ParlaMint-DK_20190328100016	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Finance (Kristian Jensen): Bill no. L 216 (Proposal for a Law amending the Budget Act. Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration (Inger Støjberg): Bill No. L 217 (Proposal for a law amending the law on basic integration training (IGU) and the law on employers' training contributions. Minister for Education (Merete Riisager): Bill No. L 218 (Proposal for a law amending the law on free schools and private primary schools, etc., the law on post-schools and free vocational schools, and the law on private institutions for upper secondary education. Minister for Health (Ellen Trane Nørby): Bill no. L 219 (Proposal for a Law amending the Health Act, Law on access to health care and compensation and Law on doctors and dentists responsible for business. Minister for Fisheries and Equal Opportunities (Eva Kjer Hansen): Bill No. L 220 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Fisheries.(Auction, etc.) of fishing rights, voluntary inshore fishing marks and digitised fisheries controls). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). Members of the Folketing Pernille Schnoor (ALT) and others I have been informed that they wish to withdraw the following proposals: proposals for a parliamentary resolution on mandatory calorie labelling in fast food restaurants, cafes, etc. B86). Does anyone wish to include this motion for a resolution? As this is not the case, the motion for a resolution has lapsed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328100157	The matter entered in item 2 of the agenda can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328100208	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328100234	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 106 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328100305	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328100324	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 82 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 23 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The proposal has been adopted and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328100352	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328100408	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 91 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), against 14 (EL and ALT), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328100440	The debate is primarily about the proposed amendment. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendment is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328100504	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 adopted by the Minister for Employment. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328100513	The debate then concerns the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the bill? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328100524	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 96 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 8 (EL), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328100551	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328100608	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 92 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV and KF) voted against 13 (EL and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328100633	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328100656	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of voting 55 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 23 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 28 (S). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328100730	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328100750	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 14 (EL and ALT), against 82 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions were 9 (RV and SF). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328100822	The debate is open, but we will wait a moment with the rapporteur, until people who are not supposed to be here have left the Chamber. We are about to start the first reading, so we need to be calm now. Here you go, Mrs. Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328100933	Thank you. Technological developments and the Internet have contributed very well, but it has also had the consequence that it has become easier for criminals. It has become a brand new platform for criminals that through fake profiles can run their shady business, while the rest of us can only passively look with from the sidebar. The provisions of the Code of Procedure on agent activities have last been amended in 2003 and since 2003 a great deal has happened. Facebook and other digital platforms have become an established part of our communication, and since 2003 we have not managed to create the necessary framework for police opportunities so that they, on an equal footing with criminals, can act on the Internet and fight crime, and that is why we in the Social Democratic Party welcome the proposal here. It is contrary to the sense of justice when criminals can sell drugs and weapons without the police being able to intervene; the police alone can stand by and watch from the sidelines. I find it frustrating and worrying when paedophiles use the Internet's special so-called back entrances to access child pornography. Last year, at the same time as now, it emerged that several hundred Danes were a member of a hidden Internet forum for paedophiles, and in this connection we had the Minister in consultation. Since then, we have been looking forward to presenting the Minister's initiatives and work on extending police investigation opportunities when it comes to crime on the Internet, and this has resulted in two concrete proposals, and these are the ones we are discussing here today. Firstly, it is a question of extending police access to the use of agents in the investigation of child pornography, heeling, drug trafficking and weapons when the offences are committed on the Internet, and secondly, it is a question of extending the circle of those who are able to carry out the agency. The aim is to ensure a good use of the staff resources available to the police. It has to be said here that the police, especially in recent years, have begun to employ some other professional groups than those who have been trained as police officers, and it has to be the case that an IT-trained person who is working on IT-crime should also have this authority. Social democracy is positive towards both elements, but it is necessary to take special account of the risks inherent in the integrity of the police and, as the draft law also shows, there is a specific risk that the police will increase the extent or gravity of criminal offences when they are actively involved in criminal activity. But I have a lot of faith in the courts in this work and that the courts can judge whether evidence has been provided on a morally decent basis. As I said, the draft law is needed and it is gratifying that it is coming now, because it extends the possibilities for the police to be able to keep up with technological developments, and on that basis I can say that we in the Social Democratic Group support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328101250	Thank you. We shall move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Peter Kofod, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328101300	Thank you. With Bill L 197, we are closing a gap which has been due to technological developments, which has created the possibility of having contact with one another and where it has been difficult for the police to keep track. This is because we have had some very restrictive rules on how the police must be in these fora, where there has been a requirement that there should have been an offence that could be punished with imprisonment for six years or more. It has been a restriction on the ability of the police to keep up, especially when it comes to the circulation of stolen goods, the sale of drugs, child pornography or weapons, as it may be, and therefore we have been proposing to the government for a long time that we could make a change like this. And when the government then comes up with a bill that meets what a broad majority in the Folketing has wanted, then we also think we should back it up. So there is full support for the proposal from the Danish People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328101404	Thank you. We move on to the next rapporteur, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328101413	Thank you. The proposal here is a consequence of technological developments since 2003, as the Socialist rapporteur rightly said. For example, the relationship is that in North Jutland we can experience the Hælerigruppen Nordjylland as a very good example of the fact that you can go in and buy a PH lamp that has been obtained home. It's ridiculous that the police today can't expose the salesmen. Today there is a requirement that there should be a six-year prison sentence, and for example, heeling only has one in one and a half years, therefore the police cannot go in and play buyers. In my opinion, this is ridiculous. We're not supposed to protect the criminals. The police are today referred to a traditional investigation, and in addition to the fact that it requires a lot of police capacity, it does not, of course, produce the result that it always has to do. I believe that with this proposal it will be much easier to expose the criminals, including, for example, the paedophiles who are gonna go rogue there. The proposal means that when we talk about heeling, child pornography, arms trafficking and drug trafficking, the police can go in and, in popular terms, play buyers in the hope of exposing those concerned. It is important that this happens with a court order and the police do not provoke a crime that would not have happened anyway. These are the rules that are already in force today. So this is a very, very good proposal that the Left can fully support.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328101547	Thank you. And we move on to Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328101559	In my humble opinion, therefore, it is not just a minor detail to provide greater access to the use of agents in the police investigation work. It is a step that needs to be considered and carefully considered, and it is a step where benefits must be offset against disadvantages. For the risk of using agents is that it is really going to support people going further in their crime than they might have originally intended. The risk is also that the border between lawbreakers and law enforcement officers will be wiped out. I personally remember a frightening example from the time I was a member of the Legal Affairs Committee many years ago, when we had a trip to the Netherlands and were informed of a situation in which Dutch police agents were responsible for a large part of the • I believe, in fact, the majority of drug smuggling into the Netherlands in juice boxes, the so-called Sapsag. It was such an unfortunate side effect of this problem. It is precisely because of this kind of concern that the law has so far only authorized the use of agents for particularly serious crime. This has been defined as a six-year prison sentence. It is, of course, a framework of penalties, which has been a reason why a majority of members of parliament have been supported by me. That is the limit that is now being cut if it is so that only crime can somehow involve the Internet, you can. In our view, it is clear that the creation of the Internet presents new challenges in the fight against crime, just as was the case with the invention of the mobile phone, the invention of the invisible ink and the establishment of the postal service. This all helped to create new problems in terms of how to combat crime. But the question is, of course, whether it justifies the use of precisely this investigative step, with the negative consequences it may have, and whether it justifies a dispute with the limits which a majority in this Parliament has so far found justified and well-intentioned. To be perfectly honest, I don't know. I do not actually know, because if it were only a question of a yes or no to combating child pornography, drug crime and the sale of illegal weapons, that would not be so difficult. The difficult thing is to decide whether these crimes could still be solved and combated with more traditional police work without the use of agents. In this connection, I would like to mention, among other things: refer to the consultation response from the IT Politic Association, which points out that criminals and all of us actually leave a lot of footprints on the web, which can be investigated quite without the use of agents, among others. of some of the specialists in the field who have been recruited. This is something that the Danish police seem to be making much less use of than our neighbouring countries. When I read this proposal, I am not convinced that there is no solution other than to give up the use of agents. That is why, as a starting point, we are negative about the proposal, but we are ready to be convinced if the arguments are good enough. That is why I would also like to propose that between the first and second readings we hold a hearing in the Committee on Legal Affairs, where various experts can come and clarify the proposal from different angles, if only so that we can all be more enlightened at a higher level when we have to press the buttons at some point in the third reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328102006	Then it's mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328102011	Thank you. As we have already heard several rapporteurs say, in the light of technological developments, the police will be able to use agents in investigating cases of child pornography, drugs, weapons, etc., when these offences occur either on or via the Internet. As the rules have been tightened up today, the police may only use agents if the crime being investigated can provide more than the previously mentioned six years of imprisonment. It then, in the real world, prevents the police from using agents in cases which actually involve very, very serious crime when crime is committed via the Internet. There is, in fact, a lot of crime being committed on the Internet today and where it can be difficult for the police to conduct an effective investigation because there is an opportunity to hide behind false profiles, encryption, and what do I know? With the bill here, we are ensuring a more effective use of police resources, and this is actually an expression of a balance between the legal certainty of citizens and the need for the police to be able to investigate these different types of cases. As I have said, this is a very, very serious crime which we must, of course, do everything we can to combat, and that is why the Liberal Alliance also supports the bill here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328102139	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328102145	In the area of justice, we are debating some very fundamental issues in these weeks. It has been said that technological developments may lead to a slippage, which is a blow to some of the things we sit and decide in the Danish Parliament today, so a slip in the areas of legal certainty and freedom. It is about how far we can go to secure Danes and Denmark against threats that may be relatively unseen, or there are few of them so far, but which we must recognise exists. This bill is one of those that it is very, very difficult to say unequivocally no to. I think my fellow rapporteur from the Enhedslist said that very well before. It is sometimes a gift to come after Enhedslisten here in the field of justice, because we largely agree with Enhedslisten when it comes to these fundamental rights that we must safeguard in Denmark. Therefore, I would actually like to support the view that there is a need not just to say yes just because it sounds right. I know that a great deal of work has been done, so it is certainly not because I am shooting someone in the shoes that they are doing something blindfolded here. However, it is almost impossible to say no to this, because of course we must ensure that on the dark Internet, where it is impossible to get in other ways and solve crimes, we provide the police and intelligence services with the means to solve, for example, cases of paedophilia. The penalty frame of 6 years and upwards, which has previously been such a dividing line for when it was allowed to use these • what do you call them • agent provocateurs, I think has actually been a reasonable dividing line. But I do not want to say whether it needs to be changed or whether this bill is doing exactly the right thing. I simply think that a hearing would be excellent. Then you might ask: Why haven't you gotten into things properly before you get up here on the platform today? You could have just asked for a hearing a long time ago; you could see that there was a proposal for this many months ago. Yes, yes, but I am also not sure that through a hearing we will be able to say so firmly that it is the right thing to do here and now. I just think it is a pity if we get a common understanding that this area is just one where we have to say yes every time we have it in the Chamber, to make sure in advance. For the progress that can be made may be that in the future we will provoke crime in a way that we cannot actually see at all if we say yes to a proposal like this. But immediately we are positive in the alternative to the proposal, but with the great aberdabei that we would like to see how much the need really is today and which of the possibilities already exist that the police could use today. It looks just as if we in Denmark are not using everything we can today. Perhaps a better dialogue with the large IT and data companies could solve this problem, we are going to solve the legislative issue today, with the risk of a slippage. So let us look at it in committee, but there is a great deal of agreement from this point of view with the Minister's intention.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328102513	Thank you, sir. René Gade. Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328102521	Thank you for that, President. This bill is about giving the police the opportunity to use agents also in cases of child pornography, heeling, drugs and weapons, as the rapporteurs before me have also said. At first sight, it sounds as if it makes sense, since it is also the case that the proposal does not alter the rules applicable to agents, including the requirement of a court order. However, what I am really stumping over is the fact that not many of the hearings actually say anything about the draft law. All those to whom we usually listen, the Lawyers' Council, the Data Protection Agency, the Digitization Board, the Association of Justice Agents, the National Association of Defence Attorneys, the Police Union, the Reichsrejen, the Maritime and Commercial Court and the Østre og Vestre Landret have no comments. And then I do not know whether it is merely an expression of the fact that, if you say so, you have really swung up in the recognition of government policy. However, it must be said that if there were any problems in this draft law, it should be said in the hearings that we, as rapporteurs, had a chance to go in and find out if there were things we had to mess with. So it is just to say that in the Radical Left we are in favour of the committee dealing with it. We would like to examine some of the issues and issues that other rapporteurs have also raised, and if we can get proper answers to that, we would like to take a positive view of it. But that depends, of course, on the answers we can get.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328102651	Thank you to Mrs Lotte Rod. Sir. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328102657	It is quite obvious that criminals are constantly finding new battlefields. Pedophiles, drug dealers, the people who trade in stolen goods and other forms of slavery use human types, among other things. the ability of the network to carry out their actions. And there may also be good reasons why police agents infiltrate these networks. On the other hand, it has to be said that technological developments alone should not lead us to put legal certainty at risk. And I must also say that I think it was an unusually thin booklet we were given with consultation responses. However, one association has dealt with it, namely the IT-Politics Association, which states in its hearing that the Ministry of Justice has not demonstrated that the proposed extension of the rules on agents is necessary in order to combat the forms of crime listed in the draft law. But we must be absolutely sure, when we use police agents, that it does not muddy relations between police and criminals. On the other hand, there may also be good arguments for using police agents, which is why I would like to support the Enhedslisten's proposal that we carry out a hearing in which we can clarify all the elements of this bill. SF has not yet done the total calculation of what we will vote for the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328102815	Thank you. Sir. Nase Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328102825	The Internet is amazing. It has given us access to a great deal of information. We communicate globally, and it's really, really good. However, it is now also clear that just as fast as the Internet has spread, criminals have become as quick to use the Internet as an opportunity for criminal purposes. The nature of the Internet presents new challenges for the police. It is very easy to hide on the Internet and use false name and identity. Today it is also relatively common to use secret networks, and then it becomes very difficult to track down the criminals. For this reason, the Internet is used as a tool, for example, to spread child pornography, the sale of theft goods, drugs and weapons. With this development in mind, it is clear that the police need new tools. That is why it is proposed that the police extend the possibility of using agents in the investigation work. Under the rules in force, the police may use agents only in the case of crimes with a penalty of more than six years in prison. We are extending the right to include cases relating to the provisions of the criminal code relating to child pornography, heeling, drugs and weapons. Enlargement only applies to the use of the Internet by criminals. We insist, of course, that the police must have a court order in order to set up an agent business. With the change, we also provide the police with an effective tool to combat crime on the Internet. We want to give the police all the tools they need to make the Danes feel safe and secure. Criminals must be caught, whether on the street or on the Internet. That is why we in the Conservative People's Party support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328103034	Then there is a comment from Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328103037	It was just because I thought it was a strong message, sir. Nase Khader came with us. Mr. Does Khade really care that the Conservative People's Party will provide the police with all the tools they can use to fight criminals? Is there no reason at all to think that this tool might help to combat criminals, but that there are other reasons why we do not choose to use it?
ParlaMint-DK_20190328103104	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328103106	We Conservatives trust the police a lot. They are there for citizens, to make citizens safe and when they need new tools, and they do so in relation to cybercrime, they must have them.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328103123	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328103125	So it wasn't a mistake when mr. Nase Khader said that the Conservative People's Party will provide the police with all the tools they can use to fight criminals without exception.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328103134	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328103136	Right here in relation to Internet crime, they are given a new tool, and it is an agent business, and of course they need it in order to make citizens safe.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328103147	Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328103159	Thank you to the rapporteurs for the most positive speeches we have heard today. The aim of the bill is to strengthen the police's ability to investigate crime on the Internet. The bill must be seen in the light of technological developments and the increased challenges of solving crime on the Internet. These challenges include: in that the perpetrators on the Internet have the opportunity to use false profiles that make it difficult for the police to identify them, as well as using special, protected or closed forums that may be difficult to penetrate. Against this background, there is a social need to provide the police with new tools to combat both the obvious and the hidden crime on the Internet. The draft law extends police access to the use of agents in the investigation of cases of the spread and possession of child pornography, as well as cases of the sale of stolen goods, drugs and weapons when these offences are committed using the Internet. This extends police access to the use of agents in relation to the applicable rules, where the police can only use agents in the investigation of offences that can be punishable by imprisonment for six years or more. It is important for me to stress that the draft law does not change the rules in force, according to which, as a clear starting point, the police must obtain a prior court order if they want to avail themselves of agents. This requirement for a court order will also apply to enlargement, and the police will therefore still have to obtain orders and, moreover, comply with all the other guarantees of legal certainty which apply to the start-up of agency activities today. In addition to the extension of the scope of agent activity, the draft law also proposes an extension of the scope of the company which can carry out the activity of agents. Today it is only police officers who can engage in agent activity. This circle is proposed to be extended to include police officers with special investigative qualifications. Enlargement will help to ensure that police staff resources are used in the best possible way and that investigations are always carried out by people who are best suited to it. With the bill, we are thus providing the police with a powerful investigative tool that can address many of the problems encountered by the police in investigating online crime. With those comments, I would once again like to thank the rapporteurs for their contributions.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328103423	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328103436	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday, 2 April 2019. It is first the rapporteur for the questioners, sir. Peter Kofod, Dansk Folkeparti, for a reason. We need to get used to the new form, as must the President, so just a moment, Mr President. Peter Kofod. It's okay). Here we are. Here you go, sir. Peter Kofod.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328103719	Thank you for that, President. The case of Star Star and the question today is in many ways strange, as it will actually be my last parliamentary inquiry debate as rapporteur. It is now not the important thing, but it is the case of Star Star, because it is important to stress that this is a matter that should have been resolved many, many years ago. It is a case that goes back a long way until 1990, but when 159 people suddenly die as a result of a crime, because the fire on the Scandinavia Star was a crime, a homicide, it should of course be investigated and investigated very, very carefully. Those responsible should be held accountable. This has not yet happened in this case, and the matter is still open. Even here almost 30 years later, no one has yet been held responsible for the Star Star-fire, and that is a problem. I therefore look forward to hearing the Minister's answer to the question in this question in a moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328103838	Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328103843	After all, there are no words to describe how deeply tragic and terrible the fire on the Star Star was. I have a great understanding of the pain that the many survivors and relatives still experience and carry around every day. After all, we all want the person or persons responsible to be held to account. Unfortunately, it has not succeeded in finding the culprit or culprits, despite the fact that from 1990 until 2017 the Danish, Norwegian and Swedish authorities have carried out a large number of investigations into the case. I think I can say calmly that these are extensive and thorough investigations into the fire and its immediate cause, the technical conditions of the ship, the ownership and insurance conditions of the ship and the seaworthiness of the ship. The Norwegian Investigation Commission published its report in June 2017 at the latest. The main conclusions of the report basically correspond to what the authorities have previously concluded. It is therefore my view that there is no basis for initiating further Danish investigations into the matter. I just don't know what it's gonna be. But it is also important to stress that a homicide never goes away. There should be no doubt that, if anyone were to acknowledge the imposition of fire at a later stage, or if there were to be decisive new information, then, of course, the matter could be reopened. It has been a long, long case and a long process. We have also held a meeting of the Ministry of Justice, where the rapporteurs have had the opportunity at an earlier stage to come over and hear more about the matter, because it is, to put it bluntly in Danish, completely and utterly hopeless to stand on Parliament's platform and review this matter. So there are very many boxes; I do not have any figures on how many boxes of documents there are in the case. So the best thing I can say is that there is no further basis for this now. But it's equally important to say that this case can never be barred. If anything comes up, it can be taken up again. But, of course, there will have to be a basis for doing so, and the police will have to assess that as they get any complaints. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328104112	Sir. Peter Kofod.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328104115	Thank you, Minister. My first question is whether the Minister thinks that the entire ownership and insurance part has been satisfactorily investigated by the Danish police so far. And if the Minister confirms this, I would like to ask the Minister what has happened since the Minister, in his capacity as Conservative Legal Rapporteur a few years ago, was in the Chair and commented on a motion for a resolution on the Star Star.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328104145	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328104147	I think I will start with the latter first and say that I have, of course, gained more knowledge that I did not have at that time. After all, we also had the joint meeting in the Ministry of Justice, and there was in fact someone who has been sitting on the matter from the very beginning and who has reviewed what has happened here and what the relationship has also been in Norway and Sweden. When we talk ownership and things like that, the Attorney General, in connection with the return requests in 2005 and 2010, assessed that the sale of Star Star was a real sale. Furthermore, the Attorney General has also said that, even if it is possible to obtain new information on ownership, it will not in itself be sufficient to raise criminal proceedings. The reason for this is that new information on ownership does not in itself constitute the necessary proof that the person (s) concerned may have planned or set the fire in any other way in 1990 and that is also what the investigating commission has used in its report, namely that Star Star is the real owner of the ship at the time of the fire.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328104252	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328104256	Thank you. Now the Minister for Justice says that there have been many investigations in this case. We can discuss that, but can the Minister for Justice not answer the question that a great many of the survivors ask themselves: Why was that ship even allowed to sail from Frederikshavn? Well, why was it even allowed to sail out on April 6th and then burn the night to April 7th? It was a ship that was completely unfinished; painting was done on board, the crew was completely untrained - all those things. Why was the ship allowed to leave? It wasn't like it came as a thief at night. It was in the port of Frederikshavn for a good week. Why wasn't it stopped? Well, what was the explanation for that? I don't think we've ever had a clear answer. But when there have been all these investigations, I assume the Minister can give it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328104356	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328104357	No, I can't do that here from Parliament's platform. I would very much like to look into this and give a written answer. I'm not going to be here today commenting on individual elements in the surveys... what has had to be and what has not had to be... because it would require me to be inside those, I don't know how many boxes of material there are, which are back from 1990 until 2017. I wouldn't have a chance to be inside. I just note that a few days after the fire, it was then agreed between the governments of Denmark, Norway and Sweden to set up a committee of inquiry into who investigated what in the investigation. That's what you've been working on. And if you think that there are not things that are not the answer to, then I think you are best placed to ask a written question to which we would be happy to answer it. But I'm not inside them, I don't know how many boxes and all the papers in them. There I have to trust the authorities that are investigating the case. I don't have a Chinese man's chance to answer that here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328104456	Sir. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328104458	Thank you for your review. In the last month's time, like a year ago, I think, when I also sat with the Minister for Justice and was introduced into the case, the questions have just got up in a lot of numbers, and I fully understand that the Minister cannot stand to account for the whole matter here from the platform today. But what do we really do now? I guess it is Avisen.dk and Århus Stiftstidende who are driving the matter forward and who have also been good at informing me as rapporteur of what has actually happened throughout the course of the case, in a way that is understandable to me. After the work they are doing and the experience you get as a reader of the case review, it seems as if there is so much to do. I am not at all the right person to define how we should tackle this. But what does the Minister think when there is so much unsolvable? As the Enhedslisten's rapporteur also said, the studies have not necessarily been many, on the contrary. There are simply elements that have not been investigated at all. There are people who really wonder why they have not been asked. So where do we land this case? So, do we politically have room for manoeuvre in order to do something as things stand today, or do we have to wait until something that has not appeared in the last 30 years?
ParlaMint-DK_20190328104612	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328104614	It can be said a little directly that the easiest thing would be for us here in the Danish Parliament to say that we now want a new study. We could then continue to say this time and again, because things are coming up, and the claims that come up are then also being examined. After all, there is a support association which has provided some information, and then the Copenhagen Police has decided back on 8 January this year not to reopen the investigation simply because the police do not consider that further investigations could point to one or more of the perpetrators. Well, in all other cases we respect in here that it is not us who are investigators that we simply trust the authorities to investigate the cases. And if news comes out, they'll investigate it if it's relevant, and if they can see that there's something to come after there's something that can lead to further investigations. I don't think we should assess that. When you look at it, I think somewhere it must be the police who judge whether there is a basis for a new investigation. Because it's important to say that this case will never be obsolete.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328104723	There is only one comment to be made to each rapporteur at this stage. Sir. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328104729	It is clear that the Minister cannot answer all the details of such a comprehensive investigation on a stand-by basis, but I assume that the Minister can answer my question, which is, after all, on a rather more general level. The Norwegian authorities confirm that insurance fraud has never been investigated as a motive, but it is also clear that it is Denmark that has to provide both ownership and insurance. How, then, can the Copenhagen Police say that they refused to investigate the economic motive on the grounds that the Norwegian police had already done so? I mean, it really does run in circles. So what's the answer to this? Can the Minister clarify whether it was Denmark that was supposed to do so? Norway says that they have never done so, and yet Denmark refers to Norway, which has not done so.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328104823	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328104824	If there is anything I have found out in this matter, it is that, with regard to the many things that come out, about who has done what and why, and who has not done anything, it is so that when you ask more about it, you get a slightly more detailed answer. And that is also why I say that, for my sake, it would be very good if this were to give rise to some questions which we in the Ministry could have examined with the relevant authorities. In other words, the investigations carried out by the Danish authorities led to an indictment of the director of the shipping company and the captain of the ship for breach of the law in question on the safety of ships. The case was dealt with in the Supreme Court in 1993, when the persons concerned were sentenced to breach of the law on ship safety. The Attorney General and the Ministry of Justice have then, after the end of the criminal proceedings, dealt with a large number of requests for the reopening of the investigation, but the Danish authorities have just not found that there was any information on the basis of which further investigations could be reopened and initiated. I just think it's crazy if it's us politicians who have to choose to say that we know more about that than the police and prosecutors. I don't think I can offer that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328104934	Sir. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328104937	I cannot help quoting the Legal Rapporteur of the Conservatives from the debate we had on this subject for approx. 3 years ago. It was Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen said: Søren Pape Poulsen had something to say about the proposal put forward by the SF in legal form, namely that a rapid investigation should be carried out to assess independently whether there were grounds for the police themselves to take up the investigation again, and I fully agree with that. Because, of course, it was the police who had to do it. To that Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen then: When we are there, I actually think that, in the interests of the many people who have had this in their lives, we owe it to us to do everything we can to get to the bottom of the matter. That is why I think the proposal for a rapid-working study group is very good. Conservatives fully supported it. I very much agree with the Minister for Justice that this is an exceptional matter, and I also agree that there is a great deal to be taken care not to confuse the legislative and executive powers here. But I also agree with the then Conservative Legal Rapporteur that this is such an unusual case and some questions have been raised which I do not think we can live with, and therefore it would be good to have an independent look at it. It should not be a big commission or something, because it should not be a commission investigating the matter itself, but it should just take a look at: Does it make sense to ask the National Police to take up this investigation again as far as the insurance part, which has been mentioned many times and which seems to have never been investigated? So I'm a little sad that the Minister of Justice has changed his mind on this point. What has happened in the case that has changed the Minister's attitude to this?
ParlaMint-DK_20190328105111	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328105113	I think I have actually answered that question, since Mr. Peter Kofod asked the same question. As a politician, you can choose to stand stubbornly and then, if you have said something once, you can do everything you can to avoid becoming wiser or listening to arguments. When I became a minister, I took up this matter in the Ministry and asked about it, for it has been a matter that has been discussed for a long time. This led me to get an information on it, and this led us to hold a meeting in the Ministry. I do not remember exactly which of the gentlemen and ladies were present, but it was a meeting where we had people inside who had been sitting with this case from the beginning, to review: what were the Norwegians and the Swedes, and what was Denmark's task? What has been the result? How has the whole process been? Then it is clear that, when we have had that meeting, I have taken the approach that I have listened to it. Well, we could easily decide something here and say that we should do something quickly and that we should start something. But if we start something, it has to be because we have a presumption of • and some authorities have a presumption that this leads to something. 'Cause if it's not, it's just staffing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328105219	Thank you. Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328105222	Thank you. I therefore agree with the Minister that we should not sit here in the Folketing and dictate investigations, but that, if some of us get a knowledge, we should address those questions to the Ministry. But I'd like to ask you something else. It is only five days ago, unfortunately, that we saw a situation in which a cruise ship came into difficulty. If one imagines in the future that there would be a major accident in international waters, will one make another investigation setup where, as happened at the time with Star Star, the investigation divided across countries, but where one organises oneself across countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20190328105308	Thank you, and the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328105310	I would like to discuss this openly. I do not really have a clear position on that. Let us then discuss with an open mind what would be best to do in that situation. I am completely open to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328105324	Thank you. Then it's mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328105327	Thank you. As the Minister mentioned, the Copenhagen Police investigation ended another investigation of the case on 8 January, I think it was. Then it has been in the press that you ask the police attorney who has conducted the investigation why you have not questioned a key person in the case. The answer is that the explanatory statement was that he refused to have any knowledge or any role in the matter with the newspaper Denmark in June last year. I hope that is not the full reason why we have not moved on. But does the Minister for Justice know why he has not been interrogated?
ParlaMint-DK_20190328105410	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328105412	What I know about that case is that the support association claimed that there should be a new proof in the form of a sound-recorded conversation. The relevant people have then rejected the fact that the conversation has taken place and there is no record of it either. That decision has then been appealed to the U.S. Attorney's Office for a ruling, and then we have to wait for what the DA says.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328105437	Thank you. There are no further comments or questions to the Minister. Then we begin the debate itself. The draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Peter Kofod.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328105456	Thank you. The last time we discussed the case of Star Stars in the Danish Parliament was when SF had tabled a motion for a resolution to set up an independent working group to look into the matter. At that time we were in a situation in which the then Left Government could rely on the fact that they were in the course of a major Commission study in Norway and that, out of respect for the work already under way, we would wait for new initiatives from Denmark to be taken. One simply wanted to see what the Norwegians found. Now we are in the situation that the Norwegians are then finished.They have been it for some time and the important thing here is to understand that what the Norwegians have been working on does not affect what originally in the nation agreement between Denmark, Norway and Sweden became a Danish area to investigate, namely ownership and insurance relations. Why is this interesting for this case? It is because for quite a number of years it has been wondering whether it is precisely here, in the ownership and insurance conditions, in the economics, that the motives for the assassination imposed must be found. That is why it is important to find out. Insurance fraud has never been investigated as a possible motive. This was confirmed by the then Minister for Justice, Mrs Karen Hækkerup, years ago, just as the current Minister has confirmed it here before the Danish Parliament. Nor has Norway, with their investigations, investigated that track, as the Norwegian police have, as I know, not drawn on information that the Danish police could hold, as it has not had an interest in the Norwegian Commission study. That whole part of the case is therefore unsolved. When I had called this question in due course, I had the hope that this could be the last time we had to have a question about Star Star and that I was able to convince a majority of my colleagues here at Christiansborg that we should now put a final end to this matter by launching what the SF proposed years ago, precisely what the current Minister of Justice thought was a fantastic idea at that time. But even I can get hit by the mathematics. I can also count, and that also means that here and now there is no majority that I had hoped could be created, unfortunately. I have therefore spoken to various rapporteurs and also to the Minister, after having been called for the question, about how we can organise a proposal for adoption, and I might as well say that this is not often the case, but we have been in a dilemma in this matter, in relation to what we should do with the proposal for adoption. Sometimes you can have a desire to be able to mean everything right, and so can you. The problem is only if there are no 90 mandates to stand behind it, and unfortunately there are not in this case. We would therefore like to make the following proposals for adoption on behalf of the government parties, the Social Democrats, the Danish People's Party, the Enhedslisten and the SF, and others are also welcome to join. Suggested adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the assassination of the Stare Star on the night of 7 April 1990, when 159 adults and children died, is still unsolved. It is, first and foremost, deeply painful for the many survivors, but also for society as a whole, that it has not yet been possible to find and punish those responsible for the biggest assassination in Scandinavia after the Second World War. The responsibility for such a crime shall never be barred and, if new information is provided to the police in the case, it shall continue to be assessed for possible investigation for investigation purposes. V 85). I could stand here and use my speaking time to read out previous speakers from when we last discussed this matter. I really will refrain from doing so, but I would like to make a request, and it is to people who might be sitting out there following this debate, and that is that if you know something, you must of course turn to them precisely because this type of case is not barred. Then it's better to step forward than it is to sit and burn inside with it. And before we move on to the questions, I would like to thank Mr. Søren Søndergaard and Mr. Karsten Hønge for their commitment to this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328105951	Thank you. Then there are a few comments. Sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328105955	I would like to thank you for that and say the same thing. There has certainly been a need for this. That's right, sir. Peter Kofod says that this statement is relatively broad and mild, but it has the great advantage that it doesn't shut this case down. It has the great advantage that it does not say in any way that things are sufficiently exhausted, but that there is still room for new information, to the extent that there is new information, that the matter can be dealt with, and there will certainly be. But I'd just like to ask, sir. Peter Kofod confirms that this proposal for adoption does not mean, for example. After a forthcoming parliamentary elections, the proposal to set up an independent inquiry to see if there is anything in which the police could further investigate prevents such a majority from taking place, but on the contrary it may be one of the new things mentioned in the proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328110108	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328110110	I can confirm that, sir. Søren Søndergaard asks. That is how I read the proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328110116	Thank you. Sir. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328110119	I would like to start by thanking the Danish People's Party for having called this question at all, so what I am saying now must not be misunderstood, because we are also on the same team here. But when we are not a co-author of the proposal for adoption, it is because we think it is almost self-evident. If there is any new information on the matter, then we must assume that the matter will be reopened in any case, whereas we have a concern that the years will pass. The challenge here is, of course, that some of the witnesses that it would be extremely important to be able to interrogate, and by the way, some of the people who may, perhaps not guilty, have reached a considerable age, and therefore if at some point, and I will tell you why we at least also think that we should make a very fast-working independent investigation, it is therefore urgent if we are to be able to reach the police at all to investigate the matter afterwards. Is this a consideration that the Danish People's Party has also made?
ParlaMint-DK_20190328110218	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328110220	A brief answer to the question is: Yes, it is. This is almost 30 years ago, and it goes without saying that there are a great many involved in this matter which, as Mr. Martin Lidegaard says that he has reached a certain age, which means that something has to happen soon. I fully agree with that. Sir. Martin Lidegaard does not say anything in his statement that is wrong, so I fully agree. It just takes 90 seats, which is why I can look back at Mr. Martin Lidegaard and say that when we come at some point on the other side of a parliamentary election, and if it had to be so, much against the expectation that the electorate will give a red block majority, then one could imagine that some of the parties that would then either be part of a government or form a parliamentary basis for a government remembered this matter when one got there and hopefully achieved more success with it than we have had in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328110313	Thank you. There are no more comments. Then it is Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328110327	I would also like to thank the Danish People's Party for having called this question debate. It is a very serious offence and accident in Danish history that we are dealing with here today, and it deserves us not to forget it. The case of the Star Star is still a black shadow over Danish legal history. Those responsible have not been held accountable, and relatives of victims are still left with a sense of injustice and impotence. Such serious cases must never become obsolete, and our authorities must constantly focus on whether new technology, new tracks, new statements or other things can contribute to the investigation. Fortunately, it is my impression, not least at the back of the meeting we had in the Ministry of Justice, that the Danish authorities share that view. If there were to be new tracks that could be investigated or new methods that could be used backwards, there would be a great deal of hunger on the part of our police to get to the bottom of the matter and to put the person or persons responsible to account. As I said, I think it is excellent that today we have a question debate which sends the very clear signal to the victims, the relatives and others who may have been involved in the fire at Star Star, that the matter has not been forgotten. We cannot and must not launch investigations into the police in specific cases from the parliamentary platform, but, as the previous rapporteur also mentioned, this is not the same as not having to consult the police with any tips and not asking the authorities to look at any clues where discussions might arise as to whether they have been followed. So I think we should certainly get to grips with that. With the debate here today, we remember the victims and we say clearly that the matter has not been forgotten. That is why we also agree with the proposal for adoption, which we fully endorse from the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328110545	Thank you. Sir. Søren Søndergaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328110549	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. When we discussed this last time, one of the arguments on the part of the Social Democratic Party was that the SF's proposals were not followed precisely by a Norwegian study. Well, maybe we didn't think you had to wait for it, but okay, that was an argument. The Norwegian study has now been completed and we can see that there has been no study in relation to the track on insurance fraud. Those persons who could be involved have not been questioned, etc. And now the Socialist rapporteur can hear that there is a wide range of parties, that is, at least the Danish People's Party, the Alternative... I certainly take the view of the Radical Left, the SF and the Enhedslisten, who say that perhaps we should look back on the proposal that the SF had. And then I would just like to ask the Socialist rapporteur whether the Socialist rapporteur will enter into negotiations on what is not a whole study, but is a debate on the fact that there are some independent people looking at this matter to see if anything has been overlooked, so that a call can be made to the police. Will the Socialist rapporteur take a positive view of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20190328110658	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328110702	May I not say at the outset that this matter is simply too important, too important, for us to make contradictions. Well, I think that everyone in this Parliament Hall, hopefully, has an interest in us getting to the bottom of it, and if there is any trace that has not been investigated and that can be investigated, then of course it has to be addressed. It is just to say that I simply think the matter is too important for us to make it a political battleground. At the back of the debate that we had last about SF's proposal, it is quite true that we put forward that we just saw what came out of the Norwegian study, so we did not launch parallel tracks. Since then, we have been to a very informative meeting of the Ministry of Justice, and it was certainly an eye-opener for me, in relation to how deep you have been down in it, including in some of the tracks that were raised when we had the debate in connection with the motion for a resolution. But we are open and just to give that indication, I would say that if there is the least that the police can go ahead with, then they must do so and whether it is in one or the other or the third form is subordinate to me. The important thing is that if there is a corner that the police can tackle, new technology arises, there are some witnesses who appear and say that they have new knowledge, which the police can also see an idea of investigating and where they think they have not been, then we must immediately initiate investigations into it. And I do not think we should do that on the part of the Folketing, I believe that the authorities should do that on their own, and I have faith in them too.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328110831	Thank you. Sir. Martin Lidegaard. No, sir. Søren Søndergaard. You just have to remember to get in. Sir. Søren Søndergaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328110837	I'm sorry, but I've gotten into it. Well, then the system doesn't work. But here you go. ) There is something wrong with the Rules of Procedure here, I think I cannot have the floor again! Do you want me to sit down? No, no, it just wasn't on the screen here. But here you go. ) Then I only have 12 seconds left! We'll be flexible. ) I just want to thank the Socialist rapporteur for being positive about this, because it is precisely because we are not going to make this a political matter, that when there are doubts about relatives, relatives and political systems, it is a good idea to find some who are independent, to take a fresh look at things and make a recommendation. And that is what at least the Danish People's Party, the alternative, radicals, SF and Enhedslisten and perhaps also the Liberal Alliance think is a good idea and has expressed here today. And we will be pleased if the Social Democrats will also be positive about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328110943	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328110946	Well, I can just repeat that I find that in relation to it there is a massive hunger in the authorities. I think in police language it says that it would be a big deal to get if you could be the police unit or policeman who solved this. There's a lot of attention to this case and a desire to, if you can get to the very least, then go ahead with it. And we share that view politically.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328111008	Thank you. Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328111014	Thank you. I fully agree with the rapporteur that this is such a matter where there is so much at stake and there are so many victims that we must keep our tongues straight and try to keep our political voices together. I would also like to say frankly that I do not subscribe to any great conspiracy theory in relation to the role of the police in this, that there is being hidden or covered or anything like that. However, I note that there is a very large group of people out there who do not feel that what should have been investigated, and I shall not be able to assess whether they are right or not. That is not our job either. But because it is probably one of the most serious incidents and accidents in our history, and because there is a persistent, I would say, pressure on this case which also makes that when I look down on it, I still have some questions that I think are difficult then I kind of think that everyone could have an interest in it. I am not thinking of a large commission of inquiry to work for many, many years, or of something else very expensive and chromed, but only of whether perhaps a couple of independent lawyers who sat down and looked through it could once and for all say: what can be done is done, there is no more to come after. So if the police are right or if the opposite is the case: consider resuming the matter. And then it's not safe with the police. If nothing else, I think we need to put a stop to that, just as the Norwegians chose to put that end in their case.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328111133	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328111137	I mean, when we were at a meeting on this in the Ministry of Justice, the impression I got was that the bunkers have been turned around many times for that very purpose, and that there have been more than that. However, I think that if there are specific places where doubts are raised as to whether the bunkers have turned around well enough or whether key witnesses have been addressed, then we must ask the Minister for Justice so that we can clarify this, also to ensure that unnecessary conspiracy theories do not arise.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328111207	Thank you. Sir. Peter Kofod, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328111215	Thank you. And thank you to the Socialist rapporteur for just stressing that I do not think that the rainbow coalition can I call it that? That is why I would like to put two questions to the Socialist rapporteur. The first question is: would it not be nice to close the case? I mean, now this case is being discussed in 30 years or so. Wouldn't it be nice if you got into a situation where you could say that now there are some new eyes looking at this, turning all the paper piles, looking at it all? Perhaps you find out that there is nothing or that there is something, but in any case you will either be able to put a sentence or be able to go ahead with something more, and will it not be nice? That's one thing. The second question is: how does the rapporteur feel about the fact that this whole issue of insurance fraud is not really being dealt with?
ParlaMint-DK_20190328111317	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328111322	It would be fantastic if we could put a stop to this case. There is no contradiction, I hope, across parties. We would like to see the trail or the new technology found that allowed those responsible to be punished for this. However, we should not pretend that, because we are starting a great deal of work, there is automatically a end to the matter. I think this is a case that, if it is not solved, will continue to hang like a court mystery for a long time. I just don't think you should conclude that as long as we start a job, that's the end of it. In relation to insurance fraud: That was the clue that was pointed out at the meeting of the Ministry of Justice that has been dug in, even several times. Anyway, if there is any new information, I think we should have it sent to the Justice Department immediately to ensure that the police work with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328111424	Thank you. Sir. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328111429	I was presented with the proposal for adoption here immediately before our debate, and I would like to say from the point of view of the Alternative, in line with what all other rapporteurs also say, that this should not be politicised, so we would like to support the text. I would also like to repeat that it is so very difficult for me to see what kind of barrier we have here in the community sitting around the tables in order to do what Mr. Martin Lidegaard says, namely effect the demand from SF from some years ago. Quickly, efficiently and impartially, because I will also discuss this in my rapporteur's speech and I will not subscribe to any conspiracy theory either. But I think it must be difficult for a minister no matter what to decide that this should be done 30 years later across all kinds of authorities. There are many who suddenly have to look over the shoulder, and there are many who have been in play and have done some professional work that may be compromised by a new investigation. Then I just have very great respect for it, because it must be very difficult to sit as a minister and make this decision, and therefore it might be interesting to use the text of the adoption to lift a community to get someone to look at it impartially. The rapporteur has already replied that this is not something that is seen as an opportunity on the part of the Socialist Group. But I still find it hard to see why it shouldn't be possible right now. to decide to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328111545	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328111549	We certainly do not deny that the bunkers can be looked through again. After all, there are some officials who have worked on these matters, and there have also been others, because it is not the case that there is only one authority dealing with this. Then there are new places where it can be said that it has simply not been examined well enough, then we think that it should be sent immediately to the Ministry and asked for answers to those elements. I just want to say that it is not my impression that the authorities have not turned the piles many times and brought in new people, new employees who have looked through it, sparring across authorities. And that's why we just have to be careful to make it sound like you have some bunkers, and then you put them in a corner, like you don't even care about that case anymore. It is my experience that the authorities are very concerned about this matter and would very much like to get to the bottom of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328111645	Sir. Karsen Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328111647	This is in line with Mrs Trine Bramsen's statement that all piles have been turned and that the insurance trail should have been investigated. But how does Mrs Trine Bramsen feel about the Norwegian authorities saying that they have never investigated the insurance trail and that they are referring to Denmark and saying that it belongs to us? The Copenhagen Police Department refers to Norway in connection with the unsuccessful investigation. Sounds like this trail fell into a black hole.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328111712	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328111716	That was one of the things we had a review of at the famous meeting of the Ministry of Justice. We had a review of who had been responsible for what and what had been investigated. I understand that sir. Karsten Hønge says as he does, because that is the impression that you get in the press when you read excerpts of the things that have puzzled you. But that was just the answer quite well and credible at the meeting of the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328111745	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328111757	Thank you. I should like to begin by saying that I am also speaking on behalf of Mr Seligman. Naser Khader of the Conservative People's Party. A small party cannot be everywhere at once, and there is a meeting of the Committee on Bodily Rights at the same time as this debate, and that meeting is Mr. Naser Khader went down. I should also like to say that we agree with the proposal for adoption. It has also already been expressed by the other rapporteurs and that this should not separate us from party politics. I don't think so either. There is no indication of that. The disaster on the Scandinavian Star is one of the greatest disasters we have seen in our waters. 159 people died. A major disaster must necessarily lead to a major investigation, no doubt whatsoever about it. Let me say from the Left that there is nothing to be excluded in this investigation. This applies to technical conditions, economic conditions, fire conditions, insurance conditions, seaworthiness, you name it. It's such a disaster that every stone has to be turned. The question then is whether every stone has been under investigation for 29 years, and it is of course not satisfactory that the culprit has not been found, and hence not the cause of the disaster. I do not know any more than the Minister of Justice in detail the investigations that have been around. However, if there are factors relevant to the case that have not been investigated, then they should be examined. The question then is who decides whether there are any conditions that have not been investigated. As I said, I can't decide because I haven't read these reports. I doubt that any of those present here have. Maybe it should be sir. Søren Søndergaard, who is a diligent man. I repeat, if there are things that have not been examined, then I think we should sit on the table, but that will probably require us to be able to clarify in some detail what we want to examine. It could sound like you're just doing an investigation. I guess it is hundreds of moving boxes that need to be started, so somehow we have to clarify what it is that needs to be investigated, and then we have to have a debate on it, as Mr. Søren Søndergaard said. I do not think there is anything that should be unexamined, but, as I said before, I am not personally in a position to say exactly what has been investigated and what has not already been investigated. That is why we agree with the proposal for adoption, which says that if there is any new information on the matter, they must be assessed for examination and possible clarification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328112042	Thank you. There is one point I should like to make. Sir. Peter Kofod, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328112045	Thank you. It was because the rapporteur asked the Minister such a good question in the first round, which was precisely that one of the police officers who had been sitting with this case, to the question whether a particular person had been questioned, answered something like: But the person himself had said to the newspaper Denmark that this was not really the case. Does the Left Legal Rapporteur, who is also a lawyer and therefore almost daily in contact with the judicial system, think that it is a particularly comprehensive answer that one has claimed one's own innocence to the newspaper Denmark? And it's a fine newspaper. I'm not pointing my finger at the newspaper Denmark. I just ask: is it particularly exhaustive?
ParlaMint-DK_20190328112134	I can only refer to the record that has been in the paper and that we are both aware of. And I have to say quite clearly that it doesn't last. I was just about to say that I was in town court. All due respect for the newspaper Denmark, but this is not a place of truth, as is the case in city law. So no, I guess it's a lapsus on the part of the person concerned.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328112200	Thank you. There are no more comments. And there's kind of a good mood, I sense. Then I can also say that one speaks as a member of parliament and not on the basis of one's profession. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328112216	The fire on the Scandinavian Star during the night of April 7, 1990 was a murder fire, which cost 159 people, including many children, their lives. As is rightly stated in the proposal for adoption, it is the biggest crime in Scandinavia since the Second World War, i.e.: For almost 75 years. In addition, that is what is absolutely crucial when we discuss the matter today that the crime is unsolved. The perpetrator or perpetrator has never been held accountable. Those who struck the match or paid for it to be done have gone free. It is not just an insult to the victims and the many relatives; it is also a disgrace to our entire society. That is why there is every reason why this matter should be raised regularly in the Folketing so that we can discuss what has been done, whether enough has been done and what needs to be done in the future. That is why I should also like to thank the Danish People's Party for raising the matter. According to the 1990 agreement between the Scandinavian governments, it was Denmark's responsibility to investigate a possible economic motive behind the fire. And here, about the economic motive, something new has actually emerged since we last discussed the matter. In fact, evidence has been provided that the insurance sum on the Scandinavian Star was doubled only a few days before the fire was doubled just a few days before the fire doubled. In itself, it's not proof of anything. But in any other case, for example. in a case where a person is found killed immediately after his life insurance has doubled, it will certainly raise a very relevant question: is there anyone who can benefit financially from it? But in the case of Scandinavian Star, this trail was never investigated. Was there anyone who had an economic interest in the burning of Scandinavian Star a few days after the insurance sum had doubled? On the contrary, the minister responsible for shipping immediately after the fire and without any investigation at all rejected the fact that the assassination could be linked to an economic motive. Or as she said to Politiken on 9 April 1990 and I quote: I do not think anyone is speculating about money with human lives. Let us leave it just a moment: I cannot imagine anyone speculating about money with human lives. Well, you might excuse yourself at the time that you didn't know about the double insurance sum. But today, and since our last debate, we have received the documentation. Nevertheless, the Attorney General does not think that this gives rise to a fresh look at the issue, the question that is crucial: was there anyone who had an economic interest in the burning of Scandinavian Star a few days after the insurance sum had doubled? So, what is it based on? It is based on a single claim by the Attorney General, namely that there is no basis for assuming that the insurance sum of 24 million. Dollars were artificially high. But this claim is wrong. Several witnesses who have never been interrogated, who have never been contacted by the Danish police, have made it clear independently that they could not dream of buying the ship at a price just near the insurance sum, even if it was claimed by the person who owned the ship. Is this proof of anything? No, it's not. It's not proof of anything. However, it is quite obvious that it is a basis for an investigation in which all the relevant persons are questioned under witness responsibility. This has not happened, and as long as it has not happened, this case will be a standing charge against the Danish authorities, which had agreed with the other Scandinavian countries to examine the question of which it is still a Danish responsibility to clarify. Murders of 159 people have no limitation period!
ParlaMint-DK_20190328112714	Thank you. Sir. Peter Kofod, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328112719	I just want to thank the rapporteur for the good speech that I thought was right. So I would like to ask Enhedslisten's rapporteur: if now power tips here in a maximum of 3 months, when a parliamentary election is to be held, and another government or a change of government is to be negotiated, is this one of the matters that one can count on Enhedslisten to take up and flag against a possible future red government that it is essential to have a look at it again?
ParlaMint-DK_20190328112742	Yes, the Danish People's Party can safely count on that is a matter that we will address. We are very pleased to hear that in relation to the coming new government there will be because the government we have is finished and has been bankrupt and so on. so that there comes a new government... everyone who has ever been referred to as someone who could dream of in any way supporting this government, whether it is the Danish People's Party or it is the Alternative or the Radical Left or the SF or the Enhedslisten, seems to think that it is actually a very good idea to have a study that will clarify whether there is a need to carry out an independent study that will clarify whether there is a need to carry out a larger study. I hope that we can jointly put maximum pressure on this after the forthcoming elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328112833	Thank you. Then it's mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328112842	Thank you for that, thank you for the floor. And here too I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for taking the initiative on the question debate here. The pictures from the tragedy • Scandinavian Star • are still very clear to all of us and are so terrible to this day and can hardly be described as too many survivors than an open wound and, as has been mentioned by several other rapporteurs, as a black stain on Danish legal history. Unfortunately, it is probably also a wound that never heals, just as unfortunately the case can never be completely closed either. The Minister for Justice also mentioned that if new information is to be produced, then of course these will have to be examined in depth. However, as the Minister for Justice also mentioned in his introductory speech, it is perhaps a little hopeless here from the Parliament's platform to take the dialogue and debate that has to be on that matter, and unfortunately the question format here is perhaps not exactly the right one to get to the bottom of it either. That is why I am very pleased that the Minister for Justice could also report that at least some of the legal rapporteurs, I understand, have been to a meeting of the Ministry, which has been able to get things clarified and get further details on the matter. In addition, I should certainly not be able to contribute further details or additions, other than to make it clear that the Liberal Alliance also supports the proposal for adoption which was read out earlier by the Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328113034	Thank you to the rapporteur, and we shall move on to Mr Beazley's report. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328113047	The debate has been good so far, and also thanks from here to the Danish People's Party and all the other parties that have over time lifted the area. In the alternative, for good reasons, we have not helped to lift the area before. We have followed the flow of slips, and I have also explained this in the questions I have raised here during our debate. We would like to support the joint proposal for adoption. We would much rather support a quick, impartial and that is what is the whole essence of my study, as proposed by several parties, SF, now DF, former Enhedslisten, Radical Left I hear too. And why is that? Here it is very important, in respect of the victims and relatives and all the people who have been professionally involved in working on the matter in the past, to emphasise with many lines that I have no reason to speculate on one thing or the other. I have no conspiracy theory about who has done what, or whether something is deliberately hidden. On the contrary, I find that there has been a great deal of work involved in this matter and that countless questions have been raised. But it's not the same thing as there's nothing to come for. This is not the same as the fact that nothing has been overlooked, something that has not been investigated. On the contrary, I think it is quite clear in concrete terms that there are things that have not been investigated. It's an empirically proven fact. That's the way it is. There are things that haven't been investigated, and you can never get a hundred percent and three hundred sixty degrees around a case. But allow me to say, when I have put the two points below, that I am not having any conspiracy theory. On the contrary, I would like to argue too much confidence in our system and our democracy, because in Denmark confidence is the most important thing for it to work as well in here as it does. However, I am also very much in favour of talking openly about this where there are problems which are problematic for such a strong and trusted democracy as we have. Because if a system is to investigate itself if a party is to investigate itself if an institution is to examine itself for 30 years, or a minister, as I said before, regardless of party color, it could be one of the Alternative who sat as a minister and was responsible for the area here, and if it were me, then I would really feel a yoke on my shoulders if I were to set up a study, whether it was small or large, which indirectly cast doubt on 30 years of professional work back in time. Oh, my God! As has also been said, it is we who must define what the police should investigate when they have once said that what should be investigated has been investigated. No, there is not, but as has been said in the past, in parts of the population and from groups that have really been close to this case, relatives who have lost, there is a rather massive desire and demand to study this in depth. There are simply places where something has not yet been investigated. Then it can be said that there have been many authorities involved. Yes, there have been, but there are also things that the authorities have not yet investigated for some reason, because they have not considered it essential. There's this whole insurance tank I almost feel bad about saying it, because it's so awful a case but there are sometimes things at stake that are really awful and tired to talk about- e.g. that we have not examined at all this aspect of insurance fraud, which in every crime movie will simply scream to heaven in relation to the documentary things that lie and that have either not been investigated or that have come out just as quietly through circumstantial or assumptions. I simply cannot understand why we do not want to close the case, not necessarily with a strong line under which we know exactly what has happened, but close the case precisely with the eyes of independent people, so that it should not be a sitting minister who should take responsibility and then say that now I am looking through it all, my entire apparatus of authority, all those with whom I work today, the courts; I indirectly cast doubt on their actions 30 years ago. I think that this is a huge task, so I think it would be a lot to put on a minister. I think it would be much better if we, as a whole, as we have now gathered together on the proposal for adoption today, decided to have an independent group look into this matter in respect of what has happened and the work that has been done and without conspiracy theories, but simply in order, in respect for the relatives and the survivors, and indeed the authorities, which are constantly being called into question in this matter, to get things on the table that they can best come forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328113539	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328113553	In every respect, this is a uniquely terrible matter. It is unique to three reasons: we know that this was a crime committed, we know for sure; we also know that it is the worst crime committed in the post-war period, as Mr. Søren Søndergaard mentioned, and we know that it is unsolved. That is, in fact, the three things we know with certainty in this matter. Because it is so unique and unusual, we also have it up in the Folketing. I am probably not the only one who has had the opportunity to receive representations from or to speak to relatives or victims from the case, and I will say the same thing here, as I have said to them, that if there is a party that is usually on guard over the division of power in Denmark in the legislative, executive and judicial power, then it is the Radical Left and that it is almost unnatural for me as a legislator to interfere in a matter which I do not have the slightest need to assess and which I cannot get into detail. And by the way, as I have already said, I have every confidence in the relevant authorities, and I have no reason to believe anything other than that, given that this is the biggest case we have been looking at at our latitudes for decades, they have done everything they could to lift the burden of proof and investigation in this matter. However, when I, along with the rest of my parliamentary group, have come to the conclusion that we should perhaps take a step further and ask some professional people to look at what has been looked at, if I may say how the various investigative matters have been put to good use, and the claims that come from the relatives and victims are due to the fact that I find it difficult to live with the doubts that will soon be eternal because we cannot interrogate the people involved. I would like to make it quite clear that what we are proposing or looking at is not a commission of inquiry itself, but an independent group of experts set up by the Danish Parliament to look at whether they consider that there is a basis for taking up the investigation, listen to the many allegations made by the family members and the wishes they have, and look at whether this in their professional optics makes any sense at all. It is an assessment which I do not feel able to make, but which I still feel so capable of making that I think there is a need to put a stop to it. Now the Social Democrat rapporteur mentioned that there could never be an end to a matter that is not resolved, and I agree with that. But a political end may be put to us, I can say, in the sense that if such a group were set up, we would see the matter as closed when the group had come to a conclusion, because then we, as legislator, can do nothing more. That's gotta be it. But that would also be the wish we have, if only in order to give the family group the calm that is obviously not there, without me deciding whether or not there is something to be done. That is why the Radical Left's conviction is that we would be best placed in this unique case to have such an independent investigation carried out. I have only been presented with the proposal for adoption at the beginning of the sitting, and therefore I do not have a mandate from my group to endorse it, but it will be my recommendation that we vote in favour. It is not to be polemical or to be crossed, but I would clearly have preferred that we could have agreed to set up such a study group, and I hope that we will be able to do so on the other side of a parliamentary election, because I think it will serve everyone for the best, including the police.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328113958	Mr President, there is one brief comment I should like to make. Peter Kofod. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328114004	Thank you. And thank you, sir. Martin Lidegaard for pragmatism. After all, it is a great step for the Radical Left to say what has been said from the platform today, and I would like to sign for that. This is something that is most often brought into this debate, namely that it will be very, very expensive and very, very difficult and very, very long-winded to do any of it, as Mr. Martin Lidegaard suggests that I be shot in the shoes. It's about the same solution we've been looking at. So I'm just gonna ask mr. Martin Lidegaard to confirm that, sir. Martin Lidegaard talks about could be this political end or handle in the matter, is not the same as a commission of inquiry that suddenly costs 300 million. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328114044	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328114048	Exactly. So, a commission of inquiry in this case will be almost incalculable both as to how long it will take and how expensive it will be. So what I'm into is something else. What we hear from several of the relatives and victims is that they too, you might say, feel a little unprofessional about this, because they are not professional investigators either. They have then been assigned some with a more professional background to the group, you understand. But I think that what we are talking about is a group of lawyers or a couple of lawyers who listened to the arguments there and look into the matter with all the different legal acts and investigations that lie there and then simply assess whether they would recommend the police to resume the case and the investigation. That's it. And that is to say, no questioning under criminal liability, etc., as I see it with this investigation that I am talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328114143	Thank you. We move on to Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328114152	It is tragic that after 29 years we still have a number of unanswered questions about Scandinavian Star, which in 1990 cost 159 people their lives. It is beyond comprehension that there are still issues which are so close to ringing, and it is unacceptable that we have still not uncovered the possibility that there is in fact an economic motive behind the assassination fire. Was it insurance fraud that was behind it? We do not know, but at least we know that the amount of insurance was substantially changed right up to the accident, and I really hope that in all sorts of other cases it will be zealously investigated if such suspicions are raised in a case. I mean, you don't have to be Sherlock Holmes to suspect that there could be a connection. What then happens is that the Norwegian authorities confirm that precisely insurance fraud was never investigated. Norway refers to the fact that it was Denmark's responsibility to provide ownership and insurance. And what does Denmark say? Yes, the Copenhagen Police refuse to investigate the economic motive with it. I think it is almost incredible that the Norwegian police had already done so without any results. The Norwegians refer to Denmark and answer that they have not investigated it. It's all over the place. And we even know that there are people with knowledge of these conditions that, after so many years, have not yet been questioned. If it were SF, we decided here and now to set up a commission responsible for carrying out a thorough examination of all aspects of the economic and insurance motives that might be behind the crime. There is then no majority in favour of this in the current Parliament, and that is why it is good that the proposal for adoption that lies is, fortunately, leaving the door open for us to start a study later on.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328114412	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then it's the Justice Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328114421	Thank you for the debate. People here from the platform have deepened their views in their first round of questions to me, so not so much new or new arguments have emerged. I fully acknowledge that the easiest thing would be to say that we will then set up a new commission of inquiry and then they can work for a while and then we will see what they say. I think we certainly have to realise that with the many, many studies that have been carried out, one has to ask oneself at some point: do we trust that we have examined it or do we not? Let us now imagine the situation in which we set up the Commission of Inquiry which some people are talking about here and it came to the conclusion that they could not point out that something was not right here. Do those present really believe that the matter will end? I mean, if I were a relative or one of the survivors, I would never accept the closure of this case until you could find the culprit. After all, it would not be possible to live with the fact that no one had been responsible for it. That is why I am sure that as long as there are investigations, investigations or other things that come up that there are no new things that can be played in, or new people to be questioned, or new cases, there will always be relatives and relatives who will come up with new ideas about it or opinions about whether it has all been examined now and that there is probably something here that has not been properly investigated. It's in human nature. Who of us would not continue to say that this has not been thoroughly investigated as long as the guilty person has not been found? It's human. I'd think someone would think the same thing as the next of kin and the next of kin if I were left behind or next of kin. I just think that my task and our task in relation to everything that has been examined and the questions that have been asked in the course of the process is to consider: what is the basis for having more studies? And that is just when I say just as quietly that the proposal for adoption that we have today does not close the case. That says very clearly: if there are things that give rise to something that needs to be looked into, then the matter is not closed. And that is really just my business, because I simply do not accept the idea that we are sitting in this Chamber today, and then there are some who are a little more interested than others in getting this sorted out. Because that is not the case. There is no one here today who is more interested than others in solving this. We all have an interest in finding the guilty. I have just come to the point that, with everything that lies there and the orientations that I have received in the ministry, to which the parties have been invited and which have been looked at, as well as the issues that have been raised, we are not going to go any further at the moment. But it's not a final end. Then I would just like to urge, as I said in my first round, because I am not in a position to answer all the things in this case... that if you think there are things that are strange or you can ask why it hasn't been investigated, then I think you should ask questions about it, and then we would really like to answer them. But I don't think we'll get to where relatives and relatives think we've gotten to the bottom of this case until the culprit is found. And I think it's just important that we take these two things apart. I would never accept, if I were a relative or left behind, that any investigation had ended until we had the culprit. You can't think of anyone in that. But I think my task must be to say: is there a basis for more studies with the knowledge we have now? And I find that very difficult to see. However, I am glad that it seems that we will probably agree on the proposal for adoption, in which we are all saying that there is no final end here. And this case never goes away. That's the legal way it is. That's indiscreet. It doesn't. We all hope that something could happen, and preferably tomorrow, that we could find out who is responsible here. Because there is no one who does not want to find the guilty. Well, I just don't subscribe to conspiracy theories that some people didn't want it. I do not subscribe to that, and that is not what I hear the rapporteurs say here, i.e. that there is probably something like this completely disguised behind it. But it is really just to pick up on the debate, because I have expressed my views in my introduction.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328114936	There are a number of brief comments, but first I have a service information, and that is that the first reading of Bill No. L 191 first starts at 9:00 a.m. 13.00 after lunch. The first of a brief remark is Mr. Martin Lidegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328114951	The Minister is right, of course, that the matter is not legalized, but the practical difficulty in actually interrogating people can, in practice, make it impossible to move forward in this matter very quickly. I agree with the Minister. I think that for the people who are affected by this, the case will not, from a human point of view, end until the guilty person has been found. However, I do believe that a final political conclusion can be drawn from the matter. That was also the reason why the Norwegian Parliament chose to do what some of us are proposing. My experience is that, of course, for the relatives and the survivors, there is a lack of doubt and a lack of rage that the guilty person has not been found, which cannot be so much dealt with if he is not succeeded in finding him. But there is also a sense of impotence because they rightly or wrongly feel that the authorities have not examined every angle. My opportunity to assess whether this is right and my opportunity to go into the matter and ask the questions which the Minister of Justice kindly declared open to answer is, to put it bluntly, zero. I'm not a lawyer, I'm not an investigator, and I don't have the opportunity or the time to get into the hundreds of moving boxes with material there is either. That is why a dignified way of ending this may be for us politicians to ask some professionals to look at it impartially and, in other words, to agree that there is the point.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328115115	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328115119	I see it more as an argument that we have been talking about. The reason for initiating such an investigation should be that we felt convinced that otherwise we would hopefully not have done so, that there is something here that should obviously be clarified more and that has not been properly investigated or that the investigation has not found. And I know about the inquiries and letters that come on this case, but I just have a lot, very hard to see what it is that you should investigate. Then you can put a political end to it, but I will just allow myself to doubt whether you can, as long as the guilty have not been found. Because I am quite sure that if that study were to show that nothing is missing, one would say the next day that there is something here that we need to investigate even more, or that we need to start all over again or have a larger commission. I just don't think it can be expected humanly that the next of kin and the next of kin will end until the culprits are found. I simply do not believe that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328115219	Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328115222	I think that is right, as I said, but that is why we can put a stop to this politically. There are some things that are new and that Mr. Søren Søndergaard has mentioned. There has been some new information that puts a slightly new perspective on the matter. But it is not the same as being able to investigate it and reach a conclusion. That is the assessment I cannot make. For me, the most important argument is not that I am 100% sure that we can find the guilty by doing so, or that a huge mistake has been made by the police. The main argument for me is the concern for the relatives, who are victims themselves and who have very serious doubts. That is, in fact, the consideration that I would like to show and which is why I would be able to support such an investigation.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328115309	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328115313	I understand that very well. I just think that if that investigation finds that there's nothing, then we're back at the start again, and what's next? This is basically about whether we believe that the investigation and the investigations that have been are good enough and have been as they should be, or whether we need something else. It is perfectly legitimate that we can have different views on whether or not we should do so. I'm just having a hard time seeing the basis for it, and that's exactly why I'm standing where I'm doing now.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328115342	Then it's mr. Peter Kofod.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328115346	Thank you. I would like to ask the Minister what could be the worst thing that came out of an independent investigation into this matter. 'Cause it sounds a little bit like we've been talking back and forth... that it's almost a painful dental treatment. Imagine if you looked at it one more time with fresh eyes, with independent eyes. So I would just like to ask: if you did, what would the worst result of such an investigation be? It might be that they said there was nothing or that there was no answer they were looking for. But at least you'd have done it, then you'd have done something. Wouldn't that be the worst? Or are there other reasons why the Minister is thinking that we should not venture into this?
ParlaMint-DK_20190328115430	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328115433	The worst would, of course, be if such an investigation then showed that there was nothing, that is that there was nothing to come after that there is nothing we should have examined further. So it is just that I am asking: when is it then that we who are not personally involved in this matter or are thus committed to it and who have to deal with the task we now have here say stop? I'd like to say to Mr. Peter Kofod, that I find it difficult to believe that if there is such an investigation that ends with the worst, or how to put it, then we should not set up a new commission. I guess it's just a matter of time before some people want to write to us and say: well, there's something here too, and you've heard someone say that, and you must have looked at that too. I'm just trying to say that it's fair that we disagree here. I would like to stand by the goal of political responsibility, which is that I find it very difficult to see what is more; we must initiate investigations into • that is to say, I have that quite factually.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328115544	Sir. Peter Kofod.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328115547	Well, if you did it, Minister, and you came to the conclusion that there was nothing, or that you couldn't clarify anything, or that there weren't things that were overlooked, and that everything was as it should be, I find it hard to look after the discussion that has been in the press for some years on this case, so if that was what was the bottom line, wouldn't it be nice that there had been quiet? Would it not be nice to be able to say to the relatives who have been chasing this case for many, many years, because they have lacked answers, that now they have done what they could?
ParlaMint-DK_20190328115621	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328115624	Yeah, if that's what came out of it. But as I also said earlier: I feel absolutely sure as amen in the church that before you can find out who is guilty of this, there is no possibility of putting a sentence. I refuse to believe that relatives and survivors will say: now we have had this re-examined by some in another way; they do not think there is anything to come for, and then we are satisfied. Well, I don't think that's gonna happen at all. If I were a relative and left behind, I wouldn't accept an investigation like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328115659	Then it's mr. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328115703	Has the lead on insurance fraud been investigated?
ParlaMint-DK_20190328115706	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328115710	What I know about this is that, in its very extensive investigations, the Attorney General considered, in particular back in 2005, that there are no grounds for further investigation. In addition, the investigating commission has concluded that there is no indication that a favourable high level of insurance was drawn up. In other words, there has been a real trade where the insurance sum was not abnormally high, and therefore the conclusions of the Review Commission's report on insurance conditions have been in line with what the Danish authorities have previously concluded.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328115747	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328115752	It is a very short and cash question, and that is precisely because I agree with the Minister on much of what is being said, also in relation to the feelings of the relatives whom I assume we cannot do good unless some guilty people are found. But there is just the element that was also mentioned from the other side here, and that is that a political end can be put. I really think that the answers, including those from the Minister here who answers what can now be answered, are so inadequate, but the question of insurance could of course be examined.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328115821	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328115824	But one of the good things about our democracy is that one might think that there is a huge conspiracy in connection with these assurances, and I can of course feel that Mr. Søren Søndergaard can hardly keep himself at ease under the question which Mr. René Gade is coming with us. There is a claim that it has never been investigated and that we have never done anything and that it is a huge black box we look into there. The good news is that then you can ask the Minister some questions, which we will then have the opportunity to answer properly and well, and I am happy to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328115853	Then it's just sir. Søren Søndergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328115857	I am a parliamentarian, and as such I have two tasks: firstly, to make legislation and secondly, to control the executive. That's what we're doing. Yes, you can ask questions, and of course I have. When the Norwegian Investigation Commission refers to what the Danish police have examined before the documents came forward, it is of course an indifferent reference. That is why it is of course interesting what was in the documents that came forward and what importance they have had. That's what I asked. What the Minister then does in his reply to me in the Folketing is simply to refer to what had been examined before the documents came forward. I ask, of course, if you would not be so kind as to find out when you have received the information from the Danish police that this insurance sum was increased a few days before the fire. And then I'd like to read from the answer. The answer is: Against this background, for resource reasons, the Ministry of Justice has not found any reason to ask the Attorney General to review the very extensive material in the case. For resource reasons, therefore, the answer is given. Does the Minister really think that it is a proper service to the Folketing that when you ask a question, you are told that you cannot get answers for resource reasons?
ParlaMint-DK_20190328120018	Thank you. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328120022	But the whole of the hops here is that if something comes out that gives rise to new investigations by the police, then you check it out. But we must then have a new practice, in which it is the Folketing that is about to assess what the police should investigate whether we think it has been well enough examined whether we think more needs to be investigated. I just do not agree with that is the way we should do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328120041	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328120044	Well, the problem, sir. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: They haven't even been interrogated. There is, of course, a clear reference to the fact that an insurance sum was fixed which was in line with what was market value, and the reason for that was that there were three buyers who would buy it at that price. All three buyers have been out to say that they would either not buy the ship or that they could not dream of paying the insurance sum. But the police haven't questioned them. It is simply not part of the police investigation. That is the problem: we can demonstrate time and time again that there are a number of relevant people from this matter that have not been questioned, and that is all I am asking for. I'm just asking for the relevant people to be questioned under witness responsibility, and then we'll take it from there.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328120128	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328120132	But I'm hoping the investigators will assess who should be questioned in what forms. Indeed, we have seen the Norwegian Attorney General reopen the criminal proceedings, also with a view to the economic track. He sat for 2 years, from June 2014 to June 2016, and examined this part and then made a decision that the case should be closed again. After all, none of us are interested in things not being investigated. We just have to consider whether the authorities can see at all that there are grounds for further questioning or new action in this matter. I am confident that of course our authorities do.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328120213	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments, and that concludes the debate. I have to say that the vote on the proposed adoption, as mentioned above, will take place on Tuesday, 2 April 2019. There will now be a postponement of the sitting until 8 a.m. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328130000	We are opening the debate, and we are opening the debate with Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democrat, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328130034	Thank you. A few weeks ago, Denmark's Radio had a remarkable history. You quoted a new German research study which shows that every European gets an average of 2.2 years cut off its lifespan as a result of air pollution. These are extremely violent figures and also more violent figures in relation to air pollution than we have seen in the past, and this means that 6,000 Danes die every year as a consequence of air pollution. We have previously thought that figure was somewhere between 3,000 and 4,000 Danes. This in itself is an absolutely unacceptable high and tragic figure, which also makes air pollution the biggest and most serious and most expensive environmental health problem in Denmark at a cost of 5.4 billion. kr. a year. Yes, it is incredibly much money, but it seems to be a figure that needs to be adjusted upwards if the German university studies are to be believed. Therefore, it is also perfectly sensible to tighten up the environmental zone rules in Denmark, which is why the Social Democratic Party also supports the government's proposals. At the same time, however, we must say from the platform today that we do not think the proposal is ambitious enough. So this proposal does not sufficiently reduce the number of annual deaths as a consequence of air pollution. We believe that more should be done. For example: It is unsatisfactory that, in relation to air pollution, the government is bypassing the most polluting diesel cars, which are an important element in combating air pollution. It is not enough for the government to deal with wood-burning furnaces, where we in the Social Democratic Party have proposed giving municipalities better opportunities to regulate wood-burning furnaces in areas where this is problematic. Then we also find it incomprehensible that the proposal does not allow the government to accommodate the municipalities, particularly in the West region, which themselves demand the possibility of making environmental legislation geographically extend beyond their municipalities. There is a very strong wish from the western municipalities, which we think should be met. It is municipalities which are heavily burdened with traffic, both in terms of noise and, of course, also in relation to air quality. As I have said, air pollution is the most important and expensive environmental health problem in Denmark, and I really believe that the challenge is so serious that the government could usefully call for broad negotiations on the problem in order to see if we could not agree across the parties more overall, more ambitious, whether a more holistic approach would perhaps even be holistic in relation to the issue. In fact, I believe that the question is so serious that we should do so, and I would like to take this opportunity today to call on you to do so. For, as the government itself writes in its recently presented climate and clean air action, the government's action in this area is not sufficient for Denmark to achieve its objectives in relation to air pollution as set out in the NEC Directive. So there is, which is black and white in the government's own proposal, some way up to achieving the European Union's demands in this area. I think it should be said there that this is, of course, a problem in itself, but we should not have a sensible policy to combat air pollution for the sake of the European Union. No, there I think we should go back and see that there are so many thousands who die every year from air pollution and the fact that it is enormously expensive for the community in terms of health costs. So I think we should do more in this area than the government is setting out to do. But with those words, I can say that we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328130414	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Erling Bonnesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328130416	Thank you. Every morning is one of the first things we hear now... it's almost such a standard comment on the radio, the press and elsewhere... that the government is too lax and does too little. And that's what we're hearing now. That's how the first strophe to appear in the press. Then we hear again here in the rapporteur's speech that the proposal that has now been put forward by the government is too lax. And then the Socialist rapporteur says that you think you want to do something more. And then it might actually be interesting to hear: what are the Socialists actually proposing here? Then we must expect an amendment to what is now in place. It might be good to try to turn it around. Moreover, I have just noted in conclusion that the rapporteur said that it is fine to vote in favour of the legislative proposal. But what exactly is it that the Socialists are going to propose of extra austerity? That is where we have to expect an amendment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328130512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328130513	I am, of course, at the outset pleased that the rapporteur from the Left hears the Socialist Environment rapporteur every morning on the radio saying that the government's environmental policy is too weak. I think I should have that in writing and then deliver to my party leader... that's all else just a praise to you. So I'll take that with me, and thank you for that. No, we think that what is here is too lax, and that is what we think, because you go in a large arc bypassing the diesel cars. In other words, diesel cars, especially the oldest diesel cars, account for a significant proportion of the air pollution that kills people. I think we should take a look at that. I think we should look at, as I said earlier, extending the environmental zone law geographically, so that we get at least the municipalities that want it, which are adjacent to the current environmental zones, with and which, of course, is also asking for it, even in the press today. Then it is also actually the case that kilns make up a very large part of the particle contamination, and there it could be tempting from in here to make tough rules that apply nationally. But it is also the case that if you turn on a wood stove in a sparsely populated area in Jutland, where I come from myself, it is not a major environmental problem in relation to particle pollution because it is so far between houses. If you do that in Copenhagen, it's something else entirely. And that's why I think we should give the municipalities a little stronger muscle in that area.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328130632	Thank you. Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328130634	Thank you. That's interesting. Then I understand that Denmark must be one large environmental zone now, because the rapporteur says it needs to be extended geographically. The rapporteur himself says that we should look at the geography of the five environmental zones we now have. I have to understand that it must then be extended to virtually the whole country. This means that all the citizens of Denmark can then face tougher additional demands from the Social Democratic Party. So the next question is: when it is spread all over the country, are there more cars? In other words, we have proposed now, as the draft law says, that it is within the five existing zones and within the five largest cities. But I can now understand that this applies to virtually all cars throughout Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328130717	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328130718	No, I think that was a comment at the polemical end, but the election campaign is also imminent. I think that is quite clear from the energetic Left rapporteur here. What I am saying is that we should look at whether it could be extended to the municipalities that are adjacent to the existing environmental zones. I can clearly see that there can be challenges in this if we allow new environmental zones to be isolated, in other words that it can present some challenges in relation to people who want to transport themselves. I think that is actually quite pragmatic about that. I'm just saying that if there are western municipalities... Rødovre is out today, for example, saying that we want to get this protection too... then I have a little bit of difficulty in seeing the argument that you shouldn't give it to them. So I think it is not the whole country, and I think that, if you have listened to my words, you understand that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328130806	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur, and even if the elections are about to take place, we will nevertheless take up the next rapporteur, Mrs Karina Due, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328130821	Thank you, President. I'm gonna run the microphone up to man's height. The proposal provides for an update of the rules on access for trucks, buses and, as a new feature, large vans for environmental zones in the five largest cities: Copenhagen, Frederiksberg, Odense, Aarhus and Aalborg. The rules for lorries and buses are therefore being tightened up to Euronorm 6. As something new, the same environmental requirements for diesel-powered vans are introduced over 1,760 kg. Vehicles which do not meet the requirements may be admitted if they are retrofitting particulate filters, which is a continuation of the rules already in force. The requirements shall be introduced step by step: 1 July 2020 and 1 July 2022 and the third stage for vans on 1 July 2025. The control of the cars must be digitised and automated, which comes in a separate bill, but already in the Danish People's Party we would like to ask the Minister how it is envisaged and whether it is considered to use license plate scanners, which can also check for other things. A good thing about the proposal is that the same requirements are now being introduced in all five environmental areas. So the profession knows which requirements must be met, no matter where in the country you drive into an environmental zone. As far as consultation answers are concerned, there is nothing new under the sun, because, as always, when it comes to proposals relating to the environment, the green organisations are disappointed with the phase-in period and the industry is concerned and will have longer phasing-in time. In the Danish People's Party we agree with the Minister that a very good balance has been found between environmental considerations and considerations of the profession, and we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328131022	Thank you to Mrs Karina Due. Then the Left's energetic energy rapporteur, Mr. Erling Bonnesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328131032	Thank you. After all, it is a fantastic preacher to be put on it right here in the run-up to the forthcoming election campaign: energetic rapporteur. I'll sign for that. Of course, we need to tighten up the requirements for environmental zones. I am glad that has already been noted in the debate. So I would also like to start by saying that we can start by welcoming the fact that we in Denmark generally have reasonably good air quality, at least in relation to many other countries with which we can compare ourselves. Even if it's a 70-75 percent. of our air pollution from abroad, we in Denmark have some challenges with air quality, especially in the largest Danish cities. comes from traffic. Of course, we have to deal with that. That is also what we are doing, and that is why we have introduced the zones in the past. That is also why the government is now setting its feet and we support tightening it up and tightening it up. That is why we are also proposing to give the largest Danish cities the opportunity to introduce, or at least tighten up, environmental zones with stricter environmental requirements, typically for heavy vehicles: trucks, buses, vans. With regard to the older diesel-powered passenger cars, which were briefly affected, we have also introduced a scrapping scheme, so it is not like that, because it is out of focus so that there are some incentives to do so in the way of volunteering, and as a citizen you think that it is now appropriate to do so, to replace the old car with a new car. So there are some incentives on the road. It's a $5,000 scrap premium. This is a good offer to the owners of old, polluting diesel cars, which we of course expect a great deal will take advantage of. The effort in this is, as has already been shown in the debate, targeted heavy vehicles of older date without particulate filters, which account for a relatively high proportion of urban pollution compared to their driven kilometres. This ensures better air quality, especially in the largest cities, for the benefit of all Danes. I also believe that most people agree that it is, of course, especially in cities that there is concentration and the greatest challenges with it. We propose to introduce the zoning requirements step by step so that the owners of the vehicles that are being tightened up will have time to adapt. We also think it is a little important that we have an opportunity to adapt to things over appropriate time. In this way, we will give both companies and industries the best opportunities to make the changes needed and contribute to better air quality. With the replacement of the physical eco-label in favour of a digital enforcement system, the legislative proposal also relieves the administrative burden on business. Air pollution is harmful to health. We have to do something about that. Therefore, it is also high on the Left's list to do something about and thus ensure cleaner air for the Danes. We must continue to enjoy walking freely outdoors in society. That is why it goes without saying that we fully support this proposal and vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328131350	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328131355	Thank you. It is, in fact, following on from the dialogue I had with the rapporteur, following on from my own rapporteur, on the possibility of extending the environmental zones geographically. I recognise that there can be some challenges if environmental zones are planted more spotfully across the country, because it can be difficult, as a driver or transporter, to keep an overview of the rules that apply where. However, there are a number of western municipalities which have asked for the environmental zones to apply also to their municipality • Rødovre, among others. There are also other examples. What is actually the argument for failing to meet the mayors who themselves are asking for the protection that the environmental zone provides against the very heavy burden that traffic poses in relation to air pollution?
ParlaMint-DK_20190328131450	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328131451	We have, of course, been considering this. Do you have to change that? The conclusion then is to stick to the five environmental zones we now have. If you dive into it, it is clear that it is with the focus on where we have the biggest challenges. That is, in fact, the balance of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328131508	Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328131510	I agree with what the conclusion has been. I have read the proposal myself. I'm interested in what those arguments are. I just find it hard to understand. I find it difficult to understand what arguments lie behind the fact that western municipalities, which are geographically linked to existing environmental zones, are not allowed to benefit from that protection when they wish to do so. The citizens and the mayors themselves have asked for that permission. And yes, it seems hard for me to understand that you don't. There are quite a lot of good arguments to protect, for example. The citizens of Rødovre against transport pollution. The argument put forward by the rapporteur here about traffic congestion must also be taken into account in the West. It is probably the municipalities in the country that are most heavily burdened with transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328131556	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328131557	Now you can dive into a larger study of how traffic patterns are on large and small roads, also in Rødovre, which the questioner is talking about here. But I think there too, if you look at it together, that it is in the five largest cities that we have defined it to now that we have the greatest challenges. But of course we keep an eye on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328131620	Then there was a brief remark from Mrs Karina Due, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328131625	I simply have to ask the rapporteur now because I am in doubt when I hear him. Christian Rabjerg Madsen asks about these things. I simply need to get clarification from the rapporteur: is an environmentally friendly truck that travels through Rødovre and goes to Copenhagen, in Rødovre, but not in Copenhagen, or is it environmentally friendly throughout?
ParlaMint-DK_20190328131653	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328131655	I think it is great that we start talking about environmentally friendly trucks too. I think it's good to get them in. That also suggests that we are on the right track with many of those things. Then it is fine that we have also got an air package on the agenda now, so that we can focus on those old trucks, if I may say so, which have not just come this far in it. Where there is the greatest concentration and the greatest challenges, there are, after all, in the five specific environmental zones that we have. Then you can start to do many small comb studies of peripheral municipalities on the edge, which may have a larger road right through them. Whether it gives rise to it or not, these are some things we should try to keep an eye on.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328131737	Thank you, sir. Erling Bonnesen. Then it is the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, sir. Øjvind Vilsholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328131743	Thank you. Air pollution is a serious problem and it is so serious that thousands of people die from it every year. We're not just talking about people who cough a little or are a little bothered in the airways, having asthmatic problems and something like that. We're talking about people dying of it. The Enhedslisten believes that it is sensible to update the rules on environmental zones and welcomes a proposal in this area. However, the proposal before us is rather disappointing. The draft law does not provide for the possibility of introducing more far-reaching rules, nor is it possible for municipalities to introduce stricter environmental zones. The government is too weak and too small. The Enhedslisten would have liked all municipalities to have the opportunity to determine for themselves the level of ambition for environmental zones, including defining which parts of the municipality should be included in environmental zones. This proposal does not go that far. The City of Copenhagen has asked for the possibility of introducing zero emission zones, and it is obvious that the draft law gives it the opportunity. Nulemission zones can help push the green transition of the transport sector much more into action. I think that we all agree that something needs to be done to make the transport sector more green. In order to move on to the green agenda and, moreover, to the benefit of air quality and people living in our cities, it would also be obvious that environmental zones not only include goods and trucks but also include other road traffic. When we know that passenger car traffic also accounts for a significant part of the emissions of nitrogen oxides and CO2 The phasing-in is too unambitious, like the rest of the bill, and Enhedslisten would have liked the phasing-in of Euro 6 for trucks and Euro 5 for vans to be brought forward, as among other things. The Ecological Council and the Municipality of Frederiksberg have stated in their hearing response. The draft law in general bears the stamp of a government that has very little ambition on behalf of the climate and the environment. And it will also be relevant here to talk about the possibility of imposing restrictions on wood-burning furnaces in the larger cities. Having said that, however, I note that the draft law is a small improvement on how the rules are now a very small improvement and an improvement that is not moving in the right direction at all. Nevertheless, we will support the bill against this background.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328132043	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328132046	Thank you. It is for Enhedslisten's wish scenario, I think we should call it, that the municipalities can be allowed to decide for themselves which environmental requirements should apply where in their municipalities. And there I would like to hear the rapporteur if we could perhaps look into a slightly confusing future...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-DK_20190328132127	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328132128	Now I understand that the Liberal Alliance rapporteur is very concerned about what we can do for business and make it easy to get around with your car or truck. However, I am quite sure that the municipalities are the ones who are best at assessing where it is appropriate to introduce an environmental zone. So I am quite sure that the municipalities will probably not create an environmental zone that only goes from street corner to street corner, but will ensure that the environmental zones that come are relevant and, of course, particularly manageable, so that there are no mistakes.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328132207	Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328132208	Thank you. Does the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten not also agree with the conclusion, which was, as it were, in the excellent question put by Mrs Karina Due earlier, that the emissions from these vehicles, whether they are buses or lorries or vans, must comply with the Euronorms now in force for the five largest cities, will in fact be at the same low level, even if they then pass through Rødovre or another municipality, which would like to see stricter environmental regulation?
ParlaMint-DK_20190328132245	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328132246	I fully agree with that, and that is precisely why it would be appropriate to extend the environmental zones to other areas too, so that it was not only the trucks and vans that are going into the centres of the larger cities, but that it was in fact more and perhaps even all trucks and vans and, for that matter, also passenger cars that complied with the stricter environmental requirements. That's where we're going.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328132313	There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Due, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328132316	Thank you. I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur has any idea how many lorries will never drive in the five largest cities in Denmark. Because in my optics it is the case that when we have five environmental zones in Denmark, it is an incentive for road hauliers to phase out the very piggy trucks quietly and then get some more environmentally friendly trucks that you can drive across the country. During that time it's quite a mess it's a word for something that in Jutland is slave to the road hauliers to plan that this truck shouldn't be allowed to drive to one of the major cities, so there we have to take another. So that would be an incentive for everything else to go out and change its fleet to something environmentally friendly, wouldn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20190328132414	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328132415	That's right. It is an incentive for those road hauliers who have deliveries to the larger cities to have some of their fleet replaced. But for those road hauliers who do not have immediate errands in the larger cities, there is no incentive, and there would be a greater incentive if environmental zones were extended to cover other municipalities than the largest cities, so it was in fact throughout the country that these road hauliers started to change cars, and not just those who have transport to the larger cities.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328132450	Thank you. Then it's mr. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328132452	Thank you. I could almost hear the enthusiasm expressed by the Enhedslisten's rapporteur for the possibility of making new demands. I would like to refer to the dissemination of it, because the rapporteur himself mentioned it in a purely geographical way. Did I understand correctly that if Enhedslisten had power, as they have been watching, Denmark was simply one large environmental zone, and then these requirements should apply not only in the five zones, but simply throughout the country?
ParlaMint-DK_20190328132517	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328132518	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328132521	That was a very clear answer to a clear question. Then we shall move on calmly to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328132529	Thank you for that, President. Yes, of course we need cleaner air in our cities, and that is why the specific draft law here also allows the five largest municipalities and cities in Denmark to tighten up existing requirements in environmental areas. More stringent requirements must be imposed on both trucks and buses, but also as something new for the oldest of our vans. I believe that the draft law here illustrates a very good balance between environmental considerations, health considerations and considerations for our business community. I also see it as crucial that we ensure clean air, but without affecting the economy and everyday life of the individual citizen. For me and the Liberal Alliance, it is important that we continue to have uniform rules in our environmental zone municipalities so that there is no difference between city to city or street corner to street corner. I think that makes a great deal of sense, and that is why the Liberal Alliance, of course, supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328132653	Thank you, sir. Carsten Bach. Then it's mr. Christian Poll from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328132700	I mean, this environmental zone thing is kind of a funny transition solution. That is why the alternative has been working from the outset for us to continue with real road pricing, that is to say, a kind of driving charge system, where you pay a mileage price in tax, depending on which car you drive in, i.e. where the polluting car is at what time and in which area you drive. In this way, it would be possible to regulate transport with vehicles on the roads in Denmark in a much more detailed and targeted way. But since we're not there yet, we have environmental zones in Denmark, and it's time for us to get these environmental zones updated, so that they just follow fairly over time. In our view, this proposal is a necessary but far too small step. So, of course, we support it because it is in the right direction. However, it is important for me to say that we would very much like to have much more ambition into what several of the other rapporteurs have also highlighted. One might say that a good detail of the proposal is that the physical zone registration areas are converted into electronic registration. Because that means that we are really getting closer to something that can turn into road pricing over time. It can make sense. But, as I have said, we want to tighten up and I hope that in committee we can find ways of making things happen a little faster and a little more ambitious than what is in the proposal right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328132847	Thank you. There is a brief comment. It's from sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328132850	Thank you. Now I can hear that the alternative would very much like to get road pricing going. I think that's a bad idea. But it might be interesting to try to hear from the Alternative, how many crowns per. kilometers you want to impose on drivers. For those who have a long way to work around the countryside, suddenly need to look at the private budget if you have to raise a larger amount of road pricing to get to work and many other activities. I understand that the alternative comes with ultimate demands, so I guess it's something you have to bring to some negotiations if you're going to get that far. So what is the requirement from the Alternative for crowns per. kilometers of road pricing?
ParlaMint-DK_20190328132929	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328132930	Thank you. Firstly, there are no ultimate requirements. This is politics that we have been working on ever since the beginning and that is in the first version of our party programme. Secondly, the whole point of road pricing is precisely that you have different rates. This means that you cannot say that there is a high or a low rate. It can be said that what will be the starting point in my view is that we are trying to change taxes, which are revenue-neutral as a starting point. Inside it will be the case that you drive by car far from a city where there is very poor coverage of public transport, yes, then you will be able to add a relatively low price. There, then, driving in your car will be cheaper, but when you approach a railway main route, you will get a higher tariff. And if you drive into the cities and especially in the big cities, it will be very high tariffs. So it is a modulation, and that is the whole point. It can also be graduated on time, so that during rush hour you pay a higher price and outside rush hour a lower price.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328133040	Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328133041	Thank you. However, as the rapporteur also says, this is something the alternative has worked on from the beginning of the party's constitution and at least very thoroughly throughout this parliamentary term too. Then it should also be possible to try to get some money on, some dollars on, so you can say what the highest tariff is and what the cheapest tariff is. You could try to start with that. Then we've had such a certain idea about it, haven't we? When you have been working on it for so long, you must also have some rates on it. By the way, it seems a little bit funny to start with such a proposal, and then you start making all sorts of modulations, just like trying to twist halfway out of it again. So at some point it doesn't look like a bird or a fish. But somewhere it will have a meaning, because those who have the longest to work will suddenly have to pay to drive to work. So what is the cheapest tariff and what is the most expensive tariff you work with in the alternative?
ParlaMint-DK_20190328133137	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328133138	Thank you. What we are up to is to make a full-scale experiment, that is to say a large-scale experiment, in Denmark, so that we can test different tariff levels and see if it changes behaviour in relation to the existing fees for petrol and green ownership fees and such things. So there is nothing laid down in detail about tariffs. The whole point of the road pricing system is precisely that you graduated these rates and set them in such a way that you can get people into public transport where it is efficient, but have the possibility of cheap individual transport in a car where it is the most efficient.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328133216	Thank you, sir. Christian Poll. And the next in line is on the way, sir. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328133224	Thank you very much. Since our rapporteur, Mrs Ida Auken, cannot be here today, I have been asked to read her speech, which I am delighted to do, yes, I do not know when it starts this way. Every year up to 6,000 Danes die according to a new study of air pollution. It should in itself be an eye opener. Had it been traffic accidents, we would probably have already introduced a ban on driving by car. Because air pollution is hard to see, today we are faced with a legislative proposal with huge gaps. If up to 6,000 deaths were not due enough, the socio-economic costs should give billions of reasons. How many sick days, how many hospitalizations do we see as a result of this, and how much could we save by getting some environmental zones that actually work? These are the questions we will pursue further in committee. Another thing we want to pursue is the loophole in the government's proposal. We want to remove the exception where goods vehicles can meet Euronorm 6 by reinstalling a particulate filter, because this proposal avoids doing anything about NOx altogether. With the government's proposal it will still be allowed to drive around the cities in an old diesel passenger car that emits lots of NOx. This does not make much sense to us radicals. The bill should also include passenger cars. That is why we want passenger cars to live up to Euro 5 by 2022 and for trucks and buses to live up to Euro 6 by 2020 and for vans to live up to Euro 6 by 2022. We are aware that this goes quite far beyond the government's proposals, but it should be borne in mind that we are facing one of the biggest health problems in Denmark at all. At European level, it is more deaths than from cigarettes. The Government will probably reply that Denmark will meet the requirements of the NEC directive, but the boundaries of the NEC directive are far behind the limits recommended by the WHO. This bill aims to improve air quality in the largest cities in Denmark with a lot of traffic where air pollution is worst. That can only be supported, and so can we. But we are looking very much in line with many other parties today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328133440	Thank you, sir. Martin Lidegaard. Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328133446	Thank you. In the SF, we support any improvement in this area, and hence this bill. As several speakers have said, this is a serious health problem which we should be obliged to address seriously. The legislative proposal is based on good intentions to improve air quality in the five largest cities, but the level of ambition in the legislative proposal is just far too low, as other rapporteurs have also mentioned, both in terms of how many cities should be included in environmental zones, how quickly the tightening up should be phased in and, above all, what degree of flexibility municipalities should be allowed to further tighten environmental requirements. The environmental zones are an important factor in driving the green transition of the transport sector and also solving this health problem, and with this bill there is just not much speed. For us it is quite clear that the green transition must therefore drive somewhat stronger. In the SF, we believe, first and foremost, that it should be possible for many more cities to introduce environmental zones. In fact, we believe it should be possible for the country's 35 largest cities, which correspond to all cities with at least 35,000 inhabitants. Environmental zones are an effective means of reducing air pollution locally and, if introduced into several cities, they can act more as a solid incentive to promote the use of goods and trucks that run on electricity or green gas, even outside cities. There is therefore a good reason both for the environment and climate to expand the number of environmental zones. Secondly, we in the SF believe that cities should be able to choose to be more ambitious and thus further tighten the requirements if they so wish. For practical reasons, it would be appropriate to choose some steps, such as: could follow certain Euronorms. The possibility of further tightening the requirements is in fact directly sought by the City of Copenhagen, such as: would like to make it possible to introduce zero emission zones. Similarly, several stakeholders demand that work machines should also be able to be involved in the environmental area. The green transition can only go too slowly, so why should we hold back municipalities that want to be even more ambitious and show the way forward? The Ministry emphasizes in the consultation note that there must be a level playing field for the industry in the largest Danish cities. But is that really enough to slow down that development, especially in view of the fact that it will only be a temporary distortion of competition? For once, a race to the top might be created rather than a race to the bottom. Last but not least, we believe in the SF that there are now such good alternatives to diesel cars that we must pave the way for a ban on diesel cars in the five cities covered by the bill. Today there are already many electrical versions and solutions with biogas, both for buses, vans, trucks and passenger cars, so such a ban is certainly possible. If the government actually takes their own objective seriously that after 2030 new petrol and diesel vehicles are no longer sold in Denmark, a ban like this is an obvious step to work more ambitiously on achieving. The bill will bring a little green progress, but as so often it is too little. But in SF we are therefore positive about any improvement. We hope, however, that the forthcoming committee will be able to make this bill greener.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328133816	Thank you to Mrs Trine Torp. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328133824	Thank you. Years ago, Conservative Finance Minister Poul Møller said that one of the greatest challenges of the future was smoke, noise and crap. And you have to say, he's got it right. This is a huge challenge, especially in our cities, the air we breathe, the pollution that is taking place. I think we all get scared when we read that you can discuss the health effects of running around the lakes in Copenhagen, for example. It may be that you get a little exercise and sweat on your forehead and that it is healthy enough, but when you run off one of the most busy roads, you also unfortunately get a number of particles that are not good with your breathing. For the same reasons, we also see, unfortunately, that air pollution is responsible for quite a lot of deaths, as several of my fellow Members have also mentioned in their speeches. That is why, through conservative glasses, we are also very pleased with the draft law that is being presented here today. This brings a marked improvement in relation to the possibility of using environmental zones in Denmark's five largest cities, especially in relation to trucks, buses and older vans. We know that this will significantly reduce the amount of soot particles and NOx. In the government, we have ambitions to end sales of petrol and diesel cars in 2030 in Denmark and plug-in hybrids in 2035. We still have to work very hard to achieve this objective, because although this bill is a step in the right direction, we must also have more green passenger transport if we are to achieve it in earnest. So we on the side of the Conservative People's Party support this bill, which we think is good and which we think is moving in the right direction. I think I'll leave those words.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328134034	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Rabjerg Madsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328134038	Thank you. Is it the rapporteur's view and the view of the Conservatives that L 191 is ambitious enough as it stands now?
ParlaMint-DK_20190328134046	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328134048	Well, I think there could well be further measures that we, the Conservatives, would be involved in discussing, but it is also important for us to find a balance; a balance between the consideration of air quality and health and the consideration that there should also be opportunities for having a healthy business environment in our large Danish cities. To me, it's at the heart of being conservative, that is to say, finding this balancing act. So it may well be that there are some elements that could be added further in relation to what is here. But we would like to welcome this bill, which is so moving in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328134126	Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328134127	Well, I very much agree with Mrs Mette Abildgaard that we need to find a balance both for business and also for commuters who drive in and out of our big cities. However, I think that we could come up with some measures that could be worked on in committee, which could make the draft law move in a more green direction. It might be interesting to hear whether Conservatives might be able to back it up or bring some things on their own that could make it possible for us to have the number of deaths a year as a consequence of air pollution even further down. For example, as we discussed earlier today, one could imagine extending the environmental zone geographically so that some of the western municipalities, who have themselves asked to join the environmental zone, could be allowed to do so. How does Conservatives view this?
ParlaMint-DK_20190328134208	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328134209	I think we should be very careful not to devalue our environmental zones. I think we should be very careful to maintain respect for the need for environmental zones, so that we use it as a tool where it is most needed. And I guess I'm gonna have to come up with one little pill. Well, since 2010, we've been tightening up these zones three times. Every time it has been bourgeois governments that have done so. So it is fine to sit and call for a lot of action as a Social Democrat, but you have also had the opportunity to deliver it yourself without having done so.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328134240	Thank you, therefore, to Mrs Mette Abildgaard. So we have reached the Minister for the Environment and Food. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328134248	Thank you for that, President. And many thanks to the rapporteurs for a good and positive green debate today. The effort for clean air has been a success in Denmark. Today, the number of people dying prematurely as a result of air pollution has almost halved since 1990. And in our big cities, the air is cleaner than it is in many other major cities in Europe. This has been done both through EU regulation, the development of filter solutions and national initiatives, for example. the environmental zones that we have had the opportunity to discuss here today. But the existing environmental zones are nearly 10 years old. Time and technology have run a bit from them, they have been overtaken by developments. In October, the government presented an ambitious climate and air project. The objective is a green transformation of the transport sector to the benefit of the climate and to the benefit of our air quality. In the climate and air scenario, the government also laid the foundations for today's debate on an ambitious legislative proposal that modernises our environmental zones. With the proposal, the largest cities will have the opportunity to tighten up the requirements for lorries and buses, and for the first time ever in Denmark vans will also be covered by the rules. In particular, the oldest diesel-powered heavy vehicles and vans contribute a large proportion of air pollution. Their share is three times higher than their share of driving miles in cities. So it makes sense to focus on vans, trucks and buses. With the proposal, we can remove about a quarter of traffic's particulate emissions and approx. 5% of NOx emissions from urban traffic. This is something that will be felt not least during rush hour. At the same time, the government will tighten up the enforcement of environmental zone rules through digitalisation and automation of controls. Such exactly how and who will carry out the task will be presented in a separate bill, which is expected to be put forward in the new parliamentary year. Today's debate includes, among other things: asked why passenger cars are not covered by the new environmental zone rules. I would say that the government is very concerned about creating a green transport sector. Therefore, we have set a target for stopping the sale of new diesel and petrol cars from 2030, and from 2035 also a stop for the sale of new plug-in hybrid cars. We have set up a commission to show us how to achieve that objective. Here and now we have introduced an increased scrapping premium of 5,000 DKK. to the oldest diesel cars, and car owners thus gain a greater gain from scraping the most polluting old diesel hackers. Thus we put turbo on getting the oldest and most polluting cars off the roads. We must have effective environmental zones so that we get the old and heavy vehicles out of the cities as quickly as possible, but this must be done in a way that the industry also has a reasonable time to adapt to the new rules. It's about securing cleaner air. It is also about finding a balance so that we do not hit the traders' everyday lives unfairly. I think that with this bill we have found a very reasonable balance. I think that there have been good and ambitious statements and proposals that I am looking forward to discussing in greater detail. If we have the opportunity to make the excellent proposal put forward by the government even better, then of course I am listening to it. In this context, I look forward to further consideration of the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328134700	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328134704	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister. There is, of course, some kind of opening-up in the Minister's starting line, which means that I cannot help asking whether any of the things we might change in the committee procedure could be that we could meet the Western mayors who have expressed the wish to have the protection of traffic-related air pollution that an extended environmental zone would offer, i.e. whether we could extend that option to the Western mayors. We discussed it earlier. If that is what the Minister was referring to, that would, of course, be quite positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328134739	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328134740	I heard the dialogue before and was also cheerful about the question from Mrs Karina Due, too much of the traffic that Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen refers to, and as the Western mayors are rightly concerned about, is the traffic that drives through the municipalities and into Copenhagen. And the moment they drive into Copenhagen, they're covered by these rules. Therefore, it is the assessment that since the five largest cities in Denmark are covered by the possibility of tightening up these environmental zones, the vast majority of vehicles moving in, among other things. the surrounding municipalities, sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen refers to, also be included. My concern about this, and it has also been raised in the debate, and I think the rapporteur himself mentioned it, would be that if we allow 98 municipalities to decide which environmental zones they want to introduce, it would be very difficult to navigate when going on a trip in the kingdom, and so we would like to see such a similar alignment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328134845	Thank you. Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen wishes to speak again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328134850	Thank you. I heard Mrs Karina Due's funnyness, and that was both funny and perhaps right. However, if that is true, it will actually be free of charge to introduce environmental zone rules in the surrounding municipalities. Because if the traffic you are burdened with still has to comply with the rules when it comes to Copenhagen, then there will be no extra requirements. It will then be possible to do so without affecting the carriers. I share the Minister's concern as to whether one gets such a map, where there are many isolated environmental zones, but precisely the Western region is connected with Copenhagen. So does the Minister see that the environmental zones could be extended to the municipalities, since it will not be put in a carambola with this in mind that it should not be too detached? Then I would just like to ask, in the end, whether the Minister will not comment on the fact that the government's policy, if it is implemented, and if the government remains in office until 2020, will not meet the requirements of the NEC directive. Is it the Minister's ambition that we should comply with the NEC directive?
ParlaMint-DK_20190328134954	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328134955	I would say in relation to the western municipalities that I understand the concern, as I mentioned earlier. It is not the case that it will cover all vehicles, given that not everyone drives on to Copenhagen, but it will include many. So it will not be completely free of cost or inconvenience or ordinary slavery for those who have to run the places in question. So it's to avoid this patchwork blanket and to make sure that you know where you can run under which rules as a trader and as a citizen in Denmark. In relation to the NEC directive, it is said that this is of course helping us along the way with the NEC directive. But as we have also said, this is not what gets us to the point.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328135046	Then it's mr. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328135050	Thank you for raising this, it's super important, and especially thank you to the Minister for opening up to see if we can make it a little bit better. I'm a little curious about this, which is our angle on this field, so that the environmental zones are such a kind of clumsy way of pretending to be road pricing. I actually remember that in the government programme back from 2015, it said that you would look at road pricing, try to look at from the left, whether there was an opportunity to convert to road pricing. Can the Minister say whether this is something that is being discussed? Is it completely abandoned, or is it something that is thought of moving forward?
ParlaMint-DK_20190328135134	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328135136	As far as I remember, it was with the payment rings that the previous government had it as an objective until another solution came the next day. This is a tool that we think is a good way to ensure a better air in our big cities, and as you go in and hit the largest cities, you also hit the vast majority of traffic in Denmark because, after all, most people get around only outside the cities, and we hit those places where the challenge is greatest. So I would like to say that I do not have great plans for road pricing on the drawing board immediately.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328135219	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Trine Torp, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328135222	I do not think I fully understand the opposition to this opening up to the western municipalities. Perhaps I can follow the argument that such a very spotty map may become a little incalculable, but here it is a question of moving the limit on when the environmental zone begins, so to speak, towards Copenhagen. It is not all heavy traffic that is going to Copenhagen. In fact, there is a great deal that is being led along the ring roads around Copenhagen, which are just passing through the western municipalities, and the government's proposed infrastructure plan also provides for the construction of a ring road 5 which can lead heavy truck traffic from Sweden all the way down through Zealand. So I just want to hear: has it been taken into account that there is actually a lot of traffic that does not even come in through Copenhagen?
ParlaMint-DK_20190328135320	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328135322	As I tried to explain before, this is about hitting those places where the challenge is greatest and where the discharge is worst, and it is in the five largest cities. Then I fully agree, as Mrs Trine Torp says, and as others have also said, that there is also a challenge in the municipalities where traffic is sidetracked. Our assessment has been that we should put the gap somewhere, and we have chosen to do so in the existing environmental zones and have chosen to say: let us update them so that we know what we have to count on, and if we are going to have a discussion on it in committee, I would very much like to take it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328135404	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328135407	With regard to the issue of where the problems are greatest, I think, if you ask both the mayors, but also the citizens who live in the western municipalities, that they may have a slightly different view of what the problems are like. In any case, they say quite clearly that they have both pollution problems and noise problems, because it is precisely there that many routes of introduction and ring roads pass through. So that's mostly the thing about whether it's the size of the environmental zone that makes it a problem for heavy traffic or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20190328135443	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328135445	It is also a balance in relation to comprehension and where you can move around in traffic. Now we have chosen to have the border here, and Mrs Trine Torp wants to have the border somewhere else, and peace be with it. We have introduced some environmental zones and now we are improving the environmental zones, and I am, in fact, very pleased with this, including from a left-wing point of view, so that we are responsible for the environmental improvements in traffic in this country. Then we can have the discussion about whether we should expand those zones and let us finally have that discussion. However, it should not be about what is people's own perception of where the problem is greatest. We must start from where emissions and where traffic are greatest and not where the experience is greatest.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328135537	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Karina Due, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328135540	Thank you. I referred to this in my rapporteur's speech, but the control of cars must be digitised and automated, and I know it comes in a separate legislative proposal, but I would like to know how the Minister intends to do so and whether it is even considered using license plate scanners, which can of course also control other things.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328135602	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328135604	How this gets completely screwed up still stands out a little bit, but the intention is to do it as license plate scanners, because the advantage is that when you scan the license plate, you can at the same time see when this car is registered, instead of it being a thing you have in the windshield that you can move around on. So the license plate, which is the car's distinctive character, is also what will be the starting point here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328135633	Thank you. Then it's mr. Øjvind Vilsholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328135635	Thank you to the Minister for opening up and being accommodating. In view of the fact that we could find improvements to the draft law in the committee procedure, a few of my other colleagues have asked whether it could be done in one area or another, and the Minister has not been so accommodating about this. But I would also like to try, and I would like to hear what the Minister would do if we could talk about a slightly earlier phase-in of Euro VI for lorries and Euro V for vans. Could that be discussed?
ParlaMint-DK_20190328135714	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328135716	When we were preparing not only the bill here, but also the government's air and climate action this autumn, we had a lot of different models promoting such as: When is a phasing-in reasonable? When will we achieve the desired effect? When does it have the cost to Mr. And Mrs. Denmark and also businessmen in this country? So there was a balance, a consideration that we would like to take into account, by saying that we as operators must also have a reasonable opportunity to adapt. Because this is very expensive, and now that we have made this proposal, I hear from one side that it is not fast enough, that this phase-in is being made, and from the other side that one would like to ask for a postponement of this phase-in. Both points of view are entirely legitimate depending on the starting point, but there I have chosen to be on the middle balance, to take account of our clean air and to do something ambitious here, while ensuring that we do not just have to send out a giro card to all traders in Denmark immediately.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328135831	Thank you. Sir. Øjvind Vilsholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328135832	Then I try something else: how will the government react to the opening up of zero-emission zones, in other words zones where it was completely forbidden to drive diesel or petrol-powered cars? It could, of course, encourage the sale of electric cars, perhaps even considerably. After all, the government's climate and air emissions do not do that to a great extent. I would also like to know whether the government and the Minister would be open to discussing an opportunity for municipalities to set up restrictions on the emissions of particles from wood stoves.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328135916	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328135917	In relation to zero-emission zones, i.e. some heavily expanded pedestrian streets, one might say, there is once again a balance, one consideration to take into account that it must be possible to run a company also in a city such as Copenhagen, and I am in favour of having some areas where it is safer to be a pedestrian in Stockholm, London and elsewhere, one can say, and where there is therefore less driving. So I think that balance is best for the zones that we have put forward here, and not for these zero-emission zones. So we have not yet reached that point in the replacement of the fleet. Compared to the wood-burning furnaces, we have partly presented this scrap premium of DKK 2,000. for a wood-burning stove, on the one hand, we are going to put forward a rule that, when changing homes, the wood-burning stove will also have to be replaced if it is too old and thus one of the great particle sinners.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328140016	Thank you, therefore, to the Minister for the Environment and Food. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328140035	We will open the negotiations with Mr. Simon Kollerup, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328140046	Thank you. I'll start by trying to sketch up the bill as best I can. The aim of this bill should be to simplify the legislative structure in the whole animal welfare field. The bill is an expiry of the so-called legal compass of the Ministry of the Environment and Food, which will contribute to a simpler and more coherent regulation in the field of the Ministry of the Environment and Food. In connection with this work, a committee of experts has recommended that all animal welfare legislation be brought together in one new collective law. It is then the collective law that we have to deal with today and it brings together a large number of animal welfare laws into one single law. This applies to everything from laws on cloning and genetic modification of animals to legislation on the keeping of turkeys for fattening. One of the main ideas behind the bill, we must understand, is that it must be easier to change the rules quickly when, for example, new knowledge of animal welfare is provided. Therefore, the rules on animal welfare will be more dependent on ministerial authority in the future. We in the Social Democratic Party believe that it can be sensible enough that the rules are flexible and can be adapted to the latest knowledge. At the same time, it is then the Ministry's assessment that it is more user-friendly to bring all animal welfare legislation together in one single law. The purpose of the bill is not, it is understood, to change the rules in force. For this reason, most of the provisions remain unchanged. At least that is how we have been informed. I would like to say, for our part, that it is worth noting that when you make a new main law, a collective law that is as extensive as the one we are dealing with here and we have also seen similar examples of it, it is quite incomprehensible to me that there are no prior political discussions with the parties of the Folketing, but that you just put the legislation forward and that you see what is happening in the Folketing, and that you have to take the consequences of that and find out today at first reading. I do not think this is the way to do it, and I think it is actually worth criticism, and I would like to express it. At the same time, I find it worrying that the protection of animals is far from agreeing that it is mainly a continuation of existing legislation, and they have some concerns quite specifically, which I think we need to take seriously and also have a discussion of here in the Folketing. For example, the draft law rewords, and now I quote from the bill: "Rules on animals in agriculture according to paragraph 1. 1 will be negotiated with agricultural organizations if the rules are not based on an international obligation and if the rules will be of major importance to agriculture. Involvement of agricultural organizations, cf. 1. (iii) the proposal for a regulation must be preceded by a proposal for a regulation. It is possible that on some stretches it works today I should not be able to reject it; I do not have enough insight to assess it, but I think it sounds a bit worrying if Sustainable Agriculture and Agriculture & Food become the only organisations to be consulted on this kind of regulation. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe that the purpose of an animal welfare law should be to ensure animal welfare. I think there is a need for us to have a proper review of what this bill really means for animal welfare in Denmark, because the consultation answers suggest that it is not as uncomplicated as the Minister has given the impression, and that is why we are not in a position at this stage to take a final position on this bill either. I hope that the Minister will invite a technical examination of the draft law as soon as possible, possibly a political debate, in which the Minister will be able to respond to the criticisms made, among others. have been raised by the Protection of Animals. So in these words, we in the Social Democratic Party would like to call for a thorough examination of this bill in committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328140517	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328140522	Thank you. I also get a little worried when I hear that passage that agriculture, like, has to go in and look at some things in advance. It may well have been the practice of Eva Kjer Hansen and Esben Lunde Larsen, we have a few examples of this. I agree with the rapporteur that there may be laws that might seem superfluous, for example. that you have a special law for turkeys for fattening. I fully agree with the rapporteur that animal welfare must be at the centre. When I look at the fact that the last serious change has taken place back in 1991, I think it is quite natural to ask what changes have taken place in animal production since 1991, which means that legislation should be changed. When, for example, you're gonna have to do something about it. If we look at the fact that the limit on the number of animal units on each farm has been abolished, so that we can now have farms which have far more livestock than we had before 1991, then this is an aspect that I think should be highlighted and seen if it is not something that would give rise to the need to consider legislative changes. Can the rapporteur see that there might be some reason to look at what changes have taken place since 1991 when the last amendment to the law was made?
ParlaMint-DK_20190328140634	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328140637	I think it is quite obvious when you look at the years that have passed, that a lot has happened in our agriculture and fortunately for that. I also think that there has been a good development, which means that we have a modern and efficient agriculture, but it is clear that animal welfare issues will, of course, be correspondingly more topical as we make our production more efficient. I can agree with that. I just think that we, as a Parliament, must deal with the fact that if, by means of a law in which we are very much basing regulation in the future on powers, we no longer have the authority that the Minister then chooses to use, only after prior dialogue with agricultural organisations, then not only have we cut off other organisations, but in practice we also have parliament. That is why when the Minister asks for such a large tool as he does, with such a powerful authorisation law as this one, we can see some positive elements in it, no doubt about it, but we also need to be sure that the right parties are consulted. It may be agriculture, but I do not think it can be agriculture alone.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328140744	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328140747	It is good that the rapporteur can see that there may have been a development since 1991, which means that one should re-evaluate one's views on things. If, for example, I... Looking at how many pigs a sow sheep, it has risen from about 11-12 pigs per. litter up to 18, so that a sow has more pigs than it has tits for. That is why it is quite natural for there to be a problem and how to deal with it in legislation. You don't do that until now. This is just an example of the fact that there may be animal production that has developed. I do not entirely agree with the rapporteur that this is only positive. However, does the rapporteur not see that there are perhaps a number of points on which we should go through things to see whether this should give rise to changes?
ParlaMint-DK_20190328140831	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328140834	Nor do I think I said that it had been only positive, but I think it is positive that our agriculture is becoming more and more efficient as we are able to decouple, for example. a climate stress and other things, so I would like to maintain that now. But that is precisely why I would have liked there to have been a political debate on this complex, because then we would have had the opportunity, in a negotiating room, to be able to lift the developments we can now each see in agriculture, whether it is the lakes that get more piglets, or it is the cows that deliver more milk, or other developments that can challenge animal welfare. That is why I think it is worth the criticism I have raised today by the Minister and the government that this should have been negotiated before it was tabled.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328140916	Thank you, sir. Simon Kollerup. The next rapporteur is Mrs Karina Due, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328140928	Thank you for that, President. Today we are dealing first with the proposal for the new Animal Protection Act. This is a simplification of rules, and we usually welcome the simplification of rules. The aim of the bill is for all animal welfare legislation to be brought together in a law and for the law to be clearer and easier to understand and enforce. I fully agree with the intentions, but for several reasons I do not believe that the new animal welfare law is entirely in line with the intentions. For example: The problem with the Animal Protection Act has so far been that it is too vaguely formulated and it has given rise to differences in interpretation of it. On 14 November, the Animal Protection Agency, together with the umbrella organisation DOSO, formulated a consultation response, pointing out the need for clear requirements on animal welfare and the involvement of professionals in questions of doubt. I have to say, I fully agree with that. I had therefore both hoped and expected that the new animal welfare law would be a little sharper formulated, but already in the purpose clause an overly vague wording is used in my view. The purpose of the Act is to provide animal welfare and animal ethics, according to Section 1. I believe that the bar is far too low. I would very much like it to be a wording which stresses that the law applies to all animals in the care of human beings. It is the one thing that animals are living and sentient beings that have an intrinsic value independent of the utility they may have for human beings. For me, it is also quite natural that section 1 should say that animals should be kept in conditions where their needs are met, including ensuring that they are able to exhibit the natural behaviour associated with their species. I can give you another example, namely from § 2 - these are the two most important paragraphs of the Animal Protection Act, which states: "Animals are living beings and must be treated securely and protected in the best possible way from pain, suffering, anxiety, lasting harm and significant disadvantage. ▪ Here we in the Danish People's Party believe that a tightening up is in place, as we have some eternal debates about: What is it to protect something best possible, and what is significant disadvantage? So we also want to add that animals are both living and sensory beings. These are just a few examples of the amendments I am preparing. It should not be a secret that the Animal Protection Act would have looked something different if the Danish People's Party had been involved in working with it. It didn't happen, and it's sad. I hope that we will find a very good solution between first and second readings.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328141238	However, a brief comment was made. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328141244	Thank you. I think it's nice to have some of the paragraphs read out. We can look at what it says, for example. When we take § 2: • Animals are living beings and must be treated securely and protected as best we can against pain, suffering, anxiety, lasting harm and significant disadvantage. I would like to hear something from the rapporteur. Now that we know that half of the lakes have ulcers because they are fed in a way where their feed is too fine, I would guess that they have a significant disadvantage about it. Some of them are actually dying of it. There must also be some of them in pain. Does the rapporteur think that this paragraph could be used in such a way that it was then enforced that it was not possible to continue feeding lakes in the way we are doing now when half of the lakes have stomach ulcers?
ParlaMint-DK_20190328141330	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328141333	It would certainly make it necessary to investigate why they have ulcers. If it is the feed, then that is what needs to be changed. If it is because they simply inject one litter of piglets after another, then perhaps that is what you have to look at. At least something needs to be done about it, because it is painful. I have an ulcer myself, so I know it, even if I'm not a bitch in that sense. I know that it is associated with significant disadvantages and pain, so yes, something must be done about that, and it should be possible to do so under § 2.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328141406	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328141410	It's fine if you can use paragraphs for something. I am a little surprised that the paragraphs here are not more sharp and have a greater focus on animal welfare. In fact, we had a draft law on fertilisers, where the purpose clause was fantastic, but the bill was not. I sometimes miss the fact that there are some purpose clauses that actually set the bar high, because afterwards there may be some legislation that needs to be implemented. So does the rapporteur not see that we should end up with something where the paragraph of purpose was better than what has been proposed here?
ParlaMint-DK_20190328141441	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328141444	Absolutely, and that's also why I mention section 1 and section 2. It is precisely because it is one of the things that concerns me most. I think these are the two most important paragraphs, and that is where the buttons really need to be screwed up before we can say yes to anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328141458	Thank you to Mrs Karina Due. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Erling Bonnesen from the Left Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328141507	Thank you. The legislative proposal we are now considering is a simplification of legislation in the field of animal welfare, as has already been shown in the debate. Hopefully this will make the legislation clearer for those affected by it. Animal welfare is an important area I think it is for all of us and therefore it is crucial that there is clarity about the rules as well. With the change, it is almost possible to say that the many different laws of which the area has so far been characterised are being cleaned up. This makes it easier to find out where to look up when you want to find out different things in the field, and it becomes easier to orient yourself in the legislation. It is clear that we can only have an interest in all of them, and of course we also have that in the Left. The bill is an offshoot of the Ministry of the Environment and Food's work on the future legal structure, also called the Law Compass. The law compass was launched in autumn 2015 with the aim of creating a more simple, clear and coherent legal structure in the Ministry's area, and in this respect, an expert panel was set up in 2016 to assess the proposals made by the Ministry of the Environment and Food for a future legal structure. These are the recommendations which are now being made with the proposal here and which must lead to the legislation becoming clearer for those who are dealing with the area in everyday life. At the same time, rules are being added in favour of animals. For example: the rules against dog fighting are extended to a general ban on animal fighting. I think it's a good thing that we're gonna get that right here in Denmark. In the Left, too, we give priority to animal welfare and, at the same time, we want more transparent, uniform and transparent legislation, which is why we naturally support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328141704	I was able to hear that there was a lot of simplification in the rapporteur's speech here, and then the rapporteur highlighted one point where there could potentially be something concerning animal welfare, namely rules against animal struggles, which may well result in us not being able to have bullfighting in Denmark. Has the rapporteur not found something a little bigger and a little more realistic than that when you look at what conditions our 220 million production animals in Denmark have in Danish agriculture? Can the rapporteur not find another example where there was in fact something out there in production farming that might give rise to perhaps some change in animal welfare legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20190328141753	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328141757	Thank you. Well, as I also indicated in my rapporteur's speech, the purpose of this bill is precisely to simplify and consolidate legislation, rather than, as in the past, where it has been spread in many different laws. So it's more about looking at legal structures than taking a position on a lot of different animal welfare positions. And one has just been mentioned here, and one can also look at others. We have also had the debate on elephants in the past, for example, where it has been put in place. So there are a few things about it, but the aim is more the legislative simplification of it. So it can be said that in relation to other animal welfare issues, as the questioner has said, it is not exactly in this draft law that so much attention should be paid to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328141843	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328141846	No, but then there is an immensely boring legal procedure, if it is not to have any content other than a writing exercise. I think that if you look at what has happened to, what should you say, agricultural development since 1991, since the last major amendment of the law, it should give rise to a change of direction. When we find ourselves in a situation where nine million piglets die every year and one of the reasons is that the size of the litter has increased from just under 12 to 18 since the last major amendment of the law, does the rapporteur not see that there could well be conditions in production that led to a change in some legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20190328141920	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328141923	I would like to say two things. The first one is • and I would not call it a writing exercise • that you get a look at, as I have said before, a compilation, a simplification of it, so you make it more clear. Secondly, in relation to the other points raised by the questioner, some tightenings have been made on essential parts of it. And then I am delighted that Denmark is among the countries that have a very high standard of animal welfare, also when we look at the production part. However, as I have already answered, it is not in this draft law that you have to work on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328141953	With that, we thank Mr. Erling Bonnesen, and then we have reached Mr Bones in the rapporteur's line of work. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328142001	Denmark has too much animal production of 220 million animals per year in the Danish stables, stalls and cages. With the enormous amount of production, of course, there is a huge responsibility in terms of animal welfare for the 220 million livestock. And there is good reason to look at amendments to the Animal Welfare Act in the light of the changes in animal production that have taken place since the last major amendment to the Animal Protection Act in 1991. But that is not the focus of the bill at all. Fortunately, Denmark also has an increase in organic production, which takes account of animal welfare to a large extent, where cows are going to grass 150 days a year, where pigs are not being tailed and where rules and practices take far greater account of animal welfare. The natural behavior of animals is taken into account. The organic form of production should become the standard for animal welfare, while at the same time ecologists continue to work to improve animal conditions. Unfortunately, the majority of Danish food production is driven by a one-sided focus on growth, economy and low costs. Agriculture mainly has intensive large-scale production, with major consequences for animals. The consequence is that animals are treated as production units and not living beings. This means that millions and millions of animals in Denmark live under highly critical conditions. And what are these specific problems? There are more than 120 million chickens for fattening every year who live a short and pitiful life in conventional production. An industrial chicken only lives for 35 days, growing from 40 g to 2 kg. The extremely rapid growth means that the legs of the chickens cannot keep up, and this prevents them from going towards the end of their lives.The last 14 days of their lives, they hardly move and they live in huge flocks without daylight being available. 17 million minks are produced annually in Denmark in small cages. The mink is a wild predator, which has not been domestized mink breeding should be banned, just as fox breeding has been. Today's 85%. of the conventional Danish dairy cows never on grass, but goes inside the stable all their lives. And then there are the lakes. They give birth to over 30 million pigs for slaughter and export. They are under enormous production pressure, which means that in a short time they will have incredible numbers of piglets. During periods the lakes are fixed between iron hangers, so they stand in the same place without being able to move very much. They are gradually getting wounds and pressure damage, and the mortality rate among lakes has almost doubled over the last 25 years. Today, every fifth sow succumbs in intensive production... they end up dead or killed in the stable. They're fed fine food, so half of them have ulcers. For the last 25 years, breeding has meant that the litter size of the pig has increased from 11.6 to an average of 18. It's a problem when the bitch gets more pigs than it has tits. In pig production, 24,000 piglets die a day. That's 9 million a year. This is the production where most offences are committed. The crews have become large and the checks have been converted into indicative and random checks. Routine tailing is prohibited, but 97%. by the pigs are hacked. Pigs are weaning too early, and they get diarrhea, which is treated with zinc and antibiotics. In order to make industrial agriculture run, 100 tonnes of antibiotics are used per year, of which 75% are used. used for the pigs. With these circumstances in mind, we are here with a proposal for a new animal welfare law which sets out some guidelines. It could well give some guidelines that reached into the 21st century. We can see that in other countries you start to review your legislation, but no, you don't do that in Denmark. The aim of the draft law is mainly to simplify existing legislation and make it more user-friendly. We in Denmark have historically had some major revisions to the animal welfare law, and I think there is good reason to look at how agricultural production has changed since 1991 in terms of the size of agriculture, what for some livestock we have, and how they, for example, have changed. more and more offspring. There are some things in the paragraph of purpose that we are very concerned about. It is here, as other rapporteurs have been about, that agriculture is given a special status so that they can have the opportunity to look at changes before they are proposed. We think that is totally unacceptable. A major concern in this is that we do not think animal welfare is being dealt with. There is also the question of the risks of infection. The fact that there is so much MRSA in the herds in Denmark makes the livestock production we have a bomb under our health. I think the pigs should have their own law. After this bill, the dogs have continued their own law. I think we should actually maintain that the 30 million pigs should also have a law. Against this background, the Enhedslisten cannot support the bill, but we would very much like to work for more animal welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328142532	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328142536	Thank you. I just have one question. The rapporteur mentioned that we have too much animal production in Denmark. How much should it be reduced in the view of Enhedslisten? Is it a removal of the export-oriented part, or should we be so far down that we are then not, can we say, self-sufficient in Denmark? Where's the limit?
ParlaMint-DK_20190328142553	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328142556	We think we could easily have a starting point where we had our animal production halved in Denmark. At the moment, 80% is used. of the agricultural area for animal production. We are in favour of reducing the agricultural area by 500,000 hectares, so that we get 200,000 more hectares of nature, 100,000 more hectares of forest, and gladly convert to some energy crops in agriculture, and that could then continue to be agricultural land. We would like to see some organic soils, 100,000 hectares, taken out of rotation, and then it can still be permanent grass for animal husbandry. We would very much like to see you come up with a livestock farm where you feed rough fodder to a much greater extent. This could sort out some of the animal welfare problems that we, for example, could solve. see with the lakes, and it could solve some problems about salmonella in the intestines of chickens. There is therefore reason to change the feeding systems for our livestock, and we are also in favour of this. So a significant reduction in animal production will be beneficial to our nature, and this could also lead to us having higher animal welfare. And we want us to convert 100 per cent. for ecology.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328142703	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328142706	Has the Enhedslisten had any overall socio-economic calculations of the consequences of it, i.e. what it costs, so to speak, if we reduce production as much as we are talking about here, and take the other measures that then increase the bill on top of it? And what proportion of that would you make as a requirement if you were to get into the position of being able to do so after the election?
ParlaMint-DK_20190328142729	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328142732	Well, we have a climate plan that has been calculated, both CO2 and I believe that there are many pluses in reducing the agricultural area. We stand among others. in the interests of compliance with a water framework directive. The Left does not want that, and the government does not want it, but it is something that we have to do in terms of our international commitments. And we can come up with this more easily if we reduce our animal production and reduce our agricultural area. So things are connected. If animal production is reduced, there are directives that are easier to comply with.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328142803	With that, we thank Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. And then it's sir. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328142811	Thank you for that, President. We are dealing here with a legislative proposal which significantly simplifies the structure of the legislation in the field of animal welfare. It is an offshoot of a very, I think at least myself, exemplary regulatory simplification work that has been going on in the Ministry of the Environment and Food for a number of years. And I would just as quietly urge you to look at other resorts and to be inspired by them. The draft law here forms a new main law replacing the current animal welfare law, and one law should then act as a form of framework legislation for the vast majority of animal welfare. In addition, there are then a number of so-called species-specific laws that are repealed and converted into notices instead. I am very pleased when I look down through the legislative changes we are talking about here that we will have a whole new structure in the field of animal welfare. This means that, when we adopt the bill here at third reading, we actually reduce as many as 11 laws and 40 regulations to one animal welfare law and about half the number of regulations. At the same time, however, we are actually able to maintain, at least largely, the existing rules largely unchanged. That is why the Liberal Alliance is very pleased with the specific legislative proposal, and that is why, of course, we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328143005	This gave rise to a brief remark by Mr Beyer de Ryke. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328143009	If you are in the Folketing to work for the simplification of rules and that is the high goal, I understand that Mr. Carsten Bach, as Liberal Alliance rapporteur, is pleased with this bill, because now we have reduced the number of laws so that we do not have a special law for turkeys for fattening. I must also admit that I am not sure that a special law is necessary for turkeys for fattening. It may be that time has run out of it, but I thought a law for pigs was in order. Since we have the chance to improve animal welfare rules, does the rapporteur not see that there is such an obvious possibility here, so that, once we have opened a law and written something together, we can at the same time look at whether there has been any agricultural development since 1991, which should lead to a change in the conditions of the laws which we have here a writing exercise on writing together?
ParlaMint-DK_20190328143105	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328143107	In other words, we can do everything possible now that we are reviewing the legislation, and it makes sense, of course, to review everything, and that is what has actually happened. Then you can agree or disagree on the proposal that the questioner has. I would say that in reality it could perhaps be simplified even more. I freely admit here from the Speaker's Chair of the Danish Parliament that a very large part of the motivation for my personal activity as a member of the parliament is the simplification of rules and debureaucratisation. It is also a very large part of the Liberal Alliance that can be said politically, and now it has succeeded. I do not remember how much of the legislation in the field of the environment and food is being reduced over the last four years, when I have been the Environment and Food Rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, but that is a very large part. It might be that I should call on my group chairman to give me another rapporteur in the next parliamentary term, so maybe I could be able to reduce some other policy areas by just as much unnecessary rules, laws and bureaucracy. It would certainly be a great pleasure for me.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328143216	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328143225	Well, you could probably make very simple laws where there was just a purpose clause, and then you had to live up to it. If there was only the purpose clause in this bill, I would be able to go out and report a great many farmers. When you kind of look at how the animals feel, i.e. that we, for example. has a situation where 50%. I think that there is something wrong and that there is a purpose clause, § 2, that you cannot live up to, that the animals are well. When 9 million piglets die, I guess it's a sign that something's wrong. Can the rapporteur not see that there is something in animal production that indicates that there is something better to be done and, in such a way, calls for a better law?
ParlaMint-DK_20190328143306	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328143311	In the event that the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten believes that there are some issues in Danish agriculture that deserve a police report, I would again urge the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, from the floor of the Danish Parliament, to make the notifications so that we can have a legitimate police investigation into the specific circumstances and then get something done about them.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328143330	We are grateful to the rapporteur and we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mr Beazley. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328143334	Thank you. Animal welfare in Denmark has a strangely skewed focus. If you compare the free animal life in nature with the life of domestic animals, the animal protection law and the whole understanding of animal welfare have an excessive focus on creating good conditions when the animals are to be slaughtered, but much less on the good life of the animals during the months or years they live in the Danish livestock production. If you look and look with more ethical glasses on animal welfare, it is in many ways a problematic approach that we have to our livestock. The animals are production units, and the focus in animal welfare is mainly on ensuring that the animals are in optimal feed condition, live long enough until they are slaughtered and do not become ill along the way. Real well-being in understanding a respectful life for animals approaches only in certain small productions, for example. some of the organic as well as for the pets. We need to rethink our relationship with our animals. The way we keep animals says a lot about the ethical level of our culture, and for millions of animals in Denmark the level does not live up to the ethical level of the Danes. Very many animals in Denmark are treated with disrespect and very little empathy. Our relationship with animals is characterized by a strange double standard and inconsistency. Pigs are more intelligent than dogs, and yet they are dogs we have in the living room and pigs on the fork. Yet we offer pigs castration without stunning and tailing and buzzing life in cages with very little space, conditions we in Denmark would not accept for dogs. The alternative wants to launch a fundamental popular, professional, ethical debate on animal welfare in Denmark, and therefore it was good to see an attempt to create a new main law for this area. As a producer of millions of animals for meat, milk, eggs and fur, we have a special obligation to take the lead in a respectful dealings with animals. We do not consider in the alternative animal husbandry in itself unethical, but we need to consider the mechanical approach to our livestock as clean production units. We must move away from the understanding of good animal welfare as a low mortality rate and a low disease rate and to an empathic understanding of animals as individuals who have a natural behavior and a much greater degree of emotion that we have a responsibility to deal with in relation to that understanding. In 2012, a number of recognised neuroexperts adopted the so-called Cambridge Declaration of Consciousness. Here, it is recognised that a number of studies show that emotions do not require the presence of neocortex, that is, the frontal lobe, which is especially for higher mammals. Thus even more primitive animals, than we have previously assumed, can have feelings and may have a greater consciousness. This insight calls for ethical considerations as to whether we should adjust the way we treat our animals in Danish society. For the alternative, it is obvious that too many farm animals live a life that is very far from their natural behavior, that they live a stressful life, an unworthy life until they are slaughtered. The alternative wants a radical reform of the way we keep animals and interact with animals, so the focus is moved to create respectful lives with well-being and natural behavior for all animals. So the bill that we see presented here today is indeed a regulatory simplification project, but since it is about 30 years since we have last gone through this area thoroughly, it would be appropriate to raise the level, and that is also clear from the title. We are lifting it from animal welfare to animal welfare. In my view, animal protection is to take care of the basics, that the animal does not become sick, that it does not die prematurely, but animal welfare contains much stronger ethical aspects and a strengthening of our respect for animals. Even in the Treaty of Lisbon there is, of course, recognition that animals are sensory beings, and there are, for example, such beings. no room in section 2 of the proposed law here. It says that animals are living beings. It does not say that they are living and sensory beings, and that is a very important difference when we move from animal protection to animal welfare. Then there are various other points which have also been pointed out by some of the other rapporteurs, for example. The odd thing is that we want to involve those who keep animals and earn money from animals, but not animal welfare organisations, and it would be fair, in parallel with nature, because animals do not have their own voice, that animal welfare organisations will be able to go in and have a special role here. So, as the proposal stands today, we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328143840	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beazley's report. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328143855	Thank you for the draft of a new animal welfare law. We can see good things in the proposal, which contains many and much-needed improvements, but we also have problems with several parts of the proposal. First of all, I am sorry about the confusion that is taking place between the animal ethic and the animal welfare issue. It should be kept separate. Like a few consultation answers, I think that it would be a good idea to continue to have this division, because even if you have tried to make a collective law of all these things, I still think that stripes. In relation to the involvement of stakeholders, I, like several of the other speakers, believe that animal welfare organisations should be involved on equal terms with agricultural representatives in legislative preparatory work. There are also many improvements of a more concrete nature that I welcome. I am in favour of establishing a shadow for horses; it was a problem during last summer's heat wave. I am a great supporter of an exhibition ban on dogs that have had certain operational interventions. I believe, as the Guardian of the Horse, that certain horses should not be kept alone, I support the use of the possibility of making such a ban after final examination. So, on the whole, we in the Radicals are in favour of the draft, but we shall be voting in committee, among other things. seek a division into an animal law and an animal welfare law, and we want to look at stakeholder involvement before we can finalise our position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328144015	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Trine Torp, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328144024	Thank you. A clear and easy-to-understand law is thus an advantage for all. This is a prerequisite for understanding, observing and perhaps even having an attitude towards the laws that we have in Denmark. However, that is also easier said than done. I think that is something we all know about in here: every time we try to simplify something, things are also a little more complex than that. We are therefore in the SF, as a starting point, in favour of the intention that the bill should simplify the legislative structure in the field of animal welfare. But I would also like to say that we are not going to turn our thumbs up or down to this bill today, because there are some very fundamental problems in it. So, as a starting point, I think that when you do such a big piece of legislative clean-up work as this is, it is actually an excellent opportunity to involve the parliamentary parties in discussing animal welfare, because it is not something we do so often. This is something we do in fragments when specific issues arise when we have to settle in sub-areas, but such a really fundamental discussion, up to making a main law, I would have preferred it to have been in this context. There's an important discussion about this bill, and it's about the actual purpose clause in the bill. The objective clause, when making a main law, is indeed a framework for the whole law, and we do not believe that the current proposal reflects the ambitions that a main animal welfare law should have. It does not really say what the purpose of the law really is. A purpose clause should not actually just say anything about what the content of a law is, it should say something about what the purpose is. So what kind of direction you want in what you want to promote with this law is what is meant by purpose. It should therefore be more explicit in the purpose clause that good animal welfare should be promoted and that respect should be given to the needs of all animals and the natural behaviour associated with the specific species. That is why, at least in committee, we would like to try to get a little closer to how we can make a paragraph of purpose that shows something more direction. In addition, the draft law proposes a broader application of authorisation provisions, and I really think that has been said very well in the past. It may be fine to do this by allowing the rules to be quickly adapted if new and decisive knowledge arises, but there is a problem in making such a distortion in relation to the organisations involved. We do not believe that there is any factual evidence at all that any interest organisation should be given special status to others in this work, and that is why, of course, interested organisations should be involved in the legislative process on equal terms. But there is also the problem of democracy, that is to say of democratic and political control, that the wider application of authorisation rules loses some of that control, and we often discuss this when we talk about the level of regulation, whether it should be at the level of legislation or at the level of regulation. But I just think that in this area we, as Parliament, also need to be able to keep track of what kind of regulations are being made. You should not just be able to follow it in the form of orientations where you can easily lose track, especially when it's as wide an area as this one, but by getting an overall view of what it really is for some provisions that have been given. So I do not know whether we can work on a model such as the one we have in other areas of legislation, where we have a proper explanation in this area with some level range or other. I would say that the SF's position on this bill as a whole is that both the purpose and the intention of making a collective law are really good, but we are sceptical about the simplification that is happening, because it also means a deterioration, it certainly does not allow us to improve anything in any of the areas where I think it could be crucial.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328144509	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Orla Østerby, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328144516	Thank you for that, President. With L 192 it is, of course, primarily a continuation of existing rules in the field of animal welfare. After all, the aim of the law is basically to simplify the legislative structure in the field of animal welfare. After all, the law has to be seen in a wider context, namely with the work of simplification in the whole area of the Law of the Ministry of the Environment and Food. After all, the bill here has been tabled as a new main law replacing the current animal protection laws. The new Animal Protection Act will be a framework law for the vast majority of animal welfare legislation. After all, the 11 laws will be reduced to 1, and 40 notices will be reduced to 20. This means that it will be more manageable. At the same time, the draft law contains something new, namely a purpose clause which clearly states what considerations are taken into account in the law. With the bill it is clear that animal welfare considerations are at the heart, but at the same time not only animal welfare but also animal ethics are an essential element in today's understanding of good animal welfare. The Conservative People's Party supports L 192.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328144659	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328144706	Thank you. In my rapporteur's speech, I highlighted this passage in the draft law that rules on animals in agriculture should only be laid down after negotiation with agricultural organisations. I should just like to ask the rapporteur, first of all, how the rapporteur thinks it promotes animal welfare. Secondly, I should like to ask whether the rapporteur believes that the practices outlined here are different from what is happening today. Is it a new practice to introduce that it is only with agricultural organizations that the new rules on the treatment of animals in agriculture are being discussed here?
ParlaMint-DK_20190328144743	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328144746	It is quite natural that it is the farmers who have the animals and who have the production they are in dialogue with. However, if we look at L 192, there is no change to the fact that those who have something to note and believe that there are violations of the Animal Protection Act can file a police report, and everyone can. Well, that means everyone can be smart and take part in this if you want to. There is no change to that in the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328144826	Sir. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328144828	Then I just do not understand why it is difficult for the Conservative People's Party to see that in the preparation of new rules you can also involve others who have to deal with the same animals ■ it may be animal welfare organisations or others with insight into the conditions surrounding the animals that have to be in agriculture. I fully agree that agricultural organisations must be able to be involved to a certain extent, but the draft law suggests that they alone are agricultural organisations. That is why I would just like to ask the Conservative rapporteur: can the Conservative People's Party see that there are others involved in the process other than agricultural organisations?
ParlaMint-DK_20190328144904	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328144907	After all, all organizations and the protection of animals are welcome to follow up the way in which agriculture is run. And if you think that there is something to be done, then the organisations are in their full right to notify those farms that do not comply with the law. And then I would say that it would be very unnatural if it were not precisely agriculture as we hear in connection with this work. Then I'll have to do sir too. Simon Kollerup is aware that the purpose of the bill is not specifically to go in and tamper with all these reports written in connection with the legislation, but simply to simplify it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328144957	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it's the Minister for the Environment and Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328145005	Thank you very much for that, President. Once again, I would like to thank all the rapporteurs for their excellent contributions and for their clear views. I think we have had a good debate on several elements of this bill. The aim and main element of this bill is therefore to simplify the legislative structure in the field of animal welfare. We have had this work on the legislative compass, where we then say that we want to make the legislation simpler, simpler and more accessible, and that is why we also need to see the law in this context. So the purpose of this new main law is to replace the applicable animal welfare law and thus to create a framework law for the vast majority of animal welfare legislation. The bill before us today proposes a number of species-specific laws in this area to be repealed and, on the basis of the new animal welfare law, new species-specific regulations will then be laid down which will contain the substantive provisions currently laid down in the species-specific laws. This new structure in the field of animal welfare means that when the bill is passed and the law is put into force, we will have reduced 11 laws and approx. 40 notices to one animal welfare law and approx. 20 animal welfare regulations. I think that, in fact, also has a value. The draft law is primarily a continuation of the current rules in the field of animal welfare. I have heard many views about the fact that the law should be about something else or should address the whole area of animal welfare more thoroughly, but the aim here has therefore been to simplify the rules and to continue to apply the rules in force in this area. There are some rules that are being amended or repealed, for example. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is important for me to stress that the aim of the draft law and the new regulatory structure is to continue with the rules in force and, for the most part, in the form of regulations. The bill here will make it easier for both farmers and other stakeholders to learn about the rules that determine whether animals are thriving and whether the animals are well, and with this bill we will have a new animal welfare law based on thorough consideration, how many angles have been reversed. External expert forums have been set up which have had the aim of modernising the structure of animal welfare rules and have made statements on the structure of future animal welfare legislation, and the proposal for the new law has therefore been based on the recommendations that have come from here. The Government's proposal for a new animal welfare law requires the repeal of Section 4 of the Animal Protection Act. 2 and it has also been the subject of some discussion here, and it is it that says that particularly intrusive rules affecting agriculture must be laid down by law. The purpose of the repeal of Paragraph 4 (1) 2 is to ensure a more dynamic regulatory process by allowing rules to be issued in the future by means of notices. I think it is in everyone's interest that the rules can be adapted and modified more flexibly to ensure that the rules on animal welfare also reflect the latest knowledge and, it can be said, the world in which we live. The rules on the living quarters and residence areas of animals will typically relate to conditions which may have far-reaching economic consequences for agriculture and, therefore, the draft law continues to provide for the involvement of agricultural organisations in negotiations on new or amended rules on the living and living areas of animals, which may therefore have an impact on agriculture. It has also been the subject of some discussion here today, and that is the reason for this. The draft law contains a new provision for purposes which we have also discussed a little. It says, in my optics at least, clearly what concerns are dealt with by the law. And with the proposed bill it is clear that it is the animal welfare considerations that are at the heart, but at the same time not only animal welfare, but also animal ethics as an essential element in today's understanding of good animal welfare. I think it makes good sense to have a purpose clause which specifies that the law applies not only to animal welfare but also provides for the possibility of laying down rules which, in other words, have an ethical objective. We all have an interest in getting a new animal welfare law that will both be more useful because it will create a better overview and which can be forward-looking, because it will be able to accommodate the fact that we live in a highly changing world. I think we have actually succeeded in this with the proposal for the new animal welfare law. I have also heard the comments and comments today and look forward to the committee reading of the draft law, and I thank you for the debate here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328145540	There are some brief comments. First, it's sir. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328145544	Thank you. After all, the Minister comes to the Parliamentary Chamber today and receives from the outset a criticism from a majority in the Folketing for not having organised a process in which the parties of the Folketing have been involved in the creation of a new main law, i.e. a substantial law in the field of animal welfare. I noted that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party said that it should not be a secret that the law would have looked somewhat different if the Danish People's Party had been involved in its treatment. It didn't happen, and it's sad. Why has the Minister produced a new main law, without having previously had political negotiations or discussions with the parties of the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20190328145627	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328145630	As I tried to say in my speech here before, which apparently was not entirely clear as spa water, the purpose of this law is a simplification. It is not to lay down new rules on animal welfare and to enshrine the system that we know from there, but to say: let us simplify the many laws and regulations we have today and bring it together in framework legislation, and let us then translate into announcements what concerns the more species-specific conditions of this kind. And I am happy to discuss that part of it. But this is what sets the framework for what we are talking about, so I had the idea that it was good to get that framework in place. And I still think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328145718	Sir. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328145721	There will be no new rules, says the Minister. So I would like to ask: are organisations other than agricultural organizations involved today when rules of an intrusive nature are laid down in the Ministry on animals in agriculture, that is to say they are not bound by international obligations? Are we involved, then, other than in agricultural organizations? I am asking, of course, because the draft law states that it must be the agricultural organisations that must be involved. The minister then says that there is nothing new in the law. And then I just want to know what practice is today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328145756	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328145758	As I said in my speech here a moment ago... which I believe also exists as a transcript in a few hours' time... the purpose of the law is not to make any changes. But I also said that there are some minor adjustments and changes in the law. So the fact that it is exactly the same as what we have had in the past does not mean that I should be taken as an income. When agricultural organizations are particularly highlighted here, it is because the special status they currently have in Section 4 of the Animal Protection Act. 2, remove. And that is why we want to add it somewhere else, because it can have very major consequences. But of course I and my ministry are listening to all those who have wise things to say in this area today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328145848	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328145852	But I think it is disappointing that it is only this simplification of rules which is at the heart of what the government will do, especially when you have seen what developments in animal production have taken place since 1991 and what changes really need to be made. With regard to the issue of giving agriculture a special right to enter and to be involved before proposals and rules are drawn up, I would say that I do not think we were given a very clear answer. Is what is now clarified in legislation, what has been the practice in recent years under this government and under the Left Government? In other words, there we had some cases where agriculture was in and formulating matters for ministers. And there you can say that it is actually a bit of an advantage that what you practice is in a law. So I am actually interested to know whether what is now being written here is merely a clarification of the practice which has been implemented over the last four years by the governments we have seen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328145958	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328150002	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen presents his conspiracy theories here in the Assembly Hall with a customary sense of the dramatic now. As I replied, Mr. Simon Kollerup, just before this question, and that's why I'm a little surprised that it's not absolutely crystal clear what I think is the special status of agriculture today in § 4 paragraph 4. 2 of the Animal Protection Act, no longer applicable because that provision no longer exists. And that is why the provision is then continued elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328150029	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328150031	But with this special status that agriculture has, I would really like to hear from the Minister whether the Minister can see outlines of the fact that something has actually developed since 1991, which we should take care of. Because we have ended up in a situation where on average a bitch gets 18 pigs instead of the barely 12, as was the case, back when the last major change was made. There are 24,000 piglets who die every day in the Danish agriculture 9 million a year. I think there is, as it were, reason to look at whether there is nothing animal welfare that could be better done. Can the Minister not see that there is a task other than the simplification of rules which needs to be carried out?
ParlaMint-DK_20190328150106	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328150107	There are many other tasks than regulatory simplification that need to be carried out. That doesn't mean we don't have to make a simplistic rule. I mean, that's kind of what you call whatatboutery in modern English: Well, there are other problems... why don't we deal with them first? I think it is important to make a regulatory simplification; I think it is also important to address some of the challenges that Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen also puts his finger on here. That is why we have a pig action plan; it is the one that is handling it. And that is not the law we are discussing today. So even if Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen has a wish that the law was about something else, does not mean that we do not address those concerns elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328150149	Then it's Mrs. Karina Due, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328150150	Thank you. Now I am aware that the Minister has not been a minister for the whole period in which I have been rapporteur on animal welfare, but can the Minister not understand that I am a little disappointed when I have been told repeatedly over the last four years that this is what we are going to bring in when we have to revise the Animal Protection Act anyway, and what we are waiting for until we have to revise the Animal Protection Act, and then there is something about an expectation vote here that the Animal Protection Act should not be revised at all, it just needs to be simplified. I know that the Minister is inheriting promises for which he cannot be taken for himself, but can the Minister not understand that one becomes a little too sorry that one cannot do the work that one would like to do?
ParlaMint-DK_20190328150248	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328150249	I can understand that, and I'm not going to give up anything. It is evident that when you enter the door of a ministry, you acknowledge inheritance and debt, if you may say so. I am sorry if there has been a vote of expectation that has been taken in the fence along the way. Having said that, this is a framework law and, as I said in my speech before, this is the framework law which lays down the general framework, and then we have these regulations which are at animal species level. With the proposals I have heard from Mrs Karina Due, it is perhaps more appropriate to take those discussions in this context. However, I would like to say that the things that have been changed in the law here, compared with earlier ones, are of course what concerns animal transport, namely the agreement that the government concluded with the Danish People's Party with an otherwise excellent effort by Mrs Karina Due in December, and it is the provisions that relate to the possibility of restricting or stopping the holding of wild animals in circuses, for which Mrs Karina Due must also have a very, very large share of the credit.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328150401	Mrs. Karina Due.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328150402	Thank you very much for that. The purpose clause seems to me to be insanely important because it is, like, the foundation of our whole way of making animal welfare here in the Folketing. I just think it's so important that we get the extra stuff put in that I've been talking about. Will the Minister be willing to look at a different wording of paragraphs 1 and 2 of purpose?
ParlaMint-DK_20190328150433	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328150434	I stand here with the purpose clause in front of me and the fact that the law aims to provide animal welfare and animal ethical considerations: animals are living beings and must be treated securely and protected as far as possible from pain, suffering and anxiety, lasting but significant disadvantage, and then it continues down there. I really think that it is very well setting out the framework for what we want with this, that it is not just expensive protection I heard the comments from the Radical Left about animal ethics. I think it is important now to include it in this context too.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328150513	Then it's mr. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328150515	One of the things I said in my speech, which has happened over the last 30 years, is this recognition of animal emotion, and I want to know if the Minister knows about this Cambridge Declaration, which I mentioned, from 2012, when a number of researchers recognise that you do not need a frontal lobe to have a rich emotional life. In other words, the realization must be understood as meaning that there may be feelings in far more primitive animals than we have previously thought. Shouldn't you take that into consideration when looking at a new Animal Protection Act here in 2019?
ParlaMint-DK_20190328150559	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328150559-2	Yes, and the law as such also opens up the possibility of doing so, and it was also one of the criticisms Mrs Karina Due made about being sentient beings. I understand that this discussion is taking place and that some people think something about it, and these are very qualified people. But I know that we are not in a place where we can say that snails, insects and others have the same, I was saying emotional register, and that is not what I mean, but as much ability in terms of sensory perception as we see in other animals. That's why we have this distinction. But there is, of course, the possibility that the animals can also be included in the law if it turns out that there is evidence that they are also sentient beings.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328150655	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328150656	I'm glad to hear that, that is, that there are opportunities there. I think that the time will be ripe for such a thing to be built specifically into legislation, so that one has the recognition that that is the level of knowledge that we have today. After all, it is not just an idea that comes from some researchers; it is something that is simply contained in the Treaty of Lisbon, that is to say, the sense of animals. After all, it is a generally recognised shift that has been carried out over the last 10 to 20 years in the understanding of the animals.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328150728	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328150729	Well, I'm pretty sure that when we have the necessary documentation there I don't think we are yet, but let's finally have a discussion about the animal species that are sentient beings, including insects and snails, then of course they must also be subject to equal conditions. If there is discrimination, it can be said, today between animal species, it is because we do not find it established that there is this sensory perception in these animals.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328150802	We thank the Minister. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328150816	The debate is open. Sir. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328150840	Thank you. Bill No. L 198 is concerned with the adjustment of aid schemes for the reduction of ferry tariffs for passenger transport and the establishment of a special system for the provision of goods for Mandø. There have been shifts in traffic figures for 5.3 million. kr., and there has been a change in the way the municipalities make keys on passenger areas. Therefore, there is reason to look at this amendment of the law, which will also provide greater flexibility for municipalities with small islands using the subsidy funds. And then there is the special establishment of a Mandø scheme. In the Social Democratic Party we welcome the fact that we have made a good deal of progress on road equality, where it costs the same thing to sail by ferry as it will cost to drive a corresponding route by car • the so-called road principle. However, the process has been long, even too far in our view. Indeed, we are of the opinion that lower ferry tariffs will contribute to the development and jobs of our islands, and that is a very, very important effort. Last year, a broad majority agreed to adjust the subsidy arrangements for the reduction of ferry tariffs for passenger and freight transport, and the changes were made on the basis of an evaluation of the arrangements and new traffic figures which are shifting the current allocation system. I think we have a very sensible agreement here, which we are implementing with this bill. Personally, I am also very pleased that we are resolving the problem of Mandø, which I myself have been very concerned about. As you know, Mandø does not have a ferry, but a so-called lending road that is available part of the day. We who live in the area are aware of the problem of high tides and that there is no road access to Mandø. This presents challenges for business and islanders on Mandø in relation to freight transport and the derived additional costs, and with the bill here I am therefore pleased that we are providing Mandø with an earmarked grant of 91,000 DKK. to a special Mandø solution for the joint transport of goods to the island. So the Social Democratic Party hereby supports L 198 and the same announcement I shall make on behalf of Andreas Steenberg of the Radicals.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328151118	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328151130	The transport equality of the islands means that it should not cost more to sail to an island than it costs to drive the same route on the road. The aim of transport equality is to ensure settlement, business and tourism in the islands. The Danish People's Party took the initiative on transport equality back in 2014, and fortunately I was supported by a unified Parliament. I am very grateful for that today, and I am also grateful for the long road we have come together since. What we are seeing here is actually an example of how democracy works in the ideal world. It starts with some islands airing their challenges to their organisation, the Association of Danish Small Islands. Then they come to us politicians and tell us about the challenges; and challenges they had slightly different ones. Among other things: There were some islands which did not benefit from transport equality when it applied only outside the summer holidays of schools, because people would therefore only visit them during the summer holidays of schools. Troels Ravn of the Social Democratic Party described the situation on Mandø, where the discounts we had otherwise given the islands for freight transport were not taken into account because they have no ferry. In the Rural Committee we sit a lot of people across the parties, all of whom are fervently passionate about rural areas and the islands. The Minister for the Interior had invited us to the evaluation of transport equality, and there he listened attentively to the challenges that we in the committee passed on on on behalf of the islands. The Minister did not dispute which party the individual proposals came from. He didn't give any of us special treatment. He showed us all great gratitude, and together we had it all implemented. Thank you, Minister. I wish all politics were like the cooperation between the Rural Committee and the Interior Minister: citizens who turn to politicians and are taken seriously by them; a minister who takes politicians seriously regardless of party color. Finally, we have the result: better conditions for the islands, which hopefully means more settlement, business and tourism. Recently I was asked why most of what I am fighting for is something that affects only a few people, instead of taking the slightly bigger cases, those who give some press and those who are some votes in. Here I came to think of what we are doing for Mandø right now with the proposal. Right now, we are making national legislation on something that will only affect 40 people at national level 40 people. For the 40 people, however, this means that they are now being treated equally with the other islands in the area of good. The good Mother Teresa said: I don't want to do big things, I want to do little things with great love. And that's what we have to remember here. We should never get so far away from the citizens that we only care about the big things, because what is in the vote. With this proposal, all parties, in cooperation with the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior, have made some changes, all of which benefit the islands. But we are not there yet, and the Minister knows very well that he will not be at peace with me until we have full transport equality in the economic field and throughout the year. But when you have a goal, you should also remember to enjoy the milestones you achieve along the way. So let us together enjoy the milestones that we have achieved, together with the islands. Thank you to my good colleagues on the Rural Committee and to the Minister for their willingness to fight for even better conditions for the islands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328151605	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328151609	I can't help myself (Mette Hjermind Dencker No, it's okay). It was a fine speech, and I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on this, particularly the late one, which was called: I want to do small things with great love. I was really thinking of now the late Master Fatman honored being his memory.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328151632	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328151635	Well, thank you very much, sir. Henning Hylllested. Thank you for the good cooperation we have, especially about this project that we couldn't have done without you thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328151647	Pedagogical speeches are always welcome. And there were young people in the gallery, so it couldn't be better. Thank you very much to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Thomas Danielsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328151655	Thank you for that, President. We are discussing L 198 and there has already been a very good review of the various initiatives in the proposal. What is at stake is that we continue and extend our ferry subsidies to the small islands. The islands can even give priority to themselves now, however, which weeks within max. 46 weeks they will prioritize. And I think that's excellent. What is happening with this bill is, of course, that we continue to ensure equal treatment of the islands in relation to the mainland, both in relation to business development, in relation to settlement and everything we want to promote as part of a Denmark in balance. And we can see historically that it has already borne fruit, that we made these tariff reductions... it's really something that bats out on the islands. So thank you for the good cooperation on that, and thank you to the Minister for bringing forward this excellent bill, which helps the government get well over 100 concrete rural initiatives to ensure a Denmark in balance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328151759	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328151801	Thank you. As has been said, the bill implements the agreement on the adjustment of the subsidy arrangements for the reduction of ferry tariffs, which all the parties of the Danish Parliament, including Enhedslisten (Enhedslisten) it is quite fun to stand here and say including Enhedslisten (Enhedslisten). And it is good to note that the arrangements for reducing ferry charges in the passenger and freight sectors generally operate according to their intentions, and that this has therefore also led to increased tourism in the islands and a consequent basis for a good business, a good commercial life, after all, a better basis for increased settlements or, at least, a smaller migration. The accelerated evaluation, which resulted in the political agreement of November 2018 and now this bill, was therefore a very good idea, we can see that it also adjusts the original legislative proposal on a number of points which, according to the consultations, have been very well received. In this respect, it is good that we add 5.3 million to the agreement. kr., so no municipality/færgefart loses anything in subsidies to reduce the rates. Praise the government and the Minister for the Interior, and that is something to be taken care of from the Enhedslisten here for an election, but also for all the parties behind the agreement for the very broad agreement that we have and continue to hold on to. So it is clear that if you now live in the municipality of Esbjerg and have even been elected in the same place, you cannot help but rejoice that Mandø is now joining the cart with the other small islands as regards the establishment of a common system of benefits, even with a grant of DKK 91 000. Enhedslisten supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328151958	Thank you to the rapporteur, and we will move on to Mr Beazley's report. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance, we're gonna break loose here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328152010	Thank you. It is fantastic to have such a bill given to me, on which I am not the rapporteur, but our rapporteur is prevented, so I am happy to have received the proposal, and it would also be utterly hopeless at this stage, after the exchange of words between the Danish People's Party and the Enhedslisten, to begin to point out that this is also an increase in public expenditure. So I'm not saying anything about that. On the other hand, I am also saying because I then plead with my own minister that, as such, there are all odds against saying anything other than full support for the series of parties that stood together about this, which these 40 people are then enthusiastic about. So here's a greeting to the same 40 from here, that we back up.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328152054	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328152100	Thank you for that, President. The sun shines at least in Copenhagen, and I do not know what it is doing in the country, and it does so on Mandø today. It has always been a pleasure to be part of the Rural and Islands Committee, because there is so much support between the parties in terms of achieving the results needed to have a coherent Denmark. After all, we are not yet in the finish line, either with the road principle or with the structural starvation that has been going on over the past many decades. But we keep focusing on it, and the most important thing is that you citizens, as you have done here, also help us stay focused on it and report on what you need so that we can raise this agenda together. The alternative can also be found in the draft law. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328152154	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328152201	Denmark must also be associated with our islands. We are an island kingdom, and that includes Mandø. The feedback from the municipal authorities and the islands so far has been unequivocally positive. It has created optimism and faith in the future for residential, cultural and professional activities. It's just a lovely day.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328152224	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior who must deal with the much kindness expressed from the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328152238	Yes, it is almost hard not to blush on a day when as Minister of the Liberal Alliance I have been praised by the Enhedslisten. It is a great day in my life, and then there are some who may think that I will then be tempted to say that then I have nothing more to achieve as a minister, and then we have to leave it at that. Now that is not my ambition, but thank you for the nice words both to Mr. Henning Hyllested and a number of the other rapporteurs. I have been pleased with the cooperation we have had, and one can of course say about the speakers who have been, that never so many have praised so little, and it is actually very beautiful that this is so, because it is a small amount of adjustments that we have made here together. We have ensured that no municipalities and ferry routes lost money in connection with the evaluation that was made. We have provided for more flexibility for the islands. We have ensured that there will be a State guarantee for the standard ferry concept. We have made sure that even an island which does not have a ferry has now come under these arrangements, namely Mandø, and then it is soon impossible to wish for more. In fact, I think that Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker said it perhaps most beautifully, namely that it is love for the small proposals. I think that was actually very beautiful, and when was the last time both Mother Teresa and Master Fatman were involved in the same debate? Then there will be no more love here. I just have a few specific points to make anyway. The Social Democrat rapporteur, Troels Ravn, said that the Social Democrats had been impatient and did not think that it was fast enough and so on, and perhaps it was particularly directed at the 40, i.e. the Mandø problem, because if you look at it, this is an evaluation which I have speeded up, so it has gone faster than what the Folketing had broadly agreed, and not slower. I think I should like to mention that, since there was that comment at the outset. Then there is one other rapporteur I would just like to correct, and that is Mr Beazley. Leif Mikkelsen of the Liberal Alliance, who believed that there was an increase in public expenditure. I saw that the smiles spread in the left part of the Chamber, but I have to disappoint, because that is part of the overall financial law agreement, so of course there are counter-productive savings to fund this. So, sir. Leif Mikkelsen's gonna have to walk out of here with a smile on his lip anyway. However, thank you for your kind words and thank you for having had such good and constructive cooperation in resolving problems which are, of course, very relevant to the people who have had them. Although what was said by the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party may not be what the general public is most concerned about, it is of course important for those who are concerned, and I think we have done this in a distinguished way. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328152538	Thank you to the Minister and to the rapporteurs for a slightly different debate. No one else has asked to speak and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Rural and Islands Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328152556	The debate is open. Sir. Rasmus Prehn, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328152627	The bill here lays down to tighten up the fines that are if you drive around by truck or bus and do not have control over the safety systems that are in buses and trucks • it may be braking system or something else. The proposal stems, as the comments also show, from the unfortunate incidents we have seen, among other things. at the Dana Cup in Hjørring, where you have this world-famous football event, where young people come from large parts of the world and play football in the summer. Back in the summer of 2017, there were a number of rather unfortunate incidents with buses that drove with these young people without having enough good brakes. This triggered quite an outcry, and it is clear that many felt insecure about driving around with young people when the brakes were not controlled. This made the industry to a large extent responsible for this and has launched a campaign to get the hauliers to have more control over the brakes of the vehicles. Danske Busvognmænd, now called Dansk PersonTransport, has established a scheme to ensure that several of these road hauliers themselves get brake control systems out into the workshops, and this summer, among other things, could. Jørn's bus trips in Brønderslev illustrate how it works, and therefore you also had a Dana Cup without any problems with the brakes. But best as we thought that the problems had now been solved and that the industry had now taken responsibility for this itself, we experienced a dull and unfortunate episode in connection with Skanderborg Festival, where again there were buses driving, which had brakes that did not work. And so it has been done that, as I understand it, the ministry has thought: then we have to put on a little bit. If you cannot control this yourself, if you cannot take responsibility for it yourself, then we need to impose fines that are more dissuasive. What is the point is that today you can get rid of a fine of a few thousand kroner, and changing the brakes may cost DKK 20,000, and that is why perhaps some more deterrent fines are needed to make the industry tighten this up, and that is what the proposal is proposing. We in the Socialist Group think this is common sense. It is important that we get things right for the sake of road safety, for the sake of safety for the children and others who drive buses, for the sake of safety by driving in the trucks, and for the sake of private drivers driving on the roads. It's nice that these things are under control. What we can be a little uncertain about is whether we are again putting a dull and stressful pressure on the individual driver. As we read from the Social Democrats the comments on the bill, we are aware that the driver can be without responsibility in a situation where it is the lorryman who is in charge of this. Nevertheless, the driver is in danger of getting some pretty heavy fines, and I can imagine that in a bus company or something else one might be under enormous pressure to drive a bus, even if it is not in order. I myself had a dialogue with some of the drivers involved in the Dana Cup case, and they said that they had tried several times to correct some of these problems, but that they had run their foreheads against a wall and that nothing had really happened. I would be a little sad if it is the case that there are some drivers who get into an unfortunate situation where they get a huge fine, even though they do not really have a lot to share in this. So I hope that the bill is sufficiently precise not to bring drivers into a trap where they are responsible for something that is not their responsibility. Otherwise, I think we should look at how we can be more specific about that. It is no more than 1.5 to 2 years ago that the former Minister for Transport Hans Christian Schmidt introduced a bill which made some fines more lighter, because some drivers suffered stress and others because of the heavy fines. I think we should have a look at that. The next thing is that if there is no such thing as seat belts for drivers, there will be no extra fines, and we may be surprised that this type of safety does not rank so high in the legislative proposal. Overall, these are a number of good intentions. The great fundamental story we can easily see ourselves in from the Social Democratic side and we will support the bill. However, we will probably ask a few clarification questions, and it may be that an amendment will be necessary to ensure that no innocent drivers come under severe pressure because they work for some road hauliers who do not want to comply with the rules. This is something we are concerned about from the Social Democrats, but we will try to pursue it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328153125	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. And we move on to Mr. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328153131	Thank you. It is a very good proposal that we are discussing here today. As Mr. Rasmus Prehn has already mentioned this, after all, is the result of a number of unfortunate incidents, some of which include: was responsible for driving with children. Now my children are so big that they can take care of themselves, but it has to be the case that parents who have smaller children and send them off to sports events and the like can have full confidence that they are also transported safely and safely around and are not driven around in old, dilapidated buses that do not live up to the rules of traffic law in relation to the condition of the bus. So I think it's fine that we tighten up the requirements. It is a good signal to send to the industry when we say: We do not want your old buses, which should have been scrapped a long time ago, to lie and ride with children and young people. So it's a really good suggestion, but like Mr. Simpson... Rasmus Prehn, I would also like to raise a small flag with the Minister in relation to the drivers. Because when you take a bus licence, we know that you are also trained in braking systems and so on. So, of course, the driver has a share of responsibility and must be aware of whether the bus on which he enters now also complies with the rules. However, in relation to allowing it to accumulate, because some unscrupulous trucker repeatedly exceeds the rules, I would say that perhaps it is to tighten it just a thank you too much also to the driver. I think that many of these drivers may feel pressured and maybe think: Oh, I could lose my job, and this bus actually runs fine. So it is fine that there is co-responsibility on the part of the driver, but we just have to be careful that drivers are not forced to drive because of unscrupulous coach drivers, and then risk having huge fines that can have a decisive impact on their private economy. So I have this little appeal, but otherwise I think it is a very good proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328153342	There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328153348	Thank you. With the bill that we are debating today, we are legislating on higher penalty rates and fine responsibility for improving traffic safety. The bill changes the penalty rates for serious safety-critical errors and shortcomings in buses and lorries, and today, as I said, the level of fines is between DKK 1,000 and DKK 3 000. We do not think this is sufficient in relation to the consequences that the mistakes and shortcomings may have for road users. The guidelines for the level of fines are proposed with this bill increased to DKK 5,000. for the driver and 10,000 kroner. for the owner in first-time cases. I think it is important that the penalty rate matches the price level for repairs on the large vehicles, which are typically located in a location between 10,000 and 20,000 DKK, so that there will be no economic disadvantage in failing to maintain the large heavy vehicles. It is also the intention of the bill to put an end to illegal noisy vehicles. Therefore, an increase in the level of fines is proposed for unlawful noise emitted by motor vehicles which, due to constructive changes or lack of maintenance, make unnecessary noise. The noise is a nuisance to the citizens who live with it in everyday life. I believe that the new level of fines will reduce the noise of citizens suffering from it, because it has and can have a deterrent effect. I therefore see that the legislative proposal will have a good and apt effect on the people who change their vehicles so that they make more noise and on the people who also drive around in them. Because of the amount of the fine, I also think that you will think twice before you tamper with the exhaust or gas unnecessarily into the traffic. This will help to change traffic behaviour and, above all, to improve the quality of life for citizens who are currently suffering from noise. In addition, it is also proposed to change the liability for fines, which is currently imposed only on the owner of the motor vehicle. We want to help change this, because we believe that it is unreasonable that the driver, who can borrow the vehicle in question, should not be sufficiently affected by his actions. That is why it is also proposed that the driver of a noisy motor vehicle should be subject to liability in the future, because it is only fair that the driver should also feel the consequences. With those words, I would like to say that the Left supports this bill. Then I would also like to welcome the Radical Left, which unfortunately cannot be here today, and say that they also support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328153647	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mr. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328153700	Thank you. Years ago, I was, in fact, the main responsibility for a number of large assemblies where we moved incredibly many people, and I do not want to hide the fact that I was almost both shocked and shocked when, a few years ago, we saw the incidents in which children and young people were moved from place to place in connection with sports conferences in a completely irresponsible way. In addition, I was so shocked that the same people could be caught a few days later in the same mistakes, even though the errors were complained of. That is why it is right to take this initiative and implement legislation here. I sense that the industry has also seen the writing on the wall or the seriousness of it, because after all, it is now some time since we have seen the bad examples. It may not be that they are gone, but otherwise this bill might help them disappear completely, because it suddenly becomes a pretty serious financial burden if you violate these rules. It is a matter of both responsibility and safety for children and young people who have taken carelessly to an event of good association with others to whom parents should be able to send their children and young people safely. Everything else is completely crazy, and that is why it is, of course, a right step to tighten this up, although one can say that fines do not always do so because they are kept up against what the alternative profit is. So we must hope that we have hit it so well that it deters those who want to abuse this to make an irresponsible profit for easy money. The Liberal Alliance supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328153836	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328153842	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the previous rapporteur. I actually agree with the Liberal Alliance to be so brave in criticising the fact that it is totally unacceptable and insane that we can put our children at risk. Maybe it's a calculated risk that's being taken to save some money here. So it's really good that with this bill we're trying to contain it. I should like to say from the Enhedslisten that they could not be here today, but that they also support the bill. However, they are going to table some amendments to it with the successive fines they have to be increased in size, just as we did in relation to Adblue and the cheating of the environmental impact of trucks. I can only back that up. I do not think that the size of the fine here is good enough, and I certainly think that we should look after our drivers. Sometimes they may have been pushed out to take these jobs and are not responsible for the vehicle's braking performance, except, of course, that they should not drive the car or the bus if they know something is wrong. It may well be that we must be careful that we do not miss the wrong mark, but we need to ensure that the sanctions and penalties are of a size, so that we really stop the speculation that can be about not maintaining buses immediately. This is deeply unacceptable. So with that we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328154012	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328154019	Serious safety-critical faults and deficiencies in heavy vehicles must be severely addressed. CO-Industri has written to us that we are not just risking our own lives but the lives and viability of others by accident, especially where further means of confiscating the vehicle are created in repeat cases. However, we must also be very precise when we decide here to tighten up the penalties. Drivers do not have to pay for sloppy or lack of maintenance, which may be due to conscious thinking on the part of companies. There we can see from the hearing from DTU that they write that, with regard to the proposal to increase the level of fines for the rapporteur, we would like to point out that a report by WHO has shown that there are examples where truck drivers have known and subsequently reported major faults on the vehicle to their employer, without their being corrected and where the errors later became significant in accident situations. Furthermore, the report shows that drivers may feel pressured by employers to use these vehicles despite faults and shortcomings. With those comments, the SF can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328154136	We thank the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And then we move on to Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328154142	Thank you. In the summer of 2017 and 2018, the police carried out a number of checks, among others. buses, which transported participants to and from events such as the Football tournament Dana Cup and Beautiful Festival in Skanderborg. The checks showed that a large part of the buses were affected by defects and defects, among others. serious brake failure. The same applies to police checks on lorries, because there is a significant proportion of the checked lorries which are defective and lacking to such an extent that they have been sent for inspection. It therefore appears that there is a general problem with the maintenance condition of heavy vehicles. We have a task in helping to ensure that the vehicles on our roads are in good condition and can drive without any risk to road safety. The level of fines we have today is low in relation to the cost of maintaining heavy vehicles. The proposed level of fines in the legislative proposal can provide Conservative support, as it must not be financially profitable to refrain from maintaining heavy vehicles because the fine is very low. Conservatives can at the same time support the second part of the bill, which proposes to put an end to the illegal noise emitted by motor vehicles. Especially during the summer season, when motorcycles come forward, we experience many times being bothered by noisy vehicles. This applies both to vehicle noise, which has been changed so that they make extra noise, and to vehicle noise that deliberately gass up and recycles down the street in the middle of the city. We hope that the proposed amount of fines will be increased from DKK 1,000. $2,500. will have a deterrent effect on those who are bothering others with illegal noise from their vehicles. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328154352	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's the Minister of Transport, Building and Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328154358	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their comments on the draft law. As Minister for Transport, I want to ensure that the vehicles on our roads are in good condition and can be used without any risk to road safety. This is particularly true of heavy vehicles, such as motor vehicles. trucks and buses. In fact, with their size and weight, they pose a particular risk if they are involved in an accident. In 2017 and 2018, the police carried out a number of heavy-duty vehicle checks, among others. buses transporting participants to and from major events. The checks showed that several of the vehicles were flawed and defective, including serious brake failures. In addition, police heavy vehicle controls have shown that a not insignificant proportion of the checked trucks have faults and shortcomings to such an extent that they are sent to the sight. There is thus a picture that there is a problem with the maintenance condition of heavy vehicles. With the bill, I propose that the fine be increased for the most serious safety-critical faults and deficiencies on heavy vehicles. I know that it is rare for technical errors and shortcomings in themselves to lead to accidents, but they can contribute to the occurrence of accidents and make personal injury and damage to property worse. The road safety risk reflects the proposed level of fines. The proposed level of fines is also determined on the basis of a consideration that it is not economically worthwhile not to maintain heavy vehicles. In fact, there may be considerable costs of repairing, for example. brake failure or failure of the steering device on a bus. Depending on the nature of the error, such errors and shortcomings cost between DKr 8,000 and DKr 30,000. These amounts are in stark contrast to the current level of fines, which range from DKK 1,000 to DKK 3,000. Therefore, the fine is proposed for serious safety-critical errors and deficiencies raised to DKK 5,000. for the driver and 10,000 kroner. for the owner in first-time cases. I would like to stress that the draft law does not impose fines for new types of faults and shortcomings, nor will it be easier to incur criminal liability for vehicle failures. Neither the driver nor the coachman will be able to be punished with the bill for anything or more than what they can be punished for today. It is therefore merely an increase in the level of fines. For the reasons which have been in the Chair from among other things. Mr. Rasmus Prehn and Mr. Kim Christiansen, if it is fair now that the driver can be fined a higher fine, I would say: yes, I think it is. Because these are cases where the driver knew or should know that there were errors. It has to be said that the driver has a responsibility to send his bus for repair if the driver knows that it is wrong. It is not always that the driver discovers when the mistake occurs, it is very often the driver who discovers it. If e.g. The bus pulls awkwardly when you brake down before a cross, the driver has a duty to get his bus to repair and not to continue with it, and if the driver does not enforce or fulfil the duty that the driver has there, then I think it is reasonable for the driver to be fined, and also a bigger fine than today. Furthermore, it is possible for hauliers, including the large hauliers, to secure against the sharpened fines. They can do so by complying with the statutory periodic inspection and other technical inspections and by providing appropriate care for vehicles in their vehicle fleet. I do not think that is too much to ask. In this context, I am also pleased to hear that the transport industry has entered into a dialogue with the National Police and the Danish Road Safety Authority to identify initiatives to help transport companies ensure targeted action to improve road safety. This bill supports the efforts already being made. It is also the aim of the bill to put an end to illegal noisy vehicles. Many people find themselves bothered by noisy vehicles, especially during the summer season when motorcycles arrive. The noise from motorcycles can be so extreme that people have to stop their conversations when motorcycles blow through the streets. Sometimes it is even physically uncomfortable when a noisy motorcycle passes. I think it is quite unacceptable that it is so widespread with special motorcycles that drive around and dominate the whole soundscape to the detriment of everyone else. This is an antisocial behaviour, and something should be done about it, because it is just people who want attention from their surroundings, and they should not be allowed to do so by making so much noise. That is why I propose a significant increase in the level of fines from DKK 1,000. $2,500. This applies both to people who have changed their vehicle so that it makes extra noise and to people who deliberately gas up to roam down the street in the middle of the city. I believe that people with such a fine will think better and that the proposed amount of fines will therefore have a deterrent effect on those who bother others with illegal noise. I look forward to further consideration here in the Folketing, and I am of course available to answer any questions that may arise in this regard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328154925	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328154928	It's for this question about the drivers. Can the Minister not at all imagine the cross-pressure that an employee driver can get under when he or she discovers that something is not the way it should be, trying to contact his trucker to get it fixed and being told that he must just drive the bus as it is? This is the specific experience the drivers have told me, among other things. in connection with the Dana Cup in Hjørring. They experienced that they were being pressured to drive buses that were not in order and otherwise they could lose their jobs. So the driver can end up in a creepy cross - pressure between either getting a large fine or losing their job. Is it particularly dignified and is it particularly appropriate in relation to a good working environment?
ParlaMint-DK_20190328155014	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328155015	I can imagine that pressure, but I can also imagine that it is helpful for the driver in such a situation to be able to say to his trucker: listen, I do not want to do this. I can get a very big fine if I keep going like this. Well, it's a help in the pressed situation. On the other hand, I must also ask Mr. Rasmus Prehn, about Mr. Rasmus Prehn cannot imagine some road haulage companies, perhaps especially some small hauliers with few drivers employed, where the trucker and drivers have a close relationship and where the driver must be regarded as an accomplice if he does not draw attention to, for example. to fix brakes or a steering that is not in order. Such a situation can also be imagined.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328155106	- Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. The Rasmus Prehn word? Rasmus Prehn Yes). Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328155110	Fortunately, far, in most places, things are actually under control, and both road hauliers and drivers are very concerned that there must be completely clean lines that need to be straightened out. That's the all-dominant picture that that's the way it is. Then there are some little stumpy vessels, and there you can imagine anything. What we are just concerned about from the Social Democrats is not putting employees drivers in a dull cross-pressure. And there I have to understand the Minister that the Minister does not agree with the former Minister, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Hans Christian Schmidt, who just had a concrete bill which was about relaxing the penalties for drivers.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328155151	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328155152	But it was in another area which had its own justification, which is not the same reason as here. Here we are dealing with a driver driving around, and while he has the bus and drives around in the opposite car driver, who doesn't drive around in it, the driver finds, for example, that the bus pulls off when you brake. Should this driver really not have any responsibility to ensure that it is put in order? It is he who drives the bus and finds that the bus does not run as it should. After all, the bill does not provide for the driver to be punished in future for something for which he is not being punished today. The bill provides for a higher fine to be imposed on the offence.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328155236	Thank you. Then it's mr. Roger Courage Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328155238	Thank you. I'm just gonna back the Minister up. After all, we can only associate with a plane, that is, if a pilot is subjected to cross-pressure, is he not responsible for not getting into that plane and flying with passengers? Ultimately, it is a question of road safety and safety for our citizens, and everything else has to be done to ensure that a driver is under pressure from a given employer. My question is due to some citizens who have asked about the notification of noise from motorcycles. The bill also tells us that it is difficult now, and therefore there must be some targets in order to measure and catch these sinners. But will there be any possibility of reporting with some tools, or what has been thought about the drafting of the bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20190328155326	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328155327	The bill deals only with the size of the fine. But there is also an effort in the police to find the best possible methods to check whether there is more than acceptable noise. I just don't think that the fines today match the widespread phenomenon that for some people it's as if the whole city should hear that now they've got a motorcycle. I don't think there's any reason for the whole town to hear that. And there is also a tendency for it to be people who, by the way, are dominant in the street picture, perhaps associated with biker groups, who want to show that here we come, and we don't care about the law in all kinds of contexts, and we also blow it in the way that we let our motorbike noise, so you can hear that we come here and are dangerous wrestles. I'm gonna end that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328155413	Sir. Rouge Courage Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328155415	Thank you for that, and we can only support it in the alternative. Compared to the successive fines, that is, if an infringement continues, we have talked about whether there should be a doubling of the fine every time. It is Enhedslisten who has proposed it. What is the Minister's view of this in relation to the proposed bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20190328155440	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328155442	Now I'm not quite sure if it's about bikes making noise or whatever. I cannot answer that on a stand-by basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328155458	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport, Building and Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328155514	The debate is open. Sir. Rasmus Prehn, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328155525	Thank you very much, President. That may well be the last proposal on the agenda, but it is also the best proposal, because it is simply a step in the right direction in relation to the whole green agenda and to the climate challenge. We have recently seen that the country's schoolchildren are walking on the streets demonstrating and saying: Now you have to do something about the climate. And sometimes you can feel a little like an old man who doesn't do enough, and then it's nice when there's finally a proposal that moves in the right direction. This is about changing the taxi law, so some of the permits we give must be for zero-emission taxis, green taxis. This is a hugely positive idea. Many taxis drive mostly inside our cities, and that is also where the population is most affected by particle pollution and other things. There is also the possibility to drive electric to a different extent than with so many other cars, because there are relatively many stops where you can charge up. Therefore, we also find that in the taxi industry there is a curiosity and interest and a courage to start changing cars into more climate-friendly models. We can see this proposal, which is of course widely anchored in the Folketing and where most parties are involved, as a way of making it more motivating to switch to green taxis, because if you do, you can more easily access a permit. So out of the 500 permits we give a year, we reserve 200 for these green cabs, and it will help to encourage the taxi industry to switch over to electricity. It is a few months ago that the Danish Taxi Council, now called Dansk PersonTransport, together with some of us who are transport rapporteurs, organized an event where you could come and look at some of the green taxis that exist, and you could, as it were, kick tires on eltaxas at the same time as you took a nice hot dog. It was a fantastic event, and there was a great interest in both truckers and drivers to switch to eltaxa. I think this is a good example of drivers, road hauliers and us as politicians working together to try to switch to the greener future that is so much needed. In this way, we hope that we can help to ensure that in the future we have green taxis as a starting point and that we will reduce the pollution and the climate-laden CO2 so we think this is a welcome point and we warmly support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328155824	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328155834	The enthusiasm was great, I could hear, from the Social Democratic Party. In the Danish People's Party we may have such a more sober approach to it, but we have chosen to say that it should not be us who appear as climate enemies in any way, and therefore we would of course like to back up this incentive for some taxi drivers to choose an eltaxa. And I would therefore call for it to be in the more densely populated areas, I do not think this is going to be a success in rural areas. But there are also 300 permits which then go to conventional cars. It's a good thing you start up here. But there's something I can be a little worried about. I was just like sir. Rasmus Prehn out looking at the possibilities there are for electric cars, and I would say that if they have to have a reasonable level where you can provide a service and where there can be two adult people and luggage in the car, then those cars are still very expensive and that will probably have a limiting effect. The smallest of these electric cars that are available, I would say, are not suitable for driving a taxi in the country you cannot provide the service you should be able to provide with them. But fair enough. It is also a market that is developing with seven-mile steps. So the car manufacturers have to get up. That is why we in the Danish People's Party support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328160010	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328160020	Thank you. On taxis, which are zero-emission cars, I saw the other day that there was a taxi trucker at Mother's who actually had Teslaes. And you can at least say that is not in a more densely populated area. So it can also be done outside the major cities. With the legislative proposal we have here, we are trying to provide an incentive to increase the number of zero-emission cars in the coming years. It's part of the government's climate and airplay... Along with a greener future to ensure a climate-neutral society by 2050 at the latest. And this proposal is, of course, about trying to remove petrol and diesel from taxi operation by 2030, and since taxis drive many kilometres every day and often drive places where there are many people, it is only natural that the taxi industry takes the lead in the green transition. And I would like to support that. The proposal proposes, as the previous rapporteurs have already explained, to reserve 200 licences for zero-emission cars in 2019 and 2020. And it will also make it more attractive for the taxi industry to choose the green solution with either a hydrogen car or an electric car rather than the more conventional motor vehicle. It will be easier and better for taxi passengers who want to choose a green solution, and I also hope that more hauliers will support that. As I said, this bill will affect the environment in a green direction, and the Left is very much in favour of it. And then I should like to welcome the Radical Left and say that they also support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328160239	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328160245	Thank you for that, and thank you to the rapporteur for also sharing a little bit of gold around the government's climate strategy forward-looking. We have a car park of about 2.4 million cars, and it is small 10,000 electric cars we have in Denmark. The Climate Council says that we must have 1 million electric cars by 2030 if we are to achieve the climate targets, so I think it is quite reasonable that this bill should be tabled here. That's 200 Eltaxas. Now that the rapporteur himself is talking about strategy, can the rapporteur give some thought to how the Left intends to deal with emissions free by 2030 for taxis and by 2050 for cars?
ParlaMint-DK_20190328160325	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328160327	That's a very good question. We have an ambition of 1 million green cars by 2030, and I hope that the alternative shares that ambition. What we have done on the short track is to tax-free electric cars up to DKK 400 000. in 2019 and 2020, and then we have to find out what we are doing to increase the number of electric cars. We look forward to that work, but today I do not have the precise strategy on how we achieve that goal, but there is no doubt that we are going in that direction, and that is the ambition of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328160408	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328160422	Thank you. After all, there is no doubt that the greatest environmental impact, the greatest effect on people in green terms, we will have where the most taxis and buses and so on, and we know that it is in the big cities that more taxis are being carried out. This bill is now about taxis, but I would also like to mention buses. So if we are talking about environmental benefits and about the risk of making people sick and reducing that risk, it is in larger cities, and this is where we are talking about taxis today. So it is the right way to go, namely to get more of them to drive green as soon as possible. Remembering, sir. Kim Christiansen's remark that it is not all electric cars that are particularly suitable for taxi transport, we must hope that such an approach that more will now come, in other words also inspire manufacturers to get us cars that will enable a taxi trucker to invest in zero-emission cars, and that we will thus get more taxis to drive around in the cities where so many people live. It is right to bet on the cities. We are lumping ourselves together in big cities at the moment, and therefore there are special considerations to take here, so in that light the bill is right. We support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328160542	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328160550	Thank you. In the alternative, we are not part of the vote agreement in relation to our modernisation of the taxi law. This does not mean that we do not want to join another time, as we also announced to the parties then, we will gladly join at another time. The reason why we weren't here was precisely because we were a little worried about whether there would be a big focus on selling out to capital funds.We have seen that now with Dankaise.But we were also concerned that we didn't use the digital tools well enough in terms of mobility in Denmark. I also know that the Liberal Alliance itself was a great advocate of this. This then leads me to believe that, of course, we support the idea that we should have 200 earmarked emission-free taxis in relation to this bill, but concrete solutions are not really available from the Left, and I think that is really a pity because we are behind. The rapporteur himself mentions that there are young people who are demonstrating the world over; there are young people sitting up here in the gallery, and there are people every Thursday in front of Christiansborg. We say stop for fossil fuel vehicles from 2025. We say that we must take full care of the tax exemption. And we say that we must, of course, make use of the car park we have today, with new transport options, among other things. we could have done differently with the modernisation of taxi legislation. So there are plenty and plenty of opportunities to move on the agenda now besides just putting it out to the taxi industry with 200 permissions a year • that's not enough. But, of course, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328160736	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328160744	That is not all we were equally fortunate about in connection with the new taxi law, but in relation to these so-called green permits we have hit correctly. Green taxis are, of course, the future for reasons of climate, clean air and traffic noise. There is only one small flag that may need to be hoisted, and it is the consultation answer that we have received from Dansk Persontransport, who writes that there may be problems in delivering zero-emission cars on time. An applicant for an authorisation shall inform the Agency within 2 months of the registration number of the zero emission taxa to be attached to the authorisation. Danish Passenger Transport suggests that it should be possible to extend the two-month deadline if the applicant can demonstrate that a zero-emission car has been agreed, but that the car can only be delivered within a reasonable period of time. I think we should consider a derogation.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328160849	Thank you to the rapporteur. And we move on to Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328160859	Conservatives can support the bill here, which has positive environmental consequences, as the proposal makes it more attractive to purchase a zero-emission car and thereby reduce CO2 At the same time, the bill also helps to make it easier for passengers who want to choose a green taxi rather than a conventional taxi. And that is something we can support from the conservative side.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328160936	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's the Minister of Transport, Building and Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328160943	Thank you to the rapporteurs for the positive reception of the draft law. This is a good step towards the goal of the government's climate and air project that petrol and diesel should be out of taxi operation by 2030. The aim of the bill is to make it more attractive for the taxi industry to switch its fleet to green cars that customers demand. The draft law therefore provides for 50 licences per year. for the remainder of the transitional period of the taxi law, are reserved for zero-emission vehicles, i.e. for electric or hydrogen vehicles. Applicants who choose to purchase a zero-emission car will thus have a significantly better chance of obtaining one of the sought-after permits. If there are not enough applicants for the zero emission permits, they will be transferred to the conventional car pool so that 125 licences per year are still issued. quarter of the transitional period. During the consultation period, we have listened to the industry, with the possibility of obtaining a zero emission permit being maintained, even though the delivery time of zero emission cars may be long. An option has therefore been introduced to grant an exemption from the two-month deadline for information on the registration number of the car to the Danish Road Administration if only the applicant can present a receipt for the purchase, lease or rental of a zero-emission car. Then I would add that the government really played out with something even more green than this. We would give a guarantee in the government that anyone who made an application for a zero-emission car could obtain a permit, even if the figure exceeded 50 or even 125 per car. quarter. It was the government's view, but many parties here in the Folketing, who call themselves green, would not support that view. This was true of the SF, and it was true of the Social Democratic Party, which would rather have limited access to permits for green cars. It was because those parties were more concerned with maintaining a transitional regime for the total liberalisation of the taxi law; that it did not go too fast to get many new players into the market; and that it would not sacrifice this slow transitional regime for a more green policy. That is why it was opposed by the SF and the Social Democrats. You have to remember that every time you hear that kind of party talk about that they're oh, so green. In fact, sometimes they care about something else that is not so green.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328161209	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328161213	Thank you. What is new to me and the alternative, and I find that very worrying. In relation to the strategy for the taxi industry to be converted as far as 2030, does the Minister have any idea how this will happen, in addition to the legislation we hope to adopt with this proposal? Then I should like to welcome the Enhedslisten and say that they naturally also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328161242	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328161245	The green transition in Denmark is going to happen, and it is going to happen by the fact that year by year there will be more and more green cars. At the moment, it is mainly electric cars that are coming out of, and that is what it seems to be in the future. The car industry invests hundreds of billions in switching production from petrol and diesel cars to electric cars in these years, and the expectation in the industry is that by the mid 2020s an electric car costs no more than a petrol or diesel car. On the other hand, it will be cheaper in operation. So, in this way, the conversion will come as a result of technological developments and the investments that are being made.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328161323	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport, Building and Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190328161338	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday, 29 March, at 1 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
