ParlaMint-DK_20191218090022	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218090038	I would point out that both amendments and proposals can be commented on. It will also be allowed to comment on legislative proposals on the ceiling for expenditure that is L 2 and L 3. Then the Minister for Finance has informed me that he wishes to take Amendment No. 71, 78-80, 153, 155, 156, 164, 166, 181, 182, 244, 245 and 419-426 remain. Does anyone wish to accept these amendments? As this is not the case, they have lapsed. I predict that we have half a day ahead of us and will therefore point out that there will be a lunch break around noon. 12. I also believe that we can expect there to be a break around 8 a.m. 18. The debate is open, and first it is Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218090139	Thank you. Today, on 18 December, we are writing so that Christmas is at the door, and the calendar light is gradually becoming as worn out as at least some of us were after we had negotiated the Finance Act. Fortunately, Christmas holidays are just around the corner. In a moment we and the rest of the Danes will sit around the Christmas table, and even though climate change may have cancelled the snow, the Christmas spirit is fortunately intact in most places. Of course, the good Christmas dinner includes Christmas duck or christmas roast, white potatoes, brown potatoes, red cabbage and sauce. Now I'm from Jutland, so of course there are plenty of menychips that can be used to shovel the sauce on board when we get that far. In a few days' time we'll all be sitting together around the Christmas table, gathered around the same thing, but yet we're sitting here, the different. The last thing you can make sure of is that at Christmas dinner you let your eyes wander around the table and imagine how the different members of the Danish family will each feel the Finance Act that we are discussing today. For example, at the table is cousin Anne. She's in her mid-30s, she works as a nurse at the hospital. Even though Anne is young, she desperately needs a night off, because things go fast in the hospital. They run fast. There's less proximity, there's more hurry. The Finance Act is good for Anne, because with the Finance Act Anne, along with the Christmas duck, can enjoy the prospect of getting new colleagues. When we have later today and tomorrow pressed the green buttons, money will be set aside for Anne to have 1,000 new colleagues in a couple of years. So if Anne is a young, sensible woman and has voted for the Social Democracy, which fortunately there are a good number of nurses who have done, then Anne will be able to see that politics makes a difference. Across the street from Anne, Sister Pernille. Pernille is frustrated that there are not enough educators in the institution in which her eldest child goes. It makes her unsure if her child is seen when she's upset. When some ask the question, Where is an adult? It is not always easy to answer. But when we later press the green button, Pernille, along with thousands of other parents, will have the prospect that from next year there will be more educators in crèches and in kindergartens • skilled adults who can comfort Pernille's children when they get upset. Pernille lives in Køge, and therefore there is a certain probability that she has voted for Jacob Mark. And if she has, she has been directly instrumental in her children's experience next year that there will be more adults around them. Then she too has seen that politics makes a concrete difference. At the table is Daddy Per, too. Per doesn't say much, and he can pull a little bit into himself when there's bigger companies, because Per's mind beats knots. Per has experienced that the story of our health care is a story about two cities. A story in which the somatic, the physical diseases, are treated at a level of world class. And another story about a city where psychiatric conditions and the treatment of people with mental disorders are lagging behind. For example, if Per has voted on the Enhedslisten for better help, his voice has also made a decisive difference, even if Per belongs to one of the patient groups that do not always speak the most highly. When we adopt the financial bill a little later, we will also adopt a much-needed and absolutely necessary boost to psychiatry. I think we and Per can be very happy with that. Then there's cousin Tobias walking in the second grade. He's gone to climate demonstrations the last year with his high school buddies. I don't know what's going on with that cousin Tobias. It's like something's happened to him in the last few months. He's started wearing a turtleneck, and then he's started making such weird hearts every time there's a camera nearby, and then he keeps watching videos with French President Macron on YouTube. If the behavior is to be interpreted there, that Tobias has voted for Sofie Carsten Nielsen or Morten Østergaard or others from the Radical Left, then also Tobia can be very happy when he eats the red cabbage • or red cabbage and red cabbage. In the spirit of cooperation, we can agree to call it Magenta cabbage. Fortunately, the cries made by Cousin Tobias and his peers against us politicians have been heard here in Denmark. Through a massive investment in green research, the Finance Act provides more money for land take-offs and for a significant boost to both more new forest and more old untouched forest for the benefit of biodiversity. So cousin Tobia as well as those of his friends, who may have a more alternative observance, can be really happy. They will have one of the world's most ambitious climate laws with binding targets. The Finance Act gives them a green fund of 25 billion. DKK, which triggers Danish export of green solutions. They will receive increased climate assistance. Yes, we can say that it is so much a green button that we will have to press later today. Then there's Uncle Torben too. Uncle Torben is a teamed man. He's the owner and manager of a major blacksmith company. He is becoming an older master, so he would like to hand over the business to his two adult children. In his quiet mind, Torben may not be entirely satisfied. It has become more expensive for him to pass on the company in succession, and the tax relief on the free telephone that the Left had put him in view has also been cancelled. I hope, of course, that Uncle Torben, on the other hand, can see that even if there were no money for the left's tax cuts, the money will be well invested in Denmark's future. They are invested in welfare, they are invested in the green area, and they are also invested in education so that it becomes easier for Uncle Torben and others like him to hire skilled employees in the future in his business. We must remember that even if it is Christmas, the money does not hang on the Christmas trees. The Minister of Finance is not a Santa Claus. We promise no revolutions, we don't magic, we don't buy the whole world, and we don't promise it either. But what we promise is that in all our work, with all our strength, we will move in the direction that the Danes have voted: towards better welfare, towards a faster, stronger and more far-reaching green transition, towards more security, more equality and a fairer Denmark. We'll do it without playing Santa. The good we do with the Finance Act is an expression of priorities. This means fewer consultants, away with the biased tax cuts of the Left, and that we must levy taxes that improve public health and give less plastic in our nature. We will not solve all the world's problems, we will not solve all Denmark's problems, but we will take a first important step, and I am extremely pleased about that. The financial bill has, of course, been met by the opposition's criticism. That is quite fair, and it is probably almost expected and also entirely according to the book. To the criticism, I think it is first of all to say that if we stick to the biased tax concessions of the Left, if we do not want to give priority and less to those who have much in advance, then the Left is short of 2.6 billion. kr. to the welfare and to the green, if you compare with what the government and the parties behind the Finance Act can do. In the election campaign, the Left advertised that they would provide the same welfare as the Social Democratic Party just without obtaining new income. Today we can see black and white, that the world is not that good, of course. I think it is quite fair to criticise the Finance Act, but it can only be taken very seriously if the Left at the same time indicates where they will spend less money. Is it less money for the green? Are those fewer nurses? Is it the kids who don't need any more pedagogues? Is it the teachers who don't need any more colleagues? Or is it the psychiatry that doesn't need a boost? Those answers have not come with the Christmas spirit; we still need those answers. I look forward to a very good debate. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218091127	I would like to thank the rapporteur for this. Now we have 45 minutes for short remarks, and I think I can say that we are not reaching everyone. But we'll try to share the sun and wind right from up here. The first to a brief remark is Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218091138	Thanks for the speech. It was completely in the Christmas spirit, and that's good. You can go into the universe, where Cousin Torben, or whoever it was, sat and hung a little with the mule at the Christmas table, sat, but where I also think there were two others who did not get mentioned in the speech, namely nephew Per and then cousin Claus. And they may also be a little concerned about how and how it is with their workplace when you get into the situation that the generational tax is being raised so dramatically. That is why one might ask whether the criticism does not make an impression. One thing is that employers are critical, because of course one can only think that they are in any case, but what about many of the trade unions who have joined the fight and have been very critical and have warned against raising the tax, because, they say, it helps to weaken Danish business and hence also the healthy jobs that are in Denmark? Has social democracy been impressed with the criticism that has come from the trade union movement?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218091237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218091241	After all, we always listen to the input coming from the surrounding world when we adopt a Finance Act... we do so a little later today... and when we discuss the issues that come within the scope of the Finance Act. I just think it is important to say that when we roll back the tax relief that the Left gave to corporate heirs, making a change that means paying the same tax, regardless of what you inherit, that is, whether you inherit a large company or whether you inherit a estate or a large house or something else, we do so because we do not think there was any money for that tax relief. And we are also doing so with a lot of calm in our stomachs, because, for example, the former tax minister, Mr. Karsten Lauritzen said very clearly that it is not a question of jobs, that is to say that jobs are not lost. The wise men have said the same thing very clearly. The OECD recommends that there is this coherence and balance in the tax system in terms of inheritance, so as to avoid the speculation that will result when different rates of inheritance are made. So we give priority here, but jobs will not be affected.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218091347	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218091350	Thank you. Well, now I'm not so interested in what the OECD and others might think, now I'm really interested in what 3F and Dansk Metal think, and it's some people who don't normally support the Left in one and all. I think you can say that here today. So I thought that somehow it must make an impression when even 3F, who is certainly not known to be the banner leader of a bourgeois revolution, warns the government. So I wonder whether what Per Christensen, the President of the 3F, says is actually not a good argument, namely that this is helping to make the lives of Danish employees miserable.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218091427	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218091431	It may be that Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen does not want to listen to the economic wise men, but, I think, it must make a certain impression on the Left that even the Left's own former tax minister, Mr. Karsten Lauritzen, in a reply to the Danish Parliament, has said very clearly that it does not cost jobs when you roll back the tax relief on the inheritance of company heirs that the Left introduced. It does not cost jobs. That is why, of course, we also listen to all parties and have an in-depth dialogue with the trade union movement. I think we will just have to bear in mind here that this will not cost jobs, but rather that it will allow us to invest in education, for example.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218091507	Then it's mr. René Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218091510	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There's not much new under the sun. After all, in the Danish People's Party we had expected that we would now see a new Social Democracy. But I can understand, and I can also hear from the rapporteur, that there are at least some things that are not mentioned in the rapporteur's speech. We are back on time from 2011 to 2015 under Helle Thorning-Schmidt-Schmidt and Bjarne Corydon, because what is happening now? We are getting relief from foreign policy and the top tax line is rising. The top tax limit moves from 513,000 DKK. for 531,000 kroner. What is the reason why the Social Democratic Party has spent four years in opposition to say that a strict immigration policy would be pursued and that, as soon as you have been given the post, you start by relaxing foreign policy? This finance bill is a fight with the repatriation policy. Can the rapporteur not confirm that it is now the case that if you come to Denmark and get a stay under the asylum rules and you have had a job for two years and you are in employment and what you have fled from, you will not be repatriated, but then you can stay in Denmark even if your residence has disappeared?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218091617	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218091620	I don't think it's quite fair that sir... René Christensen says there's nothing new under the sun. I don't think that's quite right either. With the Finance Act that we are discussing today, we lift public consumption significantly. We'll raise it to 1.3%. We are far above covering the demographic trait, and that means much stronger welfare for, for example, the elderly, which I know the Danish People's Party is very concerned about and has also fought well for in the past. So on the subject of saying that there is nothing new under the sun, I think that Mr. René Christensen has to read the deal again. This is a new direction for Denmark. It is a Finance Act in which we respond to the questions and demands made by the Danes when they voted. When we have spent four years in opposition to say that we are on the verge of a strict and broadly based immigration policy, it is because we mean it, and it is also reflected in our financial law agreement, where we do not change the rules for refugees. They will still lose their asylum if there is peace in their country of origin. Then we'll make some business arrangements; that's right. But we are, of course, on guard against the tight immigration policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218091727	Sir. René Christensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218091731	I am glad that the rapporteur says that it is true that foreign policy has been relaxed and that it is now not being sent home. This means that you do not have a return policy; you can stay in Denmark. We have now given the trader concerned the right to remain in Denmark, and that is not what the state decides anymore, so we have taken a stand against it. So I would also like to ask the rapporteur when he talks about the welfare society: is this a society that increases inequality or reduces inequality? I can answer the question: it increases inequality. Why does it increase it? It is not because some people are getting richer, no, it is because some people are getting poorer. I have always heard from the Social Democratic Party that inequality was a bad thing. It was really bad when some people got rich, and now you vote for a budget law where some people get poorer.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218091807	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218091810	Of course, the financial law we are adopting here does not increase inequality. When you look at the Finance Act as a whole and you relate to what you should do, of course, what we do for the welfare, health and education on which especially the people who have the least depend, this is a financial law that clearly, clearly increases equality. It increases the possibility of social mobility, it increases the possibility that people who do not have so much money can also receive world-class treatment when they go to the hospital and that you get through the education system well, that it is not the parents' background and finances that determine how you are doing in school.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218091846	Thank you. Then it's Sofie Carsten Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218091849	Thank you for that, and thank you for the fine words. If Cousin Torben, or whatever his name, has voted radically in the second g, he may well be out in the shoes, but it may be the next election, where hopefully he has been 18 years old and can see that we have driven Denmark in a much greener direction. I think we will have the greenest Finance Act ever, but does the rapporteur not agree that it could actually have become much greener? We could, for example. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I was against this view of the Socialists at the time, but since the financial agreement has been concluded, there are new tones, at least from the Minister for Transport. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur: will the Socialists help to introduce an air tax and use that revenue to make Denmark greener by converting into a greener aviation fuel and plant forest?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218091955	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218091958	I would like to say that although the people may have certain fictitious elements, I have of course done my research. It is clear that if you have included the 10th grade, you can go in the 2nd grade and at the same time have voted in the parliamentary elections. And Cousin Tobias has definitely voted for the Radicals there is no doubt there. In relation to whether the Finance Act could have been greener, I would say, yes, it could have been. We can always give more and more priority to the green, but we also have a responsibility and, as I have said in my speech, the money does not hang on the Christmas trees and the Minister for Finance is no Santa Claus. We have a responsibility to ensure that there is a balance and I think that we are taking one, and I think the rapporteur agrees with me, significant steps towards the green transition. After all, these are steps that we will continue to take, and certainly together with the Radical Left, in negotiating the climate action plan in the spring. Here we have to look at this flight tax. I am not now going to judge how it is to be arranged, how we are to do it, but what I just want to stress is that, of course, we have a responsibility to ensure that air traffic is also converted and greener.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218092100	Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218092103	That is good to hear, because it would give us an income that we could then spend on converting green, and therefore not be something where we should pull more money out of the room. So it will really be a way to put pressure on the green transition. I hope the Socialists will be involved in this as we negotiate the climate action plan. Unfortunately, there have also been some new figures showing that these have been wrong figures in the past, and it is certainly not the rapporteur's fault that agriculture's CO2 is so I would like to know whether the Socialist rapporteur agrees that, in this context and with the significantly greater CO2,
ParlaMint-DK_20191218092153	We have to keep to time just a little bit, otherwise there will be many more who will not. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218092200	I read the article yesterday about the CO2 of agriculture There is no doubt that this makes the task bigger. If we are to be one of the countries in the world that tackles the climate change that stands to destroy the livelihoods of many people on this planet, we will also, of course, have to take the same course as we talked about before with air traffic to ensure that agriculture is converted. So the job's gotten bigger, yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218092237	Then it's mr. Rune Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218092241	After all, this financial law has become very good in many ways, and I thank you for the voice of Mr Per. After all, the increase in psychiatry that we have achieved has been possible because the growth in public consumption that we see is not just the demographic move, but we are actually going through the ceiling, so we are going over the full demographic move. We are going through the ceiling on the prosperity-proof demographic trait, which is, of course, what ensures that public expenditure and the public sector do not lag behind the rest of society. Therefore, I think that since this is the result of this Finance Act, why does the Social Democrats only have the objective of increasing the growth of public consumption by the demographic trend, when one could have the objective of increasing the growth of public consumption in line with the prosperity-proof demographic trend or the full demographic trend, as it is also called? Because it would be a little strange to make a financial law next year, when the public sector is lagging behind the rest of society.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218092345	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218092349	Thank you for the question, and I would also like to acknowledge the other way to the Enhedslisten and Mr. Rune Lund for good cooperation with the Finance Act and also just again sign that Enhedslisten really fought for the cause in terms of welfare broadly, but especially in relation to psychiatry, which is crucially important. It is true that, with the help of Enhedslisten and other good parties, we have created a financial law that really boosts our public sector better, and we are doing so because the public sector was dealt with in a breathtaking manner under the blue. With the re-priority contribution, money was removed every year, compared to how many new people the welfare state had to provide a service to. So it is absolutely crucial that we give a boost to the public sector. I think the Danes have expected that too. That's why they gave us the keys, and that's why they didn't give the blue keys. So we have to take that responsibility. In relation to demographic features, we have said very clearly that we must ensure that the demographic move is covered, so that when there are two older ones, we do not only have money for one; we actually have money for both of them. I also have to say that there is only one demographic trait, and that is the demographic trait that is being defined over in the Ministry of Finance. Then, year by year, we can take the political debate on whether or not we can do more.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218092456	Then it's mr. Rune Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218092501	It is about the growth of the public sector following the growth of society. It was normal. That was the neutral starting point ten years ago. It was changed with Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen. This was continued under the Thorning-Schmidt government, and after many years we are actually back in a situation where the growth of public consumption follows the growth of society in general, even a little more, which is only fair when it comes to cleaning up after many years of cuts and deterioration. And then I just say: why should we not once again make this the neutral starting point, because the demographic trend in itself will lead to the public sector falling behind the rest of society?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218092537	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218092540	Again: I think it is important to make it clear that you can have many views on the demographic trait, but there is one measure of the demographic trait, and that is the one that we have over in the Ministry of Finance. I think you have to deal with that when you talk about demographic features. If we then talk more broadly about political priorities and welfare, I would say that we have made a very strong welfare finance law together this year. That piece of art repeats the government very much in the future. We have no ambition to make one financial law that strengthens welfare and then make others that do the opposite. We have taken the first step, and we are happy to take further steps, also with the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218092612	Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218092619	Thank you. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his good cooperation on a very good financial law. It follows the understanding paper made by the government and its support parties this summer, and in that understanding paper there is a lot about fighting inequality. It's really important to all of us, I dare say. The developments that have been going on for many years must be reversed, and this is an ambition that we have written down in the paper of understanding and with which I believe the rapporteur also agrees. Now we are in the weird situation that we have a really nice financial law with a huge increase in welfare, with the abolition of the parental purchasing system, with the implementation of the housing and gift tax to the 15%. again, and then we have a technical projection of the Gini coefficient which shows that this finance law actually increases inequality a little bit. Does the rapporteur not agree with me that there are, therefore, some huge blind spots that we need to look at in order to get a true picture of equality?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218092729	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218092731	Well, one can just say quite calmly that the Gini Coefficient does not take into account, for example, the fact that we roll back the tax reduction to corporate heirs, a tax relief that allows us to spend 1 billion. kr. more on welfare, and which of course goes from corporate heirs, which by their very nature are some of those who have the most. When that element is not included in the Gini coefficient, it is clear that then one must conclude that there are limitations on how much one can actually use the Gini coefficient for. I think there is no doubt about that, and of course anyone who wants to enter into a serious debate on the issue will also be able to see that. I can hear that, of course, the rapporteur can, and we fully agree on that. Having said that, I think that one of the most important things we have done to combat inequality together in this financial law, and one of the things that I am most pleased that we have done together, is that we really strengthen the welfare institutions and the community on which people who have the least depend most. I think that's where we make the biggest difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218092833	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218092837	Thank you. I am not surprised that we are in agreement, nor do I think that the Gini coefficient should be thrown out as a unit of measurement with the bathing water, but we must ensure that it is actually much more accurate. The reason why we are getting the picture we are doing today is because we are looking at incomes and not wealth. One of them, and perhaps this is a small wish in the large drawing that SF had, was that we should have an inequality statement in the future, just as we have an economic statement. Because we simply need to focus on some huge areas in order to get the right picture, for example. The fortunes in Denmark. Does the rapporteur not agree that this is an area in which we need to correct the situation in order to get the correct picture of what is happening with equality?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218092916	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218092919	First of all, I would like to say quite frankly that at first I had a tight time with the inequality statement, and this was a little linked to the fact that it was presented in the middle of the autumn holiday, where I was in a summer house, so I had to spend a whole day standing outside the summer house in the rain and commenting on SF's proposal, but since I have got over it, I fully agree with Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen and SF that we need an inequality statement, because we can see that with the figures that have come out today. We do not have enough data to say, for example, about such a large complex as the Finance Act and what it really does for inequality. Inequality is also more than economics: health, education and so on.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218092953	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218092956	I believe that most economists agree that the most acute challenge for the Danish economy is currently a shortage of labour. When I was Minister for Business, I could not go out to visit a company without telling them that their biggest problem at the moment was simply attracting employees. Then it may be annoying that the Social Democrats, the government and the support parties are making a financial law which reduces the number of Danes available for the labour market. Over the past many decades, we have had governments, including social democratic governments, which have made reforms that have made Denmark richer, which have got more people into work. That is the basis for having such a strong economy as we have today. Now the government is changing course and making a Finance Act that reduces the number of people available to the labour market, weakens growth, makes Denmark poorer, while at the same time we could see yesterday in the Stock Exchange that it was calculated that all income groups actually get less money in their hands. Why have the Social Democrats taken the course that is more like Anker Jørgensen than it is similar to Thorning and Nyrup?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218093104	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218093107	What we are doing with the Finance Act is actually taking very, very seriously the challenge of corporate labour shortages. This is how you look at our economic scenario in the next few years, we see a situation where we get an increase in the supply of work by 100,000 by 2025. However, it has not been done simply by observing that there is an increase in labour supply; we must also make sure that the people available actually have some competences that are being sought after in the business world, and that is why I would like to say that one of the most important things we have done for Danish business with our financial law is to remove the re-priority contribution that Mr. Rasmus Jarlov among others. was responsible for cutting down on education. Now, instead of investing in education, we are investing in the skills they need, and we are investing in continuing training, so that some of the people outside the labour market can come in with the right skills, and then we are actually making it easier to recruit foreign workers, of course within a controlled framework, but we are doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218093213	Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218093218	I could also understand from the rapporteur's speech before that the answer to those who are dissatisfied with that, for example. business is being downgraded, is that one should be glad that there are some selected groups of public employees who are getting a little more. But is that also the answer to the people at the bottom of society, the group in Denmark with the lowest income, who get less money in their hands, namely that they should be happy that there is now a little more money in the universities or that there are some more nurses being hired? Do not the Socialists worry about how much money the Danes have? Because it works when you look at the financial bill as if the Socialists care most about how much money the public has.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218093250	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218093253	What the Social Democratic Party cares about is that we ensure equal opportunities in Denmark, that we ensure that whatever family background one has, one has the opportunity to get the maximum out of one's potential, and therefore the figures presented yesterday show that the Stock Exchange is not even important enough to get on paper today, and that comes from an answer in the Ministry of Finance, only one side of the matter, because they relate only to how the Finance Act generates revenue. They do not relate to how we lift the welfare society, how, with more money for education, we provide better opportunities for social mobility, or how people coming from foreign educational homes get a real chance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218093330	Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218093333	From here, too, I should like to thank you for your cooperation, not least for the very good process we had in making this financial agreement. I actually think we got smarter together along the way and learned from each other. Something that we are really very concerned about is how we will also get on with the green transition. Yes, it is a green budget law, but it is far from enough in relation to the big, big tasks we have ahead of us. After all, something we have brought in is a study of green bonds, and we are, of course, very happy about that. That was one of the things that I spent a lot of time on at first reading of the government proposal. However, does the rapporteur agree that we must go much further if we are to respond to both the climate crisis we are facing and the climate law that we have fortunately also agreed on?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218093421	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218093424	I would also like to sign back and thank the Alternative and Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist for a very good course around the Finance Act. I believe that what we are doing with the Finance Act and the Climate Act and the Climate Action Plan that awaits us is the reason why the Minister for Climate Change can go to Madrid and be honoured for Denmark to take the lead and to be awarded the prize that, as far as I remember, is called "Ray of the Day'. In other words, the previous government had to travel to a climate conference and receive the award as today's Fossil, the climate minister can now travel to Madrid and get the prize, because we are one of the countries that makes allerallermost to tackle climate change, and the fact that we are in that situation today, we can very much thank Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist and the alternative for. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist mentioned some of the concrete examples that the Alternative brought to the table. The green bonds, which are one of the things we are looking at, the strengthening of the Climate Council, which will be a key player in the green transition and the journey we are going to make, are some of the things that the alternative brought to the table, which means that, overall, we have a better financial law.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218093532	Thank you. Rasmus Nordqvist, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218093536	Thank you. Yes, it was great to see the reception at COP25, which was otherwise deeply disappointing, of this climate law. In every possible way, this is a good, progressive financial law, green within the framework. However, if we are to solve the tasks we have in connection with the green transition, we must also dare to think out of the box, forward and not just within the framework. What I really want to ask the rapporteur is whether the rapporteur and his party are in on it: that now we have to move on and find the new solutions to how we deal with the major challenges.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218093610	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218093612	I fully agree with that, and the government agrees with it, and it can be seen at the level of ambition that we have set in order to achieve the objective. So, a 70-percent target for CO2 We are so ambitious in terms of emissions of climate gases that we do not even know how to get there. Therefore, if we are to solve the task that science has defined for us, as young people have defined, as the alternative has helped to define that we are thinking out of the box. That is also why we have spent money on research, which is to ensure that we have the tools to achieve our goal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218093650	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218093654	Thank you. I have to go back to the Christmas party. I think you forgot one, and it was the schizophrenic cousin Christian who was a social democrat, who says that you do not relax foreign policy when you do exactly the opposite; the schizophrenic cousin Christian who says that it is not going to be more expensive to be a Dane when that is exactly what is happening; and the schizophrenic cousin Christian who says that there will be more teachers when there is absolutely no requirement that that is what the municipalities should spend the money on. So my question is whether the schizophrenic cousin Christian doesn't wake up after the hangovers from Christmas parties and New Year's Eve and says: okay, maybe you have to be honest, and maybe you have to go to a doctor, so we can get rid of these diseases, where you say one thing to the people, but then do something else.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218093736	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218093740	I think I should start by saying that I think schizophrenia is a little too serious a disorder to throw that diagnosis at political colleagues. Seeing a doctor also seemed to me to be a little off the dial. Having said that, as I said to the previous rapporteur, we have said in the election campaign and also after the elections that we are, of course, watching for a strict and broadly based immigration policy, and we are still doing so. This can also be seen as reflected in our draft Finance Act, which does not move on to the tight immigration policy that Denmark should pursue for many reasons and must pursue and will pursue. What we are saying to the companies is that if they have a refugee employed and had him employed for two years and then he loses his residence as a refugee, then we will not give him the basis of residence as a refugee. The residence is gone, but we give him the opportunity to stay in the country as long as he is at work and then he must leave Denmark. I think that is sensible, and these are the companies I am asking for.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218093845	Thank you. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218093848	Yes, but like the rapporteur, I have also spent a long time finding fictional people, so I do not understand what the rapporteur is talking about there. But I would like to know if you went into this with these teachers, as they say, with the Finance Act. Where is the guarantee that there will be more teachers in the municipalities? The KL itself has said that it is not certain that they will spend the money on more teachers. Then you decorate yourself with borrowed feathers when you say that there are more teachers coming out in primary school. There may also be more educational projects or more in the central administration. Actually, we don't know.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218093919	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218093922	I see the last question as part of that criticism, which one can describe as regretting the opposition that we are not introducing social democratic policies quickly enough. We have allocated funds to several teachers, and we are strengthening the primary school together by up to 1 billion. kr. in the year of estimates. It was a wish which was broadly based and which, for example, the Radicals have aired on several occasions and which we fortunately agreed in the Financial Act. Now, together with the KL, we need to ensure that the money is actually going to get some more teachers, so that the teachers we have out there get better time and so that the teachers we have out there ensure that they also have the opportunity to see some of the students who are having a bit of difficulty. This is one of the reasons why this financial law is, for example, very good in terms of preventing inequality, because it provides more teachers who can see some of the children who are having difficulty.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218094013	Thank you. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218094021	Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen's speech was very much about the places where the government's draft Finance Act will spend more money in the public sector. But there is also a bill that needs to be paid, and unfortunately it is the case that everyone is going to pay for this financial law. Everyone gets poorer. Whether it's the sisters Anne and Pernille, whether it's Father Per or Cousin Tobias or Uncle Torben, they all get poorer as a result of this bill. The figures from the Ministry of Finance show that. Is it really the goal of social democratic politics and red politics here in 2019 to make all social groups, no matter what income they have, poorer?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218094106	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218094109	I simply think that this is a misleading discussion, and I think it is to place too much emphasis on such things as the Gini coefficient, for example. I think that the rapporteur reads it in a narrow and rather silly way. Because it is not only possible to focus on the impact of the tax side on the economy. You also have to focus on what it does for the people who have the least, the people who have the most difficulty in raising the quality of our welfare institutions. Otherwise, the discussion does not really make sense. As far as funding is concerned, we are fully aware that we have given priority. There's no magic, there's no Santa here. We are giving priority to rolling back the unfair tax cuts that the Blue Government was guaranteeing. We give priority to fewer consultants. We give priority to taxes on plastic bags and disposable services, which at the same time do something good for our nature. We give priority to tobacco taxes, which do something for public health. I stand by and we stand fully by the priorities set out in the draft budget because they allow us to invest in welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218094211	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218094214	I didn't say a word about Gini coefficient and inequality. I was talking about the money people actually have at their disposal out there. It is the case that regardless of the income you have in this society, you belong to a group that, overall, has less money available as a result of this Finance Act than if there had been no initiatives in the Finance Act. This also applies to the people who the red parties in the election campaign said were poor and who the red parties in the election campaign said they would make richer; they also get less money available with this financial law. You want me to understand, sir? Christian Rabjerg Madsen is such that it is quite unproblematic that they become poorer because, in return, more educators come to kindergarten?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218094254	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218094257	I would like to discuss Ginicoefficients or distributional implications, which is what the rapporteur is focusing his attention on in the question. I just think it is silly to discuss distributional implications or Gini coefficients if we do not at the same time relate to what we are actually doing. Some of the people who benefit most from our financial law are, after all, those who are now outside the labour market and who have the least, and who, with more continuing training, are given the opportunity to get some skills that are actually in demand, to enter the labour market, to join the working community, to join a community where there will also be something more for them and theirs at the end of the month. That's what this Finance Act does.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218094329	Then all the financial rapporteurs have spoken, and we shall now proceed to Members in the order in which they have joined us. But since there are approx. 15 minutes to go, I promise we won't make it to everyone. First, it's sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218094345	I think we really deserve an answer to the last question. The consequence of this financial law is that all Danes become poorer. If you don't pass this Finance Act, it would be different. This has nothing to do with the Gini coefficient, and the Socialist rapporteur should then be able to reply to that: why is it a goal for the Social Democrats to make all Danes poorer? That is the consequence. It's not something relative, it has nothing to do with Gini coefficients. It would be liberating to have an answer as to why a social democratic government, which in its own economic statement says that growth in Denmark will fall next year, believes that the answer then is to make a financial law that reduces labour supply and makes us all poorer. What problems will be easier to solve if we, as a society, become poorer with this financial agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218094435	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218094439	But Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen is also aware that the distributional implications which will be the consequence of the Finance Act are largely driven by our changes to the tobacco price, and this is, I believe, a price increase that the Left agrees with, and I even think that the Left would like to see it introduced more quickly. I would very much like to discuss the economic consequences of the Finance Act. I just think it is too narrow a picture of the opposition. We can't just look at distributional implications. We also need to look at where we are actually using these funds with this financial law. After all, we are using the funds to make Denmark richer. We spend the money on training, so that companies get highly qualified labour. That is what Danish companies, in all modesty, live on. We spend the money on continuing training, as I have also said sometimes. You have to see it in its entirety if we are to have a rather serious and serious debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218094539	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218094543	I have given up a serious and serious debate when the rapporteur will not answer the key question at all. But could we at least have the wisdom that a company that is going to change the generation should now be emptied of more capital? That is, of course, the consequence of the threefold change of generation tax that the government is proposing. Does it not impress a Socialist rapporteur when business owners say: the money we should have invested for the next three years now needs to be used to pay generational tax? After all, the reality is a little different from the proportion of the wise men's quote that the rapporteur reads out. For the wise also writes that it can help to promote efficiency and productivity improvements to have a low generational tax if only the rapporteur wants to read the whole quote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218094626	Thank you. Then we'll get an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218094630	I think the rapporteur actually understands what I am saying. I think it might just take some time for the Left to get used to the fact that business policy is no longer limited to dealing only with top tax and business tax relief, but that the government actually sees business policy as something broader. It is business policy when we create a green fund that gives a proper boost to the export of green technology, which creates jobs and growth, and when we invest in education. Then we stand by completely rolling back the biased tax concessions of the Left to company heirs • people who already have the most.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218094701	Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218094710	Thank you for that, President, and also thank the rapporteur, who just mentioned top tax. This led me to think about what is really happening in this area next year with the Finance Act being passed. Now there has been a lot of talk, and this is a bit of the debate that has certainly also been in the Ministry of Finance with the parties the government chooses to support. However, is it not quite understood that the top tax limit will rise next year with the financial law for which the rapporteur is here aiming, and when he says that, quote, priority is given to roll back blue tax relief, quote the end, how is that to be understood in this context? Is this such a clever reference to the fact that the tax relief which will then be applied to the richest next year has actually been invented by the former Socialist Government under Mrs Helle Thorning-Schmidt, and that only tax increases and tax reductions have been adopted by the blue bloc, which is intended to change, because what has been done itself, which is against one's own policy, is still in sight? How does that work, sir? Christian Rabjerg Madsen?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218094814	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218094819	With the Finance Act, we are not changing the top tax line. We are rolling back the tax cuts that we think are biased, which we also have the wise men's word for is not to the detriment of Danish business and which does not cost Danish jobs, but which, on the contrary, equates inheritance tax in Denmark, thus avoiding speculation in connection with inheritance. What we are getting out of creating equality is that it is the operational circumstances on the part of companies that determine whether we are making an inheritance, not speculation in our tax system, and that is one of the reasons why the wise men think that it is sensible for us to roll back that tax relief and one of the reasons why the OECD is demanding that countries do the same. So we roll back the tax cuts that we think are unreasonable and use the funds we have at our disposal to give priority to welfare, give priority to setting the green transition in motion, and I am happy to set that goal in motion.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218094920	Morten Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218094923	Well, that was also a mighty fine answer. It was just not an answer to me, at least not to the question I asked. I even asked, inspired by the rapporteur, for the top tax credit that will be granted next year, in the financial year we are talking about here, and I would just like the rapporteur to confirm this and that this may also be part of the reason why inequality is increasing. If you look at the fact sheet we have got over from the Ministry of Finance I would almost believe that the rapporteur also has it; I think it has been stamped on 5 December then the Ministry of Finance confirms that there is an increase in inequality. It could, of course, have something to do with the fact that the Socialist Government is applying a relaxation of the top tax. Can the rapporteur reflect on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218094959	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218095004	I just have to say quite clearly that the Finance Act does not change the top tax limit. We're not gonna change the top tax line with the Finance Act. On the contrary, we have rolled back a number of tax concessions which we think were unreasonable and the distributional implications which have been transmitted and which have been referred to by a newspaper yesterday are mainly and mostly about the change in tobacco prices, a change which is not so much driven by the desire for revenue or fiscal issues, but which is about fewer young people having to start smoking. That is why we support the need for cigarettes to cost more.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218095039	Then it's mr. Preben Bang Henriksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218095045	Thank you. I return to the rapporteur's genealogy. In it we had Uncle Torben. He was so happy and it was because the government had tripled the inheritance tax for the heirs who were to take over his business. I have to say that he appears to be in the socialist imagination. I don't think a lot of other people have met that type. But I'd like to get hold of someone else. There was Daddy Per, too. He did not say much, the rapporteur said. Could it be, for example, because he who has spinned and saved his whole life and today is sitting in a debt-free house, has got the Social Democratic programme into the mailbox • what is called Denmark is too small for big differences • and it has read that the inheritance tax for inheritance over 3 million. kr. In the view of the Social Democratic Party, the increase should be 30%.? I therefore ask that I actually have an interest in many Danes: is it still the policy of the Social Democratic Party that the general inheritance tax should be set at 30%??
ParlaMint-DK_20191218095136	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218095140	I think, in fact, that in examining the people who were present at the Christmas table, I was also very honest about some of the priorities set out in our draft budget. In fact, I said very clearly about Uncle Torben, who is a company heir, that I do not think he necessarily thinks that our roll-back of the tax relief that Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen among others. was responsible for, is a good idea. I say quite frankly that I can well imagine that there are people who disagree with us. I am just saying, on the other hand, that the priority for which we are aiming has no impact on growth. It does not have any impact on jobs, but it enables us partly to have an inheritance tax system that is more balanced and partly to provide a revenue which we can invest in welfare and which we can invest in the green. So, of course, there are priorities. Of course, there are different views on our draft budget, and we are happy to defend that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218095238	Preben Bang Henriksen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218095241	Does the Social Democratic Party continue to believe that the general inheritance tax should be increased from 15 to 30 per cent.?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218095246	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218095250	I'm sorry. I didn't get that before. It is, after all, a simplification of the proposal that we made, in which the Social Democratic Party thought that the general system of inheritance should also be made more progressive, so that in most families where large companies are not inherited, a small inheritance tax should be paid, and in families where very large values are inherited, a higher tax should be paid. So once again, it is no use focusing only on one side and not focusing on the playout in its entirety. We must do so if we are to have a serious and serious debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218095320	Thank you. Then we'll have two left when we get there. It's first, sir. Kristian Hegaard, then Mrs Louise Schack Elholm. First, sir. Kristian Hegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218095328	Thank you. Thank you for the picture-rich description, not only of the possible radical chooser, but also of the coming Christmas days. I'm also looking forward to sitting in Sunds in Herning shoveling sauce with chips. I may have been raised in North Zealand, but I'm lucky I'm well educated in Jutland. However, one of the threats to Christmas peace was, as the rapporteur also pointed out, that it has come to light that Danish agriculture is likely to contribute more to CO2 tonnes of climate gases equivalent to 3.2%. more discharge into Denmark. I would therefore like to hear from the rapporteur what the Socialists are willing to do in addition to what we have agreed in the draft budget. A few days ago, I think it was, the Minister of Transport was there to say that you might want to look at the air transport charge. That is why I wanted to know whether we could get a concrete answer from the Socialists today on whether we are prepared to introduce an air tax so that we can have further concrete CO2 emissions.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218095443	I have to say that once I have stood up, time has already passed. I do not actually stand up until we are well on the other side of the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218095455	Thank you for the question from Mr. Kristian Hegaard. First of all, when you're sitting at that Christmas dinner with the fat sauce well down in those Menychips and shoveling in, you have to remember to send a friendly thought to Danish agriculture, which actually makes the whole Christmas dinner possible. I also think that the Radicals should remember that and that everyone should remember that. The food comes from somewhere, and if it is extra good, of course it comes from Danish farmers. This does not change the fact that we have a greater challenge in relation to the climate impact of agriculture. And with the new figures, that challenge has increased. In other words, that challenge has increased, just as there is a challenge in our aviation sector. I would like to make it quite clear that we are ready to commit ourselves to the conversion of the air transport sector too, so that it cannot be misunderstood, and we are also ready to say that agriculture must be changed. And one of the things that you can continue to work on and that agriculture has also talked about, together with the Danish Nature Conservation Association, is to get some land distributions going, which take some of the most CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20191218095557	Thank you. Sir. Kristian Hegaard, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218095600	Thank you so much. After all, I am pleased to hear that we agree on the challenges, and I would also like to welcome the fact that the Socialists are now opening up the air transport sector and, hopefully, a flight tax. But I would like to know if there could be other things on slipping in the light of the rising challenges that the Socialists want to play out with quite concrete CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20191218095623	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218095626	In other words, if we stick to agriculture that is quite a big question... then it is clear that land distribution, which I just mentioned quickly, is one of the solutions that we must have looked at. It is also obvious that you can give more impetus to investments in, for example, stables, which emit less, you can work with a feed mix, which means that what comes out of the cow is less climate-laden. So there are a whole range of tools that we can use. I do not want to stand here today and say that we should do one thing rather than the other. We need to have a thorough discussion on where we get the most CO2 but I just want to say that there are, of course, tools that we know.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218095700	The last one we're gonna get in this round is Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218095706	Thank you. It is true that we have had a red government when all taxes and taxes are gradually going to increase. However, I can hear that the rapporteur speaks out a lot. In case we address the questions that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen and Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen asked, it was on the basis of a reply from Minister Nicolai Wammen about who it was who got more money between his hands as a result of this Finance Act. And then nobody gets that. No Danes get more money between their hands. And you have to understand that those who lose the most in 2025 are actually the poorest in Denmark. So what is the rapporteur's position on the fact that a social democratic government has now arrived? I could imagine that many of those who are the faintest in Denmark had expected that when a red rule came, they would be the ones who were about to feel better compared to everyone else. And then the opposite is happening. It is, in fact, those who suffer the most from the rise in taxes and taxes of the Socialists. What is the rapporteur's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218095757	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218095800	I can answer the questions, and so have I. I cannot take responsibility for whether the authors simply disagree politically, and I think that is what we are dealing with. It is clear that if you do not choose to give priority to tax cuts, no one will get more money in their hands. Let us now take a thoughtful example of a family that is an educational stranger, where there may be unemployment and where there is not so much money to do with. What is the most crucial for children in such families when it comes to getting it out of their potential and having good lives? It is then that when they come to the crèche, there are educators who take care of them and who see them and who also see if they have problems. It is then that when they go to primary school, there is a teacher who has extra time to take care of those who are having difficulty, so that we get the promise together, so that we ensure that the families where there are some challenges actually meet some welfare institutions that take care of them and ensure that they have real opportunities • real opportunities to get a good life and get something out of the potential. And that's why this Finance Act is doing so much to fight inequality in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218095902	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218095906	Okay, so I understand from the Social Democrats' rapporteur that it is quite all right that those who lose most on the Social Democrats' Finance Act are the poorest in Denmark. That is quite all right, because there will be one more teacher in every three day institutions next year, and then they will be able to send their children safely to day care. That is why it is quite right that the poorest people should pay the most for the Socialist Finance Act. Is that what I need to understand?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218095925	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218095926	But if we are to have a discussion about the distributional implications, which are also driven by the fact that tobacco is going to cost something more than that, which I understand the Left also agrees with, then we also need to look at what this financial law is doing. And what it does is to make sure that the children who come from homes where there are challenges, you take good care that they experience that there is attention, that they get extra help. And you know what, this Socialist government has many goals. One of the more important things is that we combat inequality, and we do this by ensuring that children who come from homes where there are problems are also taken care of in day care institutions and in primary schools. And that is what we ensure with the Finance Act, which invests in welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218100004	Thank you. Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Christian Rabjerg Madsen. Time's up, and we're moving on to mr. Troels Lund Poulsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218100024	Thank you. It's going well in Denmark. This has actually been confirmed again in the financial statement that was presented this week. The Danish economy is in top shape, employment is record high, never have there been so many in work as now. Asylum influx is at the lowest level in 10 years, and the economic space is greater than anyone had dared to hope for. And it is in every way wonderful, and one should rejoice about that. But surely there is also a need to add an important detail: the good times have not come on their own. They may not have required blood, sweat and tears, but they have required moderation, accountability and due diligence for more than a decade. When there are record jobs, this is due to the fact that companies dare to invest and that they also employ more employees. When more people take a job, this is due to the fact that it is worthwhile for the individual to make an extra effort. And when we have been able to strengthen integration, it is due to a firm and fair foreign policy where there are fewer people who come here and where we make greater demands on those who are here in Denmark. And since you can now invest more in welfare, this is due in particular to the fact that previous governments, blue and red, have made responsible reforms that have strengthened the economy, secured more hands and created the possibility of an economic space that we all now enjoy. So in other words: Denmark stands well right now, but we are also on the basis of many years of strong financial responsibility. Unfortunately, that foundation is weakened by the first financial law of the Socialist Government with the remaining left wing. In my view, our first and most important job here in the Danish Parliament is to build on the good things that are in the community not to tear them down. But in a number of areas, this financial law is going in the wrong direction. For the first time in man's memory, the Finance Act makes Denmark poorer, tax increases, employment weakens, it becomes more expensive to be a Dane, it becomes harder to create and maintain jobs in Denmark, it becomes more expensive for the ordinary Dane to buy a home, and hundreds of thousands of employees have to be taxed by their work phone. And it will also pay less to work. It is therefore in many ways a financial law that will be expensive for Denmark. But one thing is the financial bill; there is another bill. The benefits will also be increased for unemployed immigrants and refugees in particular with about DKr 2 000. tax-free per month. The immigration and integration policy is being relaxed across a broad spectrum, and a gap is being struck on the paradigm shift, which otherwise enjoyed broad political support earlier here in the Folketing, at least before the parliamentary elections. There was a former Social Democratic Prime Minister who went to the polls, I think, and I quote "to make good times better." You could say, if you take stock now before Christmas, that this government's policy is to make good times shorter. In this Assembly we in the Left have presented our financial law priorities. This is something that, I think, should be done when you are in opposition, and it also offers a good opportunity to discuss with the other parties. After all, we have shown that we can create growth, prosperity and prosperity and also ensure a green, ambitious transformation. We also show that we can deliver on the welfare promise that we gave the Danes in the election campaign. We are willing to invest in welfare, ensuring care, time and quality, as more children and more elderly people arrive. And we also show how to eliminate the re-priority contribution in the field of education and culture completely, and also continue with taximeter lift and much, much more. However, there are several crucial differences between the financial priorities of the Left and the agreement that has been reached. We believe that we can be ambitious without raising taxes. We will introduce a tax freeze to ensure continued security of the Danes' economy. We will ensure that Danish companies can quietly employ more employees and invest in new, modern technology. And we will also ensure the individual Dane's financial security, so that you can safely plan your own economy and save for the future. I think the finance minister said before the election that 95%. of all Danes would not experience higher taxes and charges. And here I just have to say quietly today that the Minister for Finance must then know a large number of Danes, whom I certainly did not personally know existed. For 100%. by the Danes I know will be affected by higher taxes and taxes. Social democracy has tried to simplify the discussion on taxation and welfare: it is claimed that the only way to be more ambitious in one area is to raise taxes for the ordinary Dane. However, this claim refutes this financial law itself, because, for example, the Finance Act spends more money on raising benefits and on relaxing foreign policy across the board. We think this is the wrong way to go. It costs money to raise benefits and relax foreign policy, and in my view that money was much better spent on strengthening welfare or ensuring a more ambitious green transition. In the same way, a saving of only 200 million on consultants is included. kr. in the Finance Act. We think that, and we have said this many times in the Left, it is fine to spend less money on consultants, including in the public sector. That is also why, later today, when the amendments are put to the vote, we will support the amendment from the Danish People's Party, because the Danish People's Party has elected, I believe that we will take the Social Democrats at their word and then put it to the vote here. Because it was a big discussion earlier this year. The Social Democrats said before the elections that 3 billion could be found. kr. per year to spend less money on consultants and spend them directly on welfare. And the fact is that if the government had lived up to the promise made, then all of their harmful tax increases could be dropped from all their harmful tax increases. And you are tempted to ask the Minister of Finance: if there really was such a simple relationship between tax increases and high ambitions, why does the government not raise the tax more? Then perhaps you could have fulfilled your vows to Arne and granted him the right to an early pension. Of course, the government does not do this because it is well aware and well aware that tax increases come at a high price. In the longer term, this will mean a loss of wealth and a reduction in jobs and thus also less well-being, in other words, Denmark will become poorer. There are no guarantees in politics. But there are clear differences, and this financial law shows this very clearly. The Finance Act raises taxes and charges for ordinary Danes. Left wants another way. We want a tax stop. The Finance Act will mean that fewer people take a job. Left wants another way. We believe that more people should be part of the working community. The Finance Act relaxes foreign policy across a broad spectrum. Left thinks it's the wrong way to go. We want to stand firm on a firm and fair foreign policy. It is going well in Denmark right now, as I also started by saying, but it will hardly go on forever. There are already challenges in the countries around us. We are under pressure, we are an open economy, and I am, in fact, very much in agreement with what the Minister of Finance said earlier this week: that Denmark is being influenced by our surrounding world. That is why we must also stick to the good developments we have. We must try to make good times better. Unfortunately, this finance law does the opposite: it makes good times shorter. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218100901	Thank you to the rapporteur. Now we have 45 minutes for short questions. First, it's sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218100911	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Troels Lund Poulsen for the speech. After all, when you make a budget bill, it is ultimately a matter of prioritising what you want to spend money on and where the money should come from. I think that was also a quote on the table of a former Left Finance Minister: where should the money come from? After all, the Left has said that they are opposed to the roll-back of tax relief to corporate heirs. The Left is also opposed to roll back the tax relief on the free telephone. The two proposals alone, if taken out of our draft budget, would mean that 1.5 billion was missing. kr. So 1.5 billion is missing. kr., if you are not ready to make the two priorities. These are two priorities that the Left is not ready to make. That is why the Left owes answers to where that money is to come from. If you look at the government's financial bill, are it the 1,000 more nurses who are not going to be implemented? Is it the psychiatry that doesn't have to be lifted? Are these the teachers we don't need any more of? Are these the educators we don't need any more of? We miss serious answers to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218101013	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218101015	Fortunately, those answers will come later today when there are amendments to be put to the vote, as I believe, Mr President. Christian Rabjerg Madsen has followed. However, we have, of course, put forward some of our funding elements on which we wish to vote. It is, of course, one thing that expenditure is being reduced and reduced in relation to the government reserve and also additional expenditure on new budget proposals, which are, of course, helping to provide more money and which can enable us to fulfil the political commitments we have made. It's quite natural. So did the Social Democrats when they were in opposition. But we say, for example. the temporary family allowance, which amounts to 300 million, must also be cancelled. kr., which one spends on giving mainly unemployed immigrant families more money • the 2,000 kr. tax-free per month. Then there is also the residence requirement for cash benefits as another area. So there is, in fact, a catalogue of proposals for funding. Personally, I am mostly looking forward to the vote coming later today on an amendment from the Danish People's Party to find money on the consultants, which was, of course, an election promise made by the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218101123	Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218101125	I know sir. Troels Lund Poulsen quite thoroughly from the work of the Finance Committee. We do not always agree, but I think that Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen is good. That's why Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen also good that this answer is not adequate. On the two taxes I mentioned alone, a further 1.5 billion is missing as early as next year. kr. In the budget year's budget year, there is a shortfall of 2.6 billion. kr., because you don't make priorities. Then it is just not done by knocking the reserves down to a level which, of course, is completely irresponsible. You gotta go find more money. You have to go out and make some priorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218101200	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218101201	I think sir... Christian Rabjerg Madsen must be careful with the rhetoric, i.e. the knocking down of the reserves. There I think it should be said that it was the Social Democracy able to do even better than the Left is, with the proposal we have here. So there must surely be the same rules when you are in government as when you are in opposition. On the day of the Social Democratic opposition again, it would be sad if we had to use these statements from Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen says you can't use a government reserve for funding. Of course you can.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218101231	Then it's mr. René Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218101234	Thank you. First of all, thank you for a good rapporteur's speech. I'd like to ask the Left something. I think everyone in here agrees that we have a welfare society. How is it financed? It is a tax-financed welfare society. Where do the taxes come from? They come from private. If we do not produce anything, we have nothing to tax. If we have nothing to tax, we do not have a welfare society either. So the discussion about 1,000 nurses or more in the Danish Tax Authority, the whole discussion about the welfare society, is based on how much money is available. Looking at the current draft budget, is it from the point of view of the Left a financial law that increases revenue, thus making it easier to be a company in Denmark, increasing employment, thus increasing the tax base, so that the Danish state becomes richer, so that we can make more prosperity, or is it a financial law that does not take care at all that we should actually be richer in Denmark, but on the contrary makes us poorer? And if we do, then the consequence is that there is less money for welfare. Does the rapporteur agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218101334	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218101336	Let me start by signing for the nice words about my rapporteur's speech. I would also like to start by saying that I thought those were some good questions. That's what you owe it to me to say. I agree one hundred percent that this financial law makes Denmark poorer. It has, in fact, already been revealed or illustrated here today. I also believe that a reply was actually received last night to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance, and it also took hold of it, namely that this is not something that does anything good for Danish society. That is the real problem. Because we all have an ambition that we want the Danish economy to grow and that we will have more money to spend doing things in society, whether it is to strengthen our core welfare or to provide better conditions of competition for Danish business. That is why it is precisely, one can say, the essence of this Finance Act, namely that nothing is going to make Denmark richer as a nation, and we are very sorry about that in the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218101440	Sir. René Christensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218101440-2	We are also very sorry about this in the Danish People's Party. If you look at a single case in connection with this Finance Act, there is a triple inheritance tax for family-owned companies. There are some who are quickly told a story that this is a few very, very large companies that have a great deal of money, and it is a challenge for the socialists that money accumulates there. However, can the rapporteur not confirm that we actually have some 400 family-owned companies that are transferred over the years? It is also the small carpenter business. It's agriculture. We have many different family-owned companies. And since you are doing this, you can actually risk that some of the big ones will become fund companies and thus also end up in foreign hands, and thus we will have a lower tax base.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218101519	Then it is the rapporteur who answers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218101522	However, the concern that the Danish People's Party is now mentioning here seems to me to have filled too little in the discussion, namely what is going to happen to small and medium-sized enterprises in particular. This deserves much more attention, including in the legislative procedure that is now taking place. What's the alternative for them? And I guess there are a few alternatives. Many small and medium-sized enterprises will not be able to make a generational change, so they simply die. It will primarily be some of the companies located in our rural areas, which is also known for the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and it is known to me. And then there will be others who may be handed over to a fund or the like, and I think that is actually an important discussion too.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218101600	Then it's Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218101603	Thank you. This Finance Act makes Denmark greener, and the alternative to becoming greener would be blacker, and then the good times would end completely. I think the Left rapporteur should remember that. But this financial law could actually have become even greener, and that is why I am concerned about finding out where the Left really stands when it comes to redeploying the air transport sector, including one of the major emitters. Would the Left help to impose a tax on the air transport sector if it were just a tax on CO2 2?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218101707	Then it is the Minister, no, the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218101710	Thank you. Prehistoricly it was once the Minister, but the rapporteur is now. We all share an ambition because we are facing a huge upheaval in the green transformation of what we look into with the climate law that a broad majority here at Christiansborg has made. After all, it is no secret that I have praised the Radical Left before for setting that agenda, probably in relation to achieving the 70% target. The 70 per cent target. there are many parties that have been stolen in this way since then, but let it be. The Left has taken an active part in the negotiations and, as such, also signs that it has ended up with a sensible agreement. Now we come to the hard part. It is then to translate that Climate Act into climate action plans. I really do not want to go into how to do it today, but I would like to give a commitment today that we are looking very openly at doing the most cost-effective and most sensible thing, so that this also ensures a green transition that preserves our well-being. We have to discuss this when the government then invites climate action plans negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218101821	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218101822	Well, I take that as an opening at least, and I also hope that the rapporteur recognises that room for manoeuvre has actually been used in this financial law to make Denmark greener. It was something the President of the Left also announced was going to, or at least was open to. So I hope that the Left supports and will vote in favour of this. Another part is now what is actually to be agreed here by the end of the year, so I hope the rapporteur can comment on that, because with the new figures for the much greater emissions into agriculture we must use all the means available. And here the restructuring of agriculture is one of the major tasks. We could do that with agricultural aid, the so-called flex funds. Will the Left be open to using the agricultural aid that comes from the European Union so that part of it can be taken into account precisely for greening?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218101917	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218101919	Thank you. We'll get around the curriculum today. The latter is what is called modulation in agricultural languages, i.e. the whole debate on the money from pillar 1 and pillar 2, where what comes from the aid per hectare in column 2 can then be used for green initiatives. That is where we need to negotiate a new framework for it. After all, a mandate must be given to the Minister, who must make an agreement on behalf of Denmark. Our message to the Minister is that it must, of course, go hand in hand with the fact that there is a responsible agricultural operation in Denmark, but also that the negotiations have the green transition in mind, and I am glad to await what the Minister then proposes in his negotiating mandate. We haven't seen that yet. However, we are constructively involved in that discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218102009	Even if you are advanced to the rapporteur, you have to remember to take time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218102019	After four years of under-funding of user-friendly welfare in the municipalities, with savings through re-priority contributions, namely savings on culture and on education, I would really like to ask the rapporteur where, in this financial law, money seems to be wasted. Because I understand on the Left that too much money is being spent in this Finance Act that it has to be cheaper to be a Dane. We think it should be better to be a Dane. That is why I would like to know where exactly it is that we should not have put in. Is that the 600 million? kr. In addition to strengthening psychiatry, is it the minimum standards for our children, namely more educators, is it the abolition of the educational ceiling, is it a record commitment to combating social dumping, or is it a 17-fold greater economic agreement for municipalities and regions than what the VLAK government had? Where is it that we should have saved?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218102129	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218102132	I would like to start by saying something positive, even though it may be far away from me, as has at least been said in today's debate. There are quite good elements to see in the draft Finance Act that lies and that we will also be supporting. We have also asked for some amendments to be put to the vote today precisely to show it. But I have already stressed some of the things that I think could have been done differently, for example. the temporary allowance. I think that is wrong. I do not think it makes sense to spend 300 million at all. kr. I think it goes to something that does not ensure that you have a link with the labour market. Then there is the residence requirement in relation to the daily allowance, which was introduced a year ago, namely to impose a residence requirement on when you earn entitlement to unemployment benefit here in Denmark. We had a huge discussion about that a year ago just in these days. That's what you get out of. We feel that this could have been maintained. Then there is also, as a third example, the abolition of participation payments on Danish education. It is, of course, an old agreement from the previous government with which we are now taking a stand. So these are just a few elements, and I can mention more.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218102232	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218102235	That sounds good. Does this mean that the Left suddenly supports us going further than just lifting the demographic move? Under a left-wing government, there has been massive under-financing of municipal welfare. Does this mean that the Left supports the abolition of the education ceiling, that we spend 300 million? kr. to avoid some savings at university, that we have introduced minimum standards and that we generally increase welfare by more than the demographic trait?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218102313	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218102314	It is not, of course, the case that we think we will just vote in favour of everything in the Finance Act, although as a responsible party we will end up supporting the draft Finance Act until the last part of the third reading tomorrow. We always do that in the Left, despite the fact that we then propose amendments to some of the things that are in the stomach of the Finance Act, if I may say so. But there are good elements in this financial law that we will also be supporting, for example. The effort in relation to the promise in the field of psychiatry. I would like to make it quite clear here today that this is a good and necessary measure. We are not going to support the education ceiling. That is where we shall vote no. There are good elements, but that doesn't mean we're one to one saying that this is exactly the way we would have done it, because we would have spent the money differently. I have, of course, been arguing in favour of this in my speech here earlier.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218102406	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218102408	How many 100 million? kr. or billion kr. Does the Left think this financial agreement should be smaller if it was left?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218102422	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218102423	I don't know if I can make up my ears. I can mention that there are several different initiatives that I think are wrong, and therefore I am also surprised that it should be necessary to raise taxes so considerably when we could have done so in other ways. I note that the whole discussion about consultants filled a lot before the election campaign. I also think I remember that the Enhedslisten was very interested in that agenda. So it can be said that the funding elements that are in it are in many ways inedible to us.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218102458	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218102459	Frankly, I think it is rather bizarre that the rapporteur from the Left cannot answer the simple question, because if the rapporteur from the Left actually answers that question, then we can move forward in the discussion and then ask what is to be deleted, as the rapporteur from the Left would otherwise think to be good initiatives in this. That is why I would like to ask again: how many hundreds of millions, or how many billions less, would this financial agreement be if it were left to the Left? If so, what is it that is going to smoke out? Is it psychiatry, is it the fight against social dumping, is it the primary school that should not have as much money, or is it the green transition that should not have money? Can we not get some concrete answers soon?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218102538	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218102539	That's one of them. the whole debate is going to go on. When you vote on the amendments, you can see what we are voting there. I have already announced what we are voting on some of the points. I have said that we are voting against abolishing the education ceiling. I have also said in the past that the cancellation of temporary family allowances is wrong. I have said that we will support the proposal that the Danish People's Party has to raise more money through savings on consultants. Then there are also a large number of reserves which still exist, which we also use as funding in order to give priority to the initiatives that we think are right. It makes a great deal of sense, and the rapporteur can sit down afterwards and put together and see that this is fully funded.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218102624	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218102627	There are not many positive words to be heard about the draft Finance Act by the rapporteur of the Left, even where it actually solves some of the tasks that the Left had promised to solve, such as abolishing the education ceiling, one is happy. But I would like to look forward. The rapporteur himself referred to climate action plans and so on, and it is clear that with this financial law we will not have all the funding needed for the green transition and to meet the objectives we have set ourselves together with the Climate Act. I would like to hear from the rapporteur how we intend to raise the funding for the conversion that we are about to undertake and the large investments that we also have to make on the part of the state.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218102710	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218102711	Thank you. In fact, I tried just now to say some nice things about elements of the government's financial bill, so I do not know whether there is anything wrong with the way I express myself, whether it is acoustics or what it is. I would like to acknowledge that there are good elements in it, and I think that should be done, because otherwise it will be a rather silly and polemical discussion. The green transition, I think, will be the biggest challenge for this Parliament over the next 10 years, and if anyone is it, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, who has been very aware of this in the negotiations on the Climate Act, in which I myself took part, together with Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist. I do not think that we can escape the fact that we also have to make use of the economic scope, that is to say, that Denmark will hopefully be richer in the coming years, to ensure this transition. After all, we have set up a very, very ambitious target and set out some principles for how and how it can be done. I believe that both creativity and political responsibility will be needed in order to achieve this. What one can well welcome is that it is almost a united Parliament that has committed itself to achieving this goal by 2030. It is basically quite historic, including internationally.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218102824	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218102826	I fully agree that this is historic. I am sure that the room for manoeuvre on the green transition will also have to be used, but when we look at the investments that need to be made, I am just concerned that we can do so within the framework that we usually work with fiscal policy, that is to say, that we can move around a little with the budget law and the room for manoeuvre. Does the rapporteur agree that we also need to look at other options, that we need to look at taxes and taxes and how we are linking it together, that we need to look at how we can raise serious money for the big investments?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218102903	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218102904	It is difficult to disagree with much of what is being said here, in general terms, because we have to look at all the possibilities when we have to deal with the green transition. I think we can see that this is going to be really, really difficult, because if it were that easy, we would have seen some solutions presented earlier. But in our world come the climate action plans, which include: should form the backbone of reaching the 70%, to be the focal point. And then I think we will have to have a very clear discussion, as we have also agreed, once a year here in the Danish Parliament about how and how that development is going, so that we are sure that things are going the right way.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218102953	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218102956	There is no doubt that we in the New Citizen are deeply critical of this. This is a finance bill that makes the Danes poorer. We are talking about the Social Democracy and the Left making a bill that makes the Danes poor. I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur does not share the concern both for business owners, but especially for those who have the least in society, as this Finance Act actually makes poorer. Does the rapporteur not share that concern?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218103025	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218103026	Yes, I do, and we have spent some time discussing that here today. I have also tried to emphasise some of the points in the speech I made earlier. I think it is a problem that this financial law is virtually exonerated of initiatives to make Denmark richer. I think it has come to the conclusion that the response from the government is that a green growth fund of 25 billion is being set up. kr. But I think you should take that with a grain of salt, because that is not what you are setting up; you give some loan facilities that are a good enough idea, and I think it costs about 80 million. kr. by 2020 to increase EKF's borrowing capacity and the Growth Fund's borrowing capacity. That's not 25 billion. kr. That is another figure, because that is what they have the opportunity, if I may say so, to contribute. And today they also have a large amount of billions available. So yes, I am in fact one hundred per cent in agreement with the concern expressed by the rapporteur of the new citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218103123	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218103125	I'm glad. That is why I am a little surprised that the Left is almost the driving force in raising taxes on cigarettes. Because we know that we're hitting the lowest income group, and we can also look at this finance law, that's what's boning out. So now that the Left shares the concern of New Citizens that this financial law affects those who have the least, the most percentage, why is it that taxes on cigarettes are being raised? Because that's exactly what's gonna hit them.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218103152	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218103154	That is true, and it is not in this way something that deserves to be a great breaking news. So, the Left said before the elections that we thought cigarette prices should be raised, and we did, because we have an ambition that fewer people should smoke in this society. That is precisely the only tax that we proposed to raise. Otherwise, we went to the polls on a tax freeze, both in relation to taxes and taxes. I think it makes good sense to raise the tax on cigarettes in order to send out a clear signal that fewer, mainly fewer, young people are going to smoke. I do not think that this is something we are going to achieve overnight. It's something that's gonna take time.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218103238	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218103240	Thank you. After all, the rapporteur of the Left is completely unconcerned about how the bill is actually to be paid. The psychiatry thing, we have to understand that you think it's positive. There will be more nurses and more doctors and also more educators. After all, the Left's draft budget is underfunded by 2.6 billion. kr. With the richest heirs in the back, the Left has thundered against the residence and gift tax and the fact that you have to pay tax on your phone if you get it paid by your employer and use it privately. That alone is 1.5 billion. kr. In the negative, and when the rapporteur of the Left is asked how it should be financed, so far we have four different questions about it in response to three proposals: family allowances, residence allowances and Danish education. That's 455 million. kr. Together. That is not an answer to how to finance the 2.6 billion. kr., one is missing.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218103334	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218103335	First of all, thank you for the question. I do not know whether the chairman of the Committee on Finance was present in this Chamber when I gave my speech and also subsequently answered some questions. Because that question has been answered earlier today, so that, as Mr. Jens Joel is simply not correct. I also said that we would raise the taxes on cigarettes, which would provide a financing of 475 million. kr., and I also said that there are 1.5 billion. kr. to collect from the reserve. So it's not a question of this being underfunded. The amendments we have are completely funded. But it must be because Mr. Jens Joel deliberately did not want to hear what has been said, and I am a little sorry about that, because I have seen such respect for the fact that Mr. Jens Joel usually hears what's being said.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218103423	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218103425	That respect is, in fact, mutual. That's why I don't understand. Now you mention the cigarettes, which are worth 450 million. kr., and that's right, but all the things are on the chart we've made, and it's still not something that sums up to what the Left would call a balance. That's why we're asking how you can afford these things. How can you afford the nurses, the educators, the teachers and the psychiatry when it does not sum up in the Left's proposal? A minus is still gone, even if you take into account what you have said about what you actually agree to, and what you do not want, then there is still a minus, and we wonder about that. That cannot be covered by turning down the reserve alone.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218103507	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218103508	Well, I don't recognize that number, like Mr. Kim. Jens Joel is a performer. There is, I think, quite a lot of money available on various reserves if you make it up. That is a nicely large amount of billions, and I have also said in this debate that we will be supporting the amendments tabled by the Danish People's Party on the consultants. There, I believe, the Danish People's Party is proposing a further 475 million. kr. I look forward to seeing whether the Social Democratic Party agrees with that. It is a much smaller figure than that on which the Social Democratic Party was elected, but we have to see that. So there are plenty of different funding elements that make our policy coherent. You can be quite comfortable with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218103553	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218103555	Thank you. It has been exciting to follow the debate, and not least the reference made by the rapporteur to the Left's draft budget. There you can read that the Left wants to maintain Lindholm, that they want to maintain the demand for cash aid, that they want to remove the 300 million. kr., which the Socialists and the government are proposing to go to more welfare benefits for foreigners etc., and that is all well and good enough. It can be said that, in this way, the policy of aliens roll back to where we were until the voters chose to put together the most reddest parliament in recent times. What is the question to the Left rapporteur is: is that enough for the Left? Because even if we roll things back to what it was on 5 June 2019, every year we still have a cost to non-western immigrants of more than 30 billion. kr. That is why it may be a little bit disconcerting to hear the rapporteur talking to the left over here about 100 million me here and 1 billion me there and things like that, when we see at the same time that 30 billion. kr. go to people where you may have to discuss whether they have anything to do in Denmark at all. So what considerations is the Left making about being able to secure some more black figures in the Finance Act by sending some of the people out of Denmark that no title has to be here?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218103714	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218103715	Thank you for those comments. So, I agree 100% that the whole debate on how and how to reduce the financial burden on people who have come here and do not contribute is a very important discussion which requires a much greater public discussion. It must be said that it is the Danish People's Party which, among other things, is involved. has sent out this discussion to the public because they asked for these figures to be published. I think that in itself has been very healthy. There are many things that can be done. Some of these things have, in fact, already been tried to do something about when we were in government. This is a trade, for example. on how and how to increase the employment rate for people with a non-western background who are at an incredibly low level. It can be said that it is almost impossible to explain that, in a situation of such a large workforce and such low unemployment, you cannot get a higher level of people with a non-Western background to get a job. So that's one element where you should do something more. Another element is, of course, the whole question of maintaining the policy pursued by the previous government with the support of the Danish People's Party. In other words, it is not because we do not want to recognise it here, and I believe that a Danish requirement could be introduced to a greater extent for those receiving cash benefits in order to make a further demand. That's what we said in the election campaign.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218103840	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218103841	I must say that is a little unambitious, because even under the previous government we had a huge move on public finances for non-western immigrants. It is not just a question of participation in the labour market; it is, after all, in relation to the judiciary, the police, the health services and everything else that these people here represent, above all else, a great burden on government finances. That is why it might not be too much to ask, given that Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen is here discussing 100 million, 50 million, 0.5 billion, etc. I would like to say to the left whether he could reveal how the Left is going to reduce the enormous cost, which today is more than 30 billion. kr. a year, we have for these people from another part of the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218103925	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218103928	I mean, you can do that one way or the other. In this context, I would like to stress the importance of the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. There we can see that there is a very large difference between municipalities. This also means that there is a good financial incentive for many municipalities to then make an extraordinary effort. There is, in fact, already there today, because moving people out of passive support and into the labour market is only common sense. I think a wide range of initiatives must be taken, but I would just like to say before Mr. Morten Messerschmidt is attacking me further, that we are in fact very much in agreement that we should go a different way than the way the government is now setting out. It is the one that is going to hurt Denmark, and it is the one that is going to make Denmark poorer, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218104013	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218104015	Thank you. Sir. Troels Lund Poulsen cannot really escape the fact that when you go so strongly against the proposals we have for tax changes, you do not have the same money to make the improvements on welfare and climate and the environment that the government has. And you don't really want to be about it, but that's the way it is. I really do think we miss the fact that the Left stands by that priority. And when you stand up here today and say that it is a terrible financial law and that it does not make Denmark any better, you have to say what it is you want to sort out to avoid the increases in taxes that you are so much opposed to. We think that is fine enough for heirs and for plastic to become more expensive, etc. It's the Left very much opposed to "just fine," but then you have to stand by that there are some other things you can't do. This applies, for example, to: the educators, where I understand from the Conservative People's Party that they are not so interested that we as a state go in and spend extra money deciding on minimum standards in the day institutions? For example, is it... Something in which the Left agrees with the Conservative People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218104122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218104123	Fortunately, there has been a good opportunity to answer this question, and it is also fine that we should take the discussion again. In other words, I have made our priorities very clear, and we will see it in the votes that are taking place. There you can see what we are putting to the vote and what the government is putting to the vote. The government has not put everything to the vote either, and that is so fine. However, I can say very clearly that there are a large number of elements that I have also emphasised here that we are critical of. Then we also allow ourselves to use, as I believe Mr. Jesper Petersen remembers was the case when the Social Democracy was in opposition, the part of the reserves available to implement our policy. There is nothing new about that either. And then, of course, we have the funding elements that I have mentioned. We've got one of them. higher cigarette prices, cancellation of family allowances, residence requirement, the whole discussion about Danish education. So there are quite a lot of different initiatives. And then we also have the amendment tabled by the Danish People's Party, which we support, namely about the consultants. It can be said that it is quite interesting that it seems that the Social Democrats do not support that proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218104242	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218104244	Well, I've been here to hear what Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen says, but I just don't think it's an answer, because the figures aren't correct, so the money doesn't fit in what the Left is coming forward with now with the amendments that are. And that is where we have to stand for the fact that this is simply not connected. One of the few things that Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen has pointed out here, which one wants to stand by, is the educational ceiling. And it all of a sudden blew up for me that I think the Left had said something about it in the election campaign, and it's actually the Left. In fact, it has been said that the ceiling on training would be abolished, that the Left was ready to remove the ceiling on training. It's sir. Tommy Ahlers, who was a minister at the time who says so on May 21st, I am here with the article from Danmarks Radio. Now you vote against it. What does that mean?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218104329	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218104330	But what I just think is gonna be a little awkward... Of course, Jesper Petersen's black belt is that it wasn't, sir. Tommy Ahlers said. That, sir. Tommy Ahlers said in the election campaign, and we actually had a long discussion about that during the first reading of the draft Finance Act, that we were prepared to try to see if we could abolish the training ceiling if we could find funding for it. We are then unable to do so because we have another priority. So that's it, sir. Jesper Petersen says he's not being honest. It's not an honest story about it, sir. Tommy Ahlers said. He said it was if we could finance it, and we are not able to. And that is the consequence of having the money fit.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218104409	Mrs. Katrine Robsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218104411	Thank you. And I am sorry if the rapporteur now thinks we are going to ask the same thing a little bit, but I simply also need clarification on the opinion on the training ceiling. During the election campaign, Mr. Tommy Ahlers, that the ceiling on education was completely against what the Left wants with the education system and that the Left was ready to abolish it. Is the Left now again in favour of the ceiling on education and will the Left vote against the abolition of the ceiling?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218104447	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218104450	In any case, I can only reassure the rapporteur that we should not at last regret the fact that critical questions are being asked. I think that is actually part of the political debate. Now, sir. Tommy Ahlers over here and basking in the other side of the hall, so he's almost completely innocent of what he said. That's what Mr. Tommy Ahlers said was wise, and I think it's not necessarily a good idea to read it all again. But we just have to say that we can see the reason for the fact that the ceiling on education does not necessarily have to be there in the future. So we're just not able to make a financing because the money has to fit into this financial bill discussion that we have. So, in order for the money to vote, we shall be voting against abolishing the education ceiling. Are we able to find the money in the future, if that is the case? This is something that we must discuss in a future budget debate. But it has a consequence that you cannot have all your wishes fulfilled. And that, in fact, was what Mr. Tommy Ahlers arrived in the quote he gave at the time during the election campaign. He said it very frankly and very openly.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218104552	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218104553	Well, thank you for your answer. I think that one of the most important investments we can make at all is in our future and our young people and the opportunities that they have. That is why I also need to know whether the Left has an ambition to reinstate the ceiling on education if that is possible in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218104615	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218104616	Now we're a little early in the government period or I think so, but I don't know. The Radicals probably know much more about how far we are in the government period, because basically it is the Radical Left that decides it. But with the Stamina shown by the Radicals, I believe that it will be a long time before the parliamentary elections come. With respect to that, I find it difficult to say how many accidents the government has to make, which must be corrected. And that is why we must also take the reservation that we have to look at the economy and the conditions that exist on the day we take over government power. And then we have to determine our policy on the basis of what it is like. But one can be confident that, of course, we will be going to the polls on a large number of things that we will deliver if the government changes. I do not think we are where elections are being held today, so I think I will wait to present it. And it is probably not me who will do it either; it will certainly be the President of the Left, and he is not here today for good reasons either. Well, he was earlier, but not now in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218104716	We can do another one. Sir. Jeppe Bruus, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218104720	Thank you. I also hope that elections will not be held today. I would like to agree with the rapporteur. Then I think we're all gonna panic a little bit. Thank you for the clear answer to this training ceiling. It's pretty clear talk, and I'd like to sign for that. Then we know that it is not the policy of the Left that the ceiling on education should be removed. Following that, sir. Jesper Petersen mentioned a little earlier, I would say that it is just a little harder to get a very clear answer to the context of the whole economic policy of the Left. Now we have been through this in the financial law debate, and we are now here on 18 December and still do not have a complete overview of it. Now I understand that the clear answer comes when we vote on amendments. Is there then an equally clear answer to whether there are other savings on education if the policies of the Left are to be linked to those priorities? Or are there no savings on education in the policy of the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218104817	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218104819	Now I didn't actually take it as a credit for what I said. To those who may sit and watch, I would say that I believe that, Mr President. Jeppe Bruus said he was deeply sarcastic. I have great respect for the use of that in politics. What we said about the education ceiling is that we are critical of it and can argue that it should not be there but that it should be financed. But there are some other things we want to finance before the abolition of the education ceiling. That's kind of the conclusion of this discussion. I do not think you can be in doubt if you have heard what has been answered. We think that it makes better sense to strengthen Danish business by rolling back some of the tax increases that this government inflicts on Danish business and which make Denmark poorer. But it is basically just a political disagreement. There we disagree on which way we should go, and that is why the electorate has composed the Folketing in the way it is now. But Jeppe Bruus can be quite confident that we have a responsible economic policy, regardless of the fact that our policy shows a different picture. I know that the Social Democratic Party would like to try to illustrate that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218104923	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218104924	Thank you. In fact, the training ceiling was not at all an attempt to be sarcastic; it was actually a receipt for a sincere, clear answer to it. I also think that this was a very honest answer, which is about the fact that this cannot be abolished because there is a different priority. That's nice, and then you know there's a difference in Danish politics. If I were to be a little sarcastic at last, it should be in relation to the fact that we do not have a clear picture of how the economic policy of the Left is linked. That is why my follow-up question was whether there are any savings in education, by the way, in the economic policy of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218105000	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218105001	I think that we have had a relatively good discussion on how we believe that the money can be used differently. I have stressed several times here today, and I would like to do so again, that we think it is wrong to spend 300 million. kr. more to give mainly unemployed immigrant families more, you might say, in cash aid. It's the wrong way to go. I am also surprised that the social democracy is going that way, because unfortunately it helps to ensure that those people do not have a link with the labour market. I have argued that we would like to raise the price of cigarettes as another example. And then we discussed the residence requirement, the Danish degree programme. Well, there are a lot of things that we do not want to support in the Finance Act that is here. So you can be completely comfortable and the money fits.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218105051	We can also make it to Mr. Knox. Jacob Mark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218105054	So I am not quite finished with that training ceiling, and that is because it is something that has been very close to our hearts. We were very opposed when the V government introduced the education ceiling, and I was actually very happy and pleasantly surprised when the Left announced in the middle of the election campaign that it was now against everything that had been done for education policy and that it had been realised with the students who had gone on the street that this was a bad educational policy initiative. When it came in the middle of the election campaign, and I remember the day it filled all the media, it was in the TV Newspaper, and it filled so much for the Left that this was something you wanted to get rid of, and the former Minister of Education was around telling us how bad a political idea it had been, and that now it had to be removed, and of course there was that reservation about the funding, Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen then understand if there are any voters, if there are any young people, if there are any parents around the whole country who wonder a little bit that now, when you get the chance to get rid of it, you vote against? Can the rapporteur understand that?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218105157	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218105158	No, actually, I can't. First of all, I don't remember that day so clearly. For me the election campaign was quite long, to my liking too long, but it was beyond my pedagogical reach to decide anything about it. I guess what I think was the honesty of it, as Mr. Tommy Ahlers said we'd like to find money if it was possible. Now it happens, it can be said, national disaster, that government is disappearing, so we do not have the right to serve, and that is exactly what the difference is. If we had been in government offices today, I would have thought immediately that the education ceiling had also been abolished. But then it was funded in a different way. That's all theory. Because we are not in government, unfortunately, we have to say that the voters would be different. That is where I say that when you want to give priority, you cannot get everything. Because if you want something other than the government, you have to say that not just one person can vote for everything the government wants. That is why we have to say that we still want to discuss the ceiling on education. We're just not in a position to finance it in this financial bill from us.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218105305	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218105306	[Sound emission]... goes out on 21 May, in the middle of the election campaign, shortly before election day, and says that this educational ceiling is simply against everything the party stands for educational policy. Would it not have been reasonable, then, to give priority to those funds in this Finance Act, where we others give priority to this? And if not, when would the rapporteur have thought that priority would be given to finding money to abolish the education ceiling?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218105331	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218105332	Well, this is gonna be a little exciting, understood in the sense that the Left hasn't known to me the power of government. I don't think we'll get it either today or tomorrow, we're working on it either. Now I can see that there is a majority in the Folketing that abolishes the education ceiling. Well, then, the good question is from Mr. Knox. Jacob Mark: What then happens on the day that the Left gets the government again? There I would like to say that I like the enthusiasm for when the Left returns to power. We share that, and I would like to say that we will then be able to relate to how we prioritise the education ceiling on the day we have government power. However, I think it is a little strange for me to stand now and take over the government power, with respect for the fact that we are shortly into the government's term of office.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218105420	Thank you very much to the honourable Member. Troels Lund Poulsen for today's efforts. Before we go further, I would remind you that if you are not born with an inner clock, you can choose to buy yourself a Rolexur or an ordinary watch, or you can pick up your phone, on which there is a digital clock, and turn it on when you speak. Or, when you stand up here it's the rapporteurs' privilege to look at the red disc on which it stands, and when it flashes, time has passed. Now we have stolen the time from one and a half or two colleagues by constantly pushing the speaking time 10, 20 and up to 35 seconds, sir. Troels Lund Poulsen. That is not acceptable, because it is quite unreasonable. It is not illegal to do time theft, but it is rather impractical, especially for the last one. I would like to welcome Mr. René Christensen from the Danish People's Party, who is the next rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218105511	Thank you for that, President. Yes, here we are with the proposal for the Financial Act for 2020. You know, a finance bill is a lot more than that. It is Denmark's budget, but it is also in the Finance Act that you can make policy. It is also in the Finance Act that the direction for Denmark will be set for the next year. I can say that the Danish People's Party has never made more policy on the elderly and more foreign policy than when we have made financial law, no doubt about it, and let us start there. If you look at the 2020 Finance Act, how much does the area of older people fill? It barely fills anything. It's like the elderly don't exist. But it is actually the case that there are 1,136,000 people in Denmark over 65 years of age. In fact, it is also the case that in the group of pensioners and elderly people there are in fact around 265 000 who are over 80 years of age. This is a marked increase in the population. When we look at it over a short period of years, there is actually an increase of 30%. as a whole, and when you look at the group of citizens who are over 80 years old and we welcome that in the Danish People's Party there is actually an increase of 16 per cent. over the years. What does it mean when we talk about Finance Act? Yes, that means, of course, that there are more elderly people who are also caring for care, that there are more elderly people who need public help. This also means that more funds are needed. Every time and every time the Danish People's Party has made finance laws, we have brought the elderly with us. Last time we had the dignity billion. We have had a dignified elderly life and so on. etc. When you look at the Finance Act for next year, you will see that 125 million has been set. kr. off. It's almost nothing. Nevertheless, you can see if we just take another area, such as. In the case of foreign nationals, more than 0.5 billion has been set aside. kr. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. So there's 125 million. kr. for the elderly and over 0.5 billion. kr. to the territory of foreigners. This surprises us, because we had an election campaign, and I was so happy on that day as the financial rapporteur, and I remember that, because I represent the Danish People's Party, I can remember that my chairman, Kristian Thulesen Dahl, and Pia Olsen Dyhr were on TV and handed hands to each other that now there should be 1 billion. kr. for the elderly, because when there are more customers in the store, more money is needed. So this isn't about gold taps at the care centers. This is actually about the need for money so that we can maintain the level of service that we know. Of course, we also need to do a little better, but when there are more elderly people, it also requires more money. But that's not the only area. The Finance Act is, of course, about priorities. What is the priority in a financial law, and what is it that we do not want to give priority to? Some of it's about money, some of it's just about politics. Let me take an area such as animal welfare, it is not much about money. But when you look at the Finance Act passed this evening, it is actually the case that the government and the Socialist majority have chosen to halve half! Then you can say that it is probably because you have to spend money elsewhere; you can only spend the money once. But what is it that has been cut down on? Seven and a half million people have been cut. kr. Away • 7.5 million. kr., which means so much to animal welfare in Denmark. It means so much to us to have people out in the field. And then I would like to say before anyone starts to be funny: it is without the subsidy that was in the previous Finance Act to buy elephants for. This is real money that has gone into the fact that we have been able to do outreach work in relation to our animal welfare organisations. It is not long since we could read in the press that dogs and other animals around Denmark have been found who are miserable. That, then, is the work that has now been chosen to halve the money for by 2020. It's not about money. It is a matter of purely re-prioritisation. Priority has not been given to animal welfare. Of course, it is also the case that when you look at this Finance Act... Dansk Folkeparti was over to get a cup of coffee, and thanks for that cup of coffee; we are happy to get that, but we haven't really had much influence on what the Finance Bill looks like today. When we look at the green transition, of which the Danish People's Party is also a part, there is a basis here for us to work further, also in relation to an economic bottom that is absolutely not fully funded. That is to say, but there is at least some framework for moving forward with our objective of reducing emissions of fossil fuels, i.e. CO2 Another thing that we are really happy about in the Danish People's Party. It is not so often that we look down on the Radicals and smile and say thank you for it, but in this case I will do that in relation to the primary school area. It was very clear that it was a requirement when you went in that something was going to happen in the area of primary school, and we are glad that you have got it. By 2020 it will be 275 million. kr. Fully phased, it's 800 million. kr. There are also more children, so you can discuss whether it is a very, very big boost or whether it is to ensure primary school. We hope that this will help to give a boost. It is one of the greatest resources we have as a society. We are not rich in large natural resources, we do not have much oil, we have a little bit. The greatest resource we have is our citizens, and that is why we are, of course, pleased that the primary school has a boost. So thank you for that. When we then go deeper into the Finance Act and look at the Finance Act because it's the economy we're talking about here... what we're really for a society here in Denmark, we can see that we're a tax-financed society. What does that mean? That means we have to create some values, and then we pay taxes on it. We pay taxes on what we produce. We pay taxes on the wages we earn. But who is the creator of values? We do that together. Public authorities must ensure that there are some roads on which to drive. The public sector must ensure that we have some training so that companies can obtain the employees they need and then we can tax it. That is why business policy is the most important thing for the welfare society we know. We can nevertheless see in the Finance Act that it is not a Finance Act that makes Denmark richer. After all, we do not get any more money for welfare, even though we now have a majority in the Folketing, which says that it is a welfare majority. You spend more money, but you don't get any more money, on the contrary. There is a negative supply of labour when we look at the Finance Act. We can also see that a triple inheritance tax is being made for family-owned companies. It is a very, very unfortunate discussion that has come up. There has been a discussion that there are some very, very large family-owned companies, and those are being pissed off by the Socialists, and they must not accumulate so much money. What you just forget is that the family-owned companies also include the ordinary carpenter master, the ordinary blacksmith, agriculture, etc. etc. In fact, when you look at the number of transfers of family-owned companies, it is at a level of around 400 per year. And it is not Danfoss and Lego who are handed over every year. It is quite common companies that now receive a triple inheritance tax. What does that mean? This means that once the company has been transferred, it has become poorer. The company cannot make the investments it intended to make. We can also see it on the packaging tax. Another thing we can see is that border controls disappear. There will simply be an amendment tonight to remove border controls. At least you take away the money for it. Although we have a Prime Minister who has said that we must have border controls in Denmark, we must actively vote this evening for the 95 million. kr. spent on border controls is being tampered with by the Finance Act. We are very puzzled in the Danish People's Party. We are actually astonished by the 2020 financial law agreement concluded between the Socialist Government and the Socialist Support Parties. The Finance Act for 2020 does not make Denmark richer, but creates more inequality and imposes new burdens on the Danes. The heaviest burdens will come as a result of the numerous concessions made to foreigners by the Social Democrats and the Socialist parties. In the previous parliamentary term, social democracy has given strong guarantees to the Danish people that the party has moved towards a strict immigration policy on crucial points, but it was of course also before the elections. Therefore, some of us had some expectations that the Social Democracy would at least maintain the strict immigration policy that the bourgeois government, together with the Danish People's Party, had adopted before the parliamentary elections in 2019. But what do we have today? Unfortunately, we have something quite different. The financial law agreement states that the social democracy, the government, has merely provided empty guarantees and has pretended to stand for a strict immigration policy. The 2020 Finance Act clearly shrinks from the tight immigration policy on crucial points. Particularly painful for Denmark and the Danish people is the beginning of a fight with the repatriation policy under the Finance Act. When fewer people than were in the cards are returned, and when you do not continue with the policy that the Danish People's Party stands for, there is no doubt that the result is that it will increase costs. In addition, it has also been decided that quota refugees will be re-received, regardless of the fact that we are still facing major integration problems. Some 0.5 billion has been set aside. kr. to relax the policy on foreigners by 2020, which, unfortunately, is rapidly increasing in the future. This ignores the latest research, which states that there is a clear link between the level of benefits and the destination of an asylum seeker. There is no doubt that when those people have paid a human smuggler and look at where they can go, they naturally choose to go where the benefits are highest. And where is it? It's in Denmark. So, dear Social Democrats, why don't you take care of Denmark now that you have the power to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218110523	Thank you. The first question is Mr. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218110531	Thank you for your speech and for your speech in the debate, but I think it was a rather depressing speech, i.e. such a depressing one, in view of what will actually happen to our society when you implement this budget law with the improvements that are made to common welfare benefits, also for the elderly. In relation to the climate and the environment, there is also a series of good initiatives, and I would have liked them to be able to see the benefits of the Danish People's Party too. What I am thinking in particular is, after all, the discussion we have had for a long time on the priorities for common welfare. And the Danish People's Party came up with something in opposition to the government that was before, even if it was supported, in view of how one should prioritise it, that there should actually be an increase in public spending when there were more elderly and more children, etc. After all, it was difficult to get through this with a government that started in favour of zero growth at the time. But I would really like to hear now that there will be a Finance Act with a significant increase of 1.3 per cent. is the growth in public consumption, that is to say somewhat higher than what was before, much higher is the Danish People's Party really more in agreement with the current government's welfare policy or with the previous government's welfare policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218110640	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218110644	We are in agreement, and I actually praised the area of primary education, and I actually praised the fact that money has been set aside for the green area. It is not the case that a budget law is always just black and white, i.e. it is either bad or it is good. There are always thistles, and there are also always flowers in a bill of finance. But I have to say that when you look at what you decide now, the costs are not very high in relation to the reductions you make in the area of foreigners, but they are going to be very high in the future. We are already under pressure of expenditure of over 30 billion. kr. 30 billion a year; kr. a year. That expenditure will be increased, and when you increase it, it may be that it is not by 2020 that you have to finance it, but in 2021, 2022, 2023, 2024. We know that; that is also true when you open the door for quota refugees to be taken. One quota fugitive is not just one quota fugitive; there are fast-track family reunions and other things, and then we know the price. So this financial law is really very good, given that you have also made a sensible agreement with the municipalities, you have also made a sensible agreement with the regions, but in the long run I have to say that from the point of view of the Danish People's Party, this Finance Act is a disaster for the Danish economy, because you increase expenditure without financing it, and you don't know the level you open up to. But history tells us that when you increase performance levels, the influx increases significantly.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218110750	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218110754	Well, I would like to acknowledge that, after all, there are also some bright points in the Danish People's Party's arguments. But Mr. In fact, René Christensen did not answer my question: is it really more in agreement with this government's priorities for common welfare, i.e. the quality of children, health, the elderly, psychiatry than with what succeeded and what policy was under the previous government? That was my question, and Mr. René Christensen didn't actually go on. So I'd really like that now that he gets the chance again.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218110828	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218110832	I would really like to answer that. We therefore strongly disagree with the priorities that have been set. That you choose to spend 125 million. kr. in the area of the elderly and much more than 0.5 billion in the area of the elderly. kr. in the field of foreigners, which will be steadily increasing, we deeply disagree with the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Security. Well, compared to this increase in public spending, it depends on what you spend the money on. This is 0.5 billion. kr. in 2020, which will rise to well over 1 billion. kr. Very quickly, is also public consumption, and the Danish People's Party does not want that. So, because the Danish People's Party is not about spending the citizens' money, it is actually about spending the citizens' money properly. And I just have to say that when I look down over this finance bill, the 2019 Finance Act was far, far better than the 2020 Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218110906	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218110909	I would like to thank the rapporteur for the commendation for raising the primary school so that our schoolchildren can have more teachers and teachers with better time. It is absolutely true that this has been a very, very strong radical priority, so I am pleased about that, and I trust that the rapporteur's party will then also vote in favour of it. Then the rapporteur also praised some of the green elements of the Finance Act. Of course, I'm really glad to hear that. In other words, the rapporteur's party has also made such a green transformation, and I think that is excellent, and the majority behind the Climate Act are really progressive. That is why I would also like to ask, quite frankly, whether we can also count on the rapporteur's party now, when it was unfortunately not included in the draft budget, but maybe it could be included in the climate action plan, which will help to introduce an air tax that can be used for the green conversion of the aviation industry and for the development of forests, so that we can reduce CO2 emissions.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218111009	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218111012	But that is what we need to do now; that is, after all, to find the funding and also to find the means. Some of the instruments are known. We have proposed how we would like to finance it in relation to an oil fund, in other words, where we say we want to continue drilling for oil in Denmark, and the money we then get in we need to use for the green conversion. That is our funding proposal. After all, we do not believe that airport charges in isolation are the solution to financing, but that is what we need to negotiate. It is not the case that the Danish People's Party goes to the negotiating table without having funding proposals on how to achieve the green transition, because there is no doubt that it will be difficult with instruments, but it will also be expensive in terms of funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218111050	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218111053	Of course. It can't be isolated. There are many things that need to be done, and that could then be one of the elements. Another element is, of course, agricultural aid, where we can make the funds greener to a large extent. Will the rapporteur's party help to ensure that we use our opportunities to make as much of the agricultural aid green as possible and thus use it for set-aside and similar measures?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218111113	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218111117	In fact, we have seen that agriculture has played a very positive role in relation to the green transition. And some of these things are also part of what agriculture itself says, i.e. that you are one of them. I need to look at low-level soils and other things. We're also looking at what we can use those low-level soils for, i.e. if we can get more synergies. Because if you pick them out, of course, it can turn into nature. It could also be that instead of taking out fertile farmland, for example, we could use the low-level soils for solar installations and other things; we see that solar energy is starting to fill very much. So yes, we are very ready for agriculture to be part of the solution, and it is agriculture itself. It is because we are an agricultural country, and most of our land is cultivated today.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218111152	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218111155	Thank you. I would just like to correct a misunderstanding in which the rapporteur is travelling, namely that this government does not give priority to the elderly, or that this government and the support parties do not give priority to the elderly. For where is the care of the elderly financed? It is mainly financed in the municipalities, and the former government, which was supported by DF, is, after all, underfunded the care of the elderly to a very great extent. In fact, 17 times more money is given to the municipal welfare of this government than before. What do you do in the municipalities if you don't have enough money to care for the elderly? Then you cut the manning, the care, the food and all the frames to ensure a good life for the elderly. It was the government that DF supported. So, in dollars and cents, we will fully meet the billion promised by the SF President before the elections. We do this over the four years when the SF President and the DF President handed over the idea that an extra billion should be given.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218111307	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218111310	Then I will have to correct the rapporteur. If you go in and look at what it was for an area that had the highest growth in the last 4 years, it was the older area. Why was that? That's because when we made the dignity billion, we put it on top of the budgets for 2016. That is, there was no cut a penny in the area of the elderly. A thousand million was added. kr. a year. It was not something that was introduced over the period when 125 million were started. kr., and then it could get a little more next year. No, that's where we got 1 billion. kr., namely 1,000 million. kr., once a year. They came as fresh money, and they had to be put upstairs. You weren't allowed to make savings out there. Therefore, the area as a single area was that which had the absolute greatest growth, but also most customers. That was the senior area in the last period. It has to be said that what is happening now is that, when we get the accounts for the municipalities for 2020, I will be convinced that by 2021 there will be downgrades in the area of the elderly, because that is what we can now do.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218111404	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218111408	No matter how creative you count, it doesn't help to underfinance it may sound a little boring to the municipal economy, so there's no room for basic things, and when it comes to the Finance Act, you sprinkle a little sugar over it, and then it looks really fine. The government and the policy supported by DF underfunded the care of the elderly and other municipal areas to a great extent. What I would like to use my last question is to ask DF: You are a great advocate of most corporate heirs having to pay much less in estate and gift fees than ordinary people. How can that be? Why would Mr. Knox have to? And Mrs Jensen pays much more in inheritance tax than some of the richest corporate heirs in this country? That doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218111448	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218111451	It's so nice when you can tell the difference between us. There you can really hear the Socialist speaking. A rich business owner may be the one-man owner who has to transfer his business to his son. Or it may be the two-man company, where the ordinary Dane is employed in the company, which then has to be transferred. They can't do that because they're now being taxed on fire. For they are evil; for they are entrepreneurs; they shall not be there. But listen, the two employees get their salary from this manager, and then they pay taxes, and then we hand it out to welfare. And here's the thing: if there was no private business, we wouldn't have any welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218111527	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218111531	I think that Mr. René Christensen doesn't talk about it. Under the former left-wing government, we saw cuts and deterioration in the public sector across the board. We saw that growth in public consumption could not even keep pace with demographic trends. In relation to the elderly area, I am here looking at a report from the FOA from the beginning of this year, which shows that the service costs per year. elderly also fell from 2018 to 2019. René Christensen That's right). The fact is that this is because a policy of reduction and deterioration has been pursued. Then it's just that I don't understand why the Danish People's Party is so busy taking all sorts of funding proposals out of this draft Finance Act and weakening a Finance Act, when there is now a Finance Act that has massive prints from the Enhedslisten, and which therefore on welfare is the best Finance Act for really, very many years • the best Finance Act for welfare for perhaps 10 years. The Finance Act is good for welfare, and it is a financial law that will also strengthen the elderly area in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218111637	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218111641	It is, of course, because it is funding that makes Denmark poorer in the long term. It is true that, in isolation by 2020, these foreigners' concessions may not mean so much financially, but I dare to promise that they will. We've seen it. There's evidence of that. Long reports have been made that when you increase performance levels, you also increase inflow. And increasing the influx also increases public spending. I know that Enhedslisten thinks it is good that public expenditure is increased, but they are being increased in the wrong way. Today we spend over 30 billion. kr. a year on non-Western immigration. Why on earth do we need more in the future? It does not go to welfare, as I believe the Danes think well. When the Danes think of welfare, they think of primary school, they think of care for the elderly, and they think of day care. I do not think they are thinking of non-Western immigration, but that is where this financial law will increase expenditure significantly in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218111728	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218111732	That's 30 billion. kr. is quite misleading, by the way. This can be seen from some of the questions I have asked in the Committee on Finance. We can discuss that, I am very happy to do so, but right now and here I would just like to ask how it might be that the Danish People's Party wants to remove funding proposals which, of course, strengthen welfare. I do not think I have received a proper answer, because I still need an answer as to whether it is the psychiatrist who should not have money or whether it is the fight against social dumping that should not have money. I could hear the rapporteur's enthusiasm. Perhaps it is not there that needs to be cut, but is it in the area of day-care, or is it the green transition that needs to be saved? What are some things that need to be tampered with by this draft Finance Act in relation to all the funding elements that the Danish People's Party wants?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218111810	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218111813	The rapporteur will then have to look at what amendments we have tabled, both those we have put to the vote, where we have rolled something back, and the proposals where we roll something forward and the things we have with ourselves. It is fully funded by the Finance Act. So there are no challenges compared to what we're rolling back. Of course, there's something we don't. We are not going to get that cost pressure on, among other things. non-Western immigration. We spend that money on something else. These are fully funded amendments that we have put forward. We have not put forward a financial bill, but amendments on which we are going to vote this evening.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218111838	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218111842	Thank you and thank you for a good rapporteur's speech. If there is a new majority, if there is a new election and there is a new majority and we get pressure on the Left, the Conservative and Liberal Alliance, which were previously in government together, to get these aliens tightens that are so necessary for Denmark, will it also be willing to spend some of the money on lowering taxes and taxes for the benefit of the Danes out there?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218111907	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218111911	Yeah, we will. We have done so in the past, and indeed it is one of the amendments on which we have tabled here today in connection with the Finance Act and on which we are going to vote. We do not want the Danes to pay as much as possible in tax. We want the Danes to pay the tax that is necessary for us to have a welfare society. Then our two parties may not quite agree on what a welfare society is, but we actually want a high level of health service, we want a high level of care for the elderly, and we also want it in primary and day care. That is, of course, the priority. It should certainly not be as expensive as possible to be a Dane, it should be as cheap as possible, but we are also watching over the welfare society.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218111943	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218111947	I think we may actually share a view on what a good welfare society is. We may not share an opinion on how expensive it should be to finance it. From the point of view of New Citizens we think that there can be really, very many places in the Danish state and in municipalities and regions where you can actually save money on the official work and external consultants and everything else that is superfluous, and if you save that money they can easily return to the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218112008	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218112011	Yeah, and that's one of them. one of our proposals that we should save 425 million. kr. to external consultants. Of course, we have taken that too from the government, which has been kind enough to figure it out for us. So it's not just something we picked off the shelf. These are the government's own figures that we have used for the amendment, and the proposal makes it possible, among other things, for us to spend the money better somewhere else.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218112026	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218112032	It's a little in the wake of Mr. Rune Lund's question from earlier, because it is, I think, with great wonder, when you look at the fact that the Danish People's Party is today saying that the Finance Act we had last year was much, much better than the one we have this year. What exactly did the Danish People's Party use its influence on for 4 years as the largest bourgeois party? After all, it was finance laws with a growth rate of 0.2, 0.7, 0.7 and 0.8 per cent. What was so much, much better about it? After all, it was savings on our health services, on our educations, it was a deterioration in the service to our elderly. I simply do not understand how, with the best financial law for decades, this can be heard by the Danish People's Party. Another thing that I find difficult to understand is that the Danish People's Party has always considered that if tax relief were to be granted, it should be at the bottom, and that the Danish People's Party's rapporteur is now standing here defending that business owners should have a lower inheritance tax than ordinary people, and have voted for it, and that it is, as it were, what they want to fight for. I simply do not understand it, but it may be that the rapporteur can help me a little.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218112134	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218112138	I'd love to. It is actually the case that if you transfer a company, if you withdraw money to yourself, in other words privately, then of course you have to be taxed full of it. We fully agree with that, and so is the regulatory framework. What is being done here is to triple the inheritance tax in relation to the value of the company, that is to say when someone transfers the company, and that is to withdraw money in relation to the fact that that company can expand and create more jobs and thus create a greater job supply and thus make Denmark richer. That's what you pick out when you come up with proposals like that. It may be that you want something like that, that some people are rich, that some people make money, but it is not prohibited to make money. It is not prohibited to create anything in Denmark either. We therefore welcome the fact that there is a company that creates jobs. We welcome the fall in unemployment. We are delighted when more Danes get into employment. We just have to say that the proposals contained in the financial bill here do not support this and that, in the long run, it also undermines the welfare society. This is a problem, and the Social Democrats must be able to see it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218112229	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218112233	Now it is perhaps a very broad question and to say that I do not understand, of course, falls back on the questioner here too. Then you have to try to be a little more specific. What I did not quite understand was how the Danish People's Party today stands here and praises the four financial laws that we have had, with massive savings in our welfare society, and that, when you prioritise tax cuts, you give them to business owners instead of giving them at the bottom. I think it is very, very thought-provoking that it is the profile that is shown, and which stands in stark contrast to what the Danish People's Party has actually said, namely that you must prioritise them at the bottom and that you want to invest in welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218112308	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218112311	It is actually not very difficult, because again it becomes very socialist. It's just about spending the money, and you can look at public spending. Why were there among other things? any less expenses? It was because we had a strict foreign policy. We had less spending on foreign policy, and thus there was less public spending. We enjoyed this in the Danish People's Party. We welcome the fact that we spend less on non-Western immigration. There I understand that the Social Democrats and the Socialist parties do not care what you spend money on, just the state spends money, as long as there is a high consumption of money. I would like to say on behalf of the Danish People's Party that we are giving priority to this. In fact, we believe that it is our duty as politicians to prioritise what the money is spent on. We would rather use them on care for the elderly than we would use them on non-Western immigration. There is no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218112350	Then it's mr. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218112402	Thank you. Recently, the word "climatosse" was voted the word of the year, and since it was the Danish People's Party that invented it, one could congratulate us on that distinction or award, but first of all I would like to sign that the Danish People's Party is included in the Climate Act, which commits us to a CO2 in 2030. In this context, I would like to ask, because we are always happy to welcome more climate freaks, whether it is now included in the agreement on the Climate Act, so also means that the Danish People's Party can vouch for the green measures contained in the Finance Act, the many measures such as green taxes, the removal of vulnerable agricultural land and afforestation. Can the Danish People's Party vouch for the green initiatives, or is it a bit too climated?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218112450	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218112454	The Danish People's Party is crazy about climate. We are not climate freaks, and I think that the Finance Act is, in fact, a very good example. For example: You raise the tax on one-time service tremendously. This has just been done in relation to weight, and it actually means increasing the tax on something that does not bother the climate at all. It can be something made of bamboo, it can be something made of compressed cardboard that is actually organic and that you can use out there. This is now increasing on the basis of weight. What's the cheapest then? It's gonna be plastic. In a few minutes I think it's in 2021 it'll actually be forbidden to use plastic one-time service. In other words, we in Denmark have a tax on the environmentally sound one-time service. It is climate messies when you charge something that is good for the climate. That is why we are very pleased that we have become part of the agreement so that we can be able to become the voice of reason, and I think, in a sense, that we will have to find each other when we get these negotiations under way.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218112545	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218112548	It's nice if the Danish People's Party is climate-mad, then we can get very far if there is a broad cooperation on it. But does this mean that the other measures that the rapporteur did not mention are something that the Danish People's Party can firmly and firmly support, and that is exactly the right way to go for Denmark in the green agenda, so that we really move and make this the greenest finance law for a long time?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218112608	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218112612	There is no doubt, just to take one example: time is also limited to afforestation and that the removal of state forests into untouched forests, which provide more biodiversity, is very good proposals. Then we just have to do it the right way. For example, it requires a forest for untouched forests to provide more biodiversity, perhaps some preparatory work before, so you are sure that you will get the right forest, where you are sure that light will come down so that you do not just get a black area where there will be no biodiversity. So again: yes, we think that many of these proposals are sensible, but they are all such proposals that require some professionalism and require some work in order to achieve the results that we would like to achieve together. But we very much look forward to becoming a part of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218112645	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218112651	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. I really believe that our challenge is that the fact that we have been voting in favour of financial laws for years, which were actually tighter in terms of public spending, is becoming very little concrete. And then it is said that the reason why you have done so is indeterminate: if you allow public consumption to grow and you, for example, let it grow. has proper care for the elderly or more psychiatry or more educators, so it should be like subversive to growth. I really think it is a little new if the Danish People's Party takes the view that the public sector, if you may say so, is a clumsy thing. I don't think that's what you give the impression of. In the Social Democratic Party we have the impression that the two things are each other's prerequisites, i.e. that strong business needs a good public sector, education and so on. etc. So I actually think that when mr. René Christensen defends the previous financial laws, which involved cuts, with the need to create a strong socio-economic environment, so it breaks slightly with the normal perception of the Danish People's Party and what is said to the public. So can the rapporteur not put a few words on it?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218112802	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218112806	I fully agree that the public sector is a prerequisite for everything. After all, this is the basis for the welfare society and the whole social structure that we have in Denmark. I fully agree with that. But what I just don't agree with is that you can cook a bill down to how much money we spend. It cannot be the two lines under a Finance Act, i.e. how much money is being spent. What may be two lines below is what political priorities have been set. And there you can see, for example on animal welfare, that it has been chosen to halve it is a political priority. It has been decided to set aside 125 million. kr. In the case of the elderly, the cost of non-Western immigration is increased by 0.5 billion. kr. These are the political priorities where we disagree. So it's not just about spending the money, it's about spending it on the right thing. And that discussion must always be in a politically led organization, and indeed here in the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218112857	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218112900	That goes without saying. But that is also why it is weird to be so sceptical about something where we give more money than we have for many years, for example to the municipalities, which are responsible for the care of the elderly out there, in other words where we invest massively in our common welfare. And the last many years, when the Danish People's Party negotiated finance law, we went to the financial law negotiations with a primary requirement that public growth should cover, that there actually will be more elderly people, that there will actually be more children, that there will be more pressure on welfare costs. It is now suddenly a major problem that, for the first time in years, we are actually making a financial law that takes account of this and even expands in some areas. This seems to me to be contrary to the efforts of the Danish People's Party today.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218112941	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218112945	In other words, it must be because the rapporteur has not heard my rapporteur's speech and my answers to some previous questions. I actually said that there are thistles and flowers in such a financial law, and I actually mentioned the agreement with the municipalities and the regions and said that these were actually quite excellent agreements that were made there. So I would not say that I just had a black speech from the rapporteur. In fact, I also mentioned the primary school area, and I mentioned the green area as a good thing. But where we disagree, of course, is when we increase the pressure of expenditure so much in relation to non-western immigration. Then we just think that we are pulling money out of it, as we are, I understand that the Socialist side is just about spending the money and that it doesn't matter what you spend it on. But there we just have a deep disagreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218113022	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218113026	On the socialist side, we would certainly like to spend more money on welfare and climate, and more than what the Danish People's Party, together with the former Blue Government, did, is true, but it does not matter what you spend the money on. One of the things that we choose to spend the money on, and I think that is actually what gets the biggest boost in the whole budget law, is minimum standards. This has been important for the SF, and we have prioritised and fought for it, and we are pleased that we have achieved our goals together with the other parties. I am a little interested in where the Danish People's Party is in that question, and I also asked about it at first reading, because the Danish People's Party was in the middle of the election campaign saying that now you could see yourself in minimum standards, and then the rapporteur replied at first reading that you should see what kind of model it was before you could see yourself in it. Now the rapporteur knows both the amount, the phasing-in period, and what the principle of the model should be, so can the rapporteur tell us whether the Danish People's Party will support the law that comes about on minimum standards in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218113131	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218113133	I do not know that law at all, I know only the amount, and I can say that it has nothing to do with minimum standards! It's about the fact that if you don't take it all with you, it's now every hundred and eighty kid who gets one more educator. Parental payments increase by DKK 3,700. for a crèche place and 2,400 DKK. for a kindergarten spot. This means that the Danes are becoming poorer. If you want to compensate them, the standards will be even worse. I also believe that the KL will come and say: What about all the free zones? Why don't we get paid for it? This means that when a child has a free space in a municipality, the municipality's cost increases by DKK 3,700. per child. There I think the municipalities must come and say: we want to be dutted for it. It also picks up 100 million. kr. out of it? I just ask: what legislation is coming? I only know the amount of money. Can the rapporteur explain here today what legislation is coming? Are the municipalities gonna get fucked up? Is it gonna be more expensive for the parents? I know I'm not allowed to ask questions from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218113223	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218113227	The municipalities will, of course, be fucked up. That is why so much money has been set aside, because when you make a law, the municipalities must also have money to phase in minimum standards. Let's start with 500 million. kr. next year, and then the amount rises to 1.6 billion. kr. If the rapporteur does not think that the amount we have been set off, which is a very, very high amount, in relation to what has been set off in the past in the field of children, is sufficient, then what is it necessary for the Danish People's Party to support minimum standards, because it was said in the election campaign that the Danish People's Party wanted minimum standards, but what are these minimum standards? When is the rapporteur satisfied? What kind of model should be on the table? What does it take for the Danish People's Party to vote for that law on minimum standards?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218113303	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218113307	I can say that we have not tabled any amendments to take this proposal out of the draft budget, so we are voting in favour of the amount and therefore also in favour of what should I say about the idea that something should be done in the area of day-care institutions. There we are in complete agreement with the SF. We have a challenge and we are pleased that we are now doing so, but I would say that as long as we do not know the legislation, I cannot say here from the speaking chair of the Folketing that we will vote in favour. But, of course, we are in favour of something happening in the area of day-care. This is an area in which we, as a society, have some obligations, and it is also a very good step towards doing more in the area of primary school, that more people are ready for school when they leave our day-care area. So we'd like to. But I hope that this is an invitation for us to be involved in implementing it, and that we will therefore also come into the room when it comes to negotiating it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218113344	Sir. Thomas Jensen, Silkeborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218113346	Thank you, President-in-Office of the Council. I think it was Richard Nixon who was the first to do that, so the first to talk nicely to the low-paid and the people who are having a hard time in society, while enriching those who already have enough. I was reminded of it when I heard the answer to Mr. Jeppe Bruus a moment ago, where I was able to hear that the Danish People's Party's rapporteur was pleased that there have been such low growth rates in public consumption during Lars Løkke Rasmussen's changing governments over the last four years. At the same time, the Danish People's Party has jumped on the lobbying efforts that many people in this room have been subjected to, from toy manufacturers around Billund, conservative charlatans from North Zealand • people who have really many billions of dollars in the account and who have come in to us and have wanted us to give them a little more in tax cuts. It is the Danish People's Party so jumped on, while ordinary people have been subjected to cuts in public welfare. So the question here is: is there really nothing in this Finance Act that is extending the welfare that the Danish People's Party can see will be a very good thing and which they would also like to vote for when we vote on the draft Finance Act later?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218113504	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218113507	I would like to thank you for the question, and I would also like to thank you for the honesty, because this really tells us what it is about: operators, those who create growth in Denmark, those who create jobs for ordinary workers, are bad people. When I was an auto mechanic, I also had a master with whom I was employed. He was self-employed and he had this company, and it was his. He had to hand that over to his son at some point. He wasn't a bad person. I was super glad he was there. I didn't have a company of my own. I was happy to have a job. Now you stand in this Chamber and say that they are such evil people and that they have billions of dollars on the bank book. I can promise you he didn't have billions of dollars on the bank book. He was an ordinary person who worked 70-80 hours a week to run his business, and I was super happy to have a good workplace. I think that is how many Danes feel. Very many, sir. and Mrs Jensener out there is super happy that they have a job, they are really happy with their manager, they are happy to go to work, and I hope they pay their taxes with pleasure so that we can manage the money in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218113601	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218113605	Nobody here talks about bad people. If we look back on what the housing and gift tax has been historic, there have been quite high growth rates in the Danish economy, while at the same time having had this housing and gift tax. Right now, the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party comes and claims that, in order to ensure welfare and to ensure it all, we must keep it down to a low level. No, you don't have to. What you are doing when the Danish People's Party wants to maintain a low tax rate for the richest in Denmark is a redistribution from those who do not have much to those who already have much. Isn't it a huge bluff that the Danish People's Party is once again committing?Talking nicely about those who aren't feeling so well, but at the same time giving great gifts to those who have enough in advance?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218113645	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218113649	This means that the Social Democratic Party will claim that all owners of a family-owned company are some of the richest in Denmark. I will ask that question so that the questioner can also have the opportunity to answer. Because that is simply not right. It is not true that all businesses, small one-man businesses and others are some of Denmark's richest. And that is what the rapporteur is saying. So I would like to say that if you look at this Finance Act, it hangs the heavy end down, because who is going to pay the most here? These are the ones with the lowest wages, and they are, among other things. Because you raise cigarette prices. There you have to say: socially it turns the heavy end down. It is people with the lowest wages who smoke the most, and that is really a pity, and we hope that they will stop smoking. But it's gonna be more expensive for them. When we can see that daycare prices are rising by DKK 3,700, who is it who has his children in kindergarten? These are the young families. They're not the richest either. They're going to pay 3,700 kroner. more a year to have their child in a daycare institution because of minimum standards. This isn't a finance bill where you've looked at the people at the bottom. This is a financial law which has simply been prioritised and said what it is you want to say. There is something you want to do, and then there is something you do not want, and what you have spent the most effort on is to facilitate foreign policy, and this has been done fully financed by over 0.5 billion. kr. in 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218113753	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218113802	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. With this financial law, we are giving a historic boost to the fight against social dumping, and it has also been needed because the problems have grown massively. And when we see how people are exploited grossly by employers, it calls for action. And that's what we've done with this Finance Act. But I have become a little in doubt about where the Danish People's Party is. Is it true that the Danish People's Party can support this effort? And how does the Danish People's Party relate to the social dumping that we see on the roads, where we have seen quite grotesque examples of the conditions offered by employees? Can the rapporteur clarify this?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218113835	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218113838	I would like to commend the government and its majority for bringing social dumping. I am very pleased that the appropriations are being increased, in fact more than under the previous government supported by the Danish People's Party. We'd like to sign for that. But I'll say something I can't sign for. In fact, while talking about social dumping, it is now happening that if you come to Denmark as an asylum seeker and have a job for more than two years, you can stay in Denmark as long as you have a job. What's that gonna mean? This will mean that the employer now decides whether this person can stay in Denmark. What kind of work is it that you get? Let's imagine the employer asking, dear Muhammad, or whatever his name is, can you come on Saturday? No, I'm afraid I can't, he answers and then gets the message, well, then maybe I'll have to fire you. Then I guess the employee's coming. I think it is quite grotesque that one can talk about social dumping and have a great heart for it, while at the same time making legislation where it is now the employers who will decide whether one has a residence in Denmark. It's all wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218113931	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218113935	I would very much like to help look at how we can even more protect asylum seekers in this situation, and it is only gratifying if the Danish People's Party wants to play that part. But the rapporteur does not answer the question, and a little classically he starts to refer to some other questions about foreign policy. What is the situation in the heavy goods vehicle sector in relation to the social dumping that we see on the roads? Can we count on the support of the Danish People's Party for the efforts that the Finance Act proposes, or how does the Danish People's Party stand in relation to it?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218114002	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218114005	I can say that in the 2019 Finance Act, which the Danish People's Party had a great influence on, we actually had money set aside to control heavy goods vehicles. So we'd like to. Then what is being asked is whether you want to say yes to the agreement that is in place and that, among other things, is going to happen. The trade union movement and the DA have concluded. And as a starting point, we really want to make these agreements with the parties. What is just important to us is that we do not get a monopoly status. There are some trade unions which, like what to say, lay the foundations and others lose their legitimacy. However, it is important for us that we have a labour market, both in the heavy goods vehicles sector and in all other areas where, of course, we do not see social dumping. And I would also like to sign that there we have always had good cooperation, including with the Social Democratic Party, with no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218114047	Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218114054	Thank you. I would like to take this opportunity to praise the Danish People's Party for taking some initiatives that were on the last financial law that Dansk Folkeparti made together with the blue ones. These are the initiatives that went to the elderly in the country. These were initiatives for approx. One-and-a-half billion. kr. It was an increase in the amount available to pensioners, an incentive for seniors to work and a strengthening of care for the elderly. These were very good initiatives, in fact so good initiatives that the current government has chosen to continue them. We are continuing all the initiatives that were for the elderly, and I suspect the Danish People's Party is having a positive hand in the game in relation to those initiatives. In addition, the new government, together with the other parties behind the Finance Act, finds 125 million. kr. for better care in the care of the elderly. We find new money for a dementia plan, and we give the municipalities such an economic boost that the boost is greater in one municipal economy than you managed to do with four municipal agreements. I guess it's the municipalities that are responsible for primary care for the elderly. How can this not bring praise to the government and the parties behind the Finance Act for our efforts in relation to the country's elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218114200	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218114203	Nor do we go beyond the 125 million. kr., but we might just think that the amount should have been 1 billion. This is why we have tabled amendments to this effect, and we shall be voting on this later in the day. I would also like to say that what we have to remember is that, when the previous government made municipal agreements and concluded them with KL, we came up with a bill of dignity and put it upstairs, just like the 125 million. kr. Also being laid upstairs. It comes on top of the municipal agreement that has been made. But we acknowledge in the Danish People's Party that some sensible agreements have been made with the municipalities. What's in it is that you haven't dared what we dared. We are advocates of municipal self-government, but we said at the time that it should be added to the budgets for 2016 and that is why we could see that in the last parliamentary term the single area where there was the highest growth, the elderly area. Because you locked the money there. What you do now, when you send them out over the block, is that they can be used for anything else. But let's see how it goes. We trust the municipalities and hope that they use them properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218114300	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218114304	Thank you. It is a good thing that the Danish People's Party supports municipal autonomy. I just think that the criticism of the Social Democratic Party in relation to the Finance Act as far as the elderly are concerned is just too high. We have taken the initiatives that target the elderly, for which you must have a great deal of credit, so we have continued them, then we have added money to the dementia action plan, strengthened care for the elderly, and we have made a municipal agreement that surpasses what you could deliver with lengths of time. So I think that we should move up to just throwing a few friendly words after the financial bill, including with regard to the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218114346	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218114349	We are always pleased that the policy we have pursued and the cases we have got through are supported by other parties. I think that's how all parties feel. But we can look at it. In fact, I also started by mentioning some figures. After all, we have a group which is rapidly increasing, and that is the elderly over 80 years of age, and they are, in fact, also demographically unevenly distributed in Denmark. There is no doubt that in the new year we will also have to talk about municipal equalisation, and I would be surprised if the municipalities did not come and say that the area around the elderly should fill something in the municipal equalisation, because there are places in Denmark where there are major challenges in providing the elderly care that I think the Danish People's Party believes the citizens can actually demand. We have more elderly people who live longer, and we welcome this, but it also costs more. So praise for furthering the policy of the Danish People's Party, but we would have liked to have seen what the Social Democrats thought about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218114431	Thank you, sir. René Christensen. Anyone who so wished has received an answer, and that is why we move on to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen from the Radical Left. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218114442	Thank you. When I was here at first reading, I was talking about my two sons, and what it's like as parents to put them to sleep and a rare time to be allowed to look at them when they fall asleep, and that intense hope you have about giving them enough security and love. Now I have just sent the youngest home to vomit at home with the elder and called the father home from work, so it is sometimes the same. It's a good thing somebody can take off and not be here. But my wish for the first reading was and is that when all parents in Denmark put their children to sleep, they can do so with such a basic certainty that we're all elected to the Danish Parliament all the time working for something to be done about the challenges that people have. And that is basically the approach we have. Our objective in the Radical Left is for politics to solve the real problems and for us to be able to respond to the hope that politics and politicians are here to solve problems and not to divide us or undermine our rights. That is why I and many other radicals, together with many different Danes, have folded my hands in a heartbeat over the last few weeks and thank you for the greetings from the Socialist rapporteur. I would even like to do so again here, because of course the Finance Act has not solved all the problems in the world, but it is the first important step in a new direction. And every step we've taken here deserves a heart. Because when you look at last year's Finance Act, it's in stark contrast. Last year a Finance Act was signed with almost a billion kroner for a Expulsion Lake in Stege Bay, with the Danish People's Party's Paradigm Change, with educational savings and with black talk instead of green action. Now we are here one year later with a Finance Act, where we are actually drawing Denmark in a new direction. We get an energy island instead, perhaps more; we invest billions of dollars in our children; we tear down the educational ceiling; we pierce the paradigm shift so that people who work and contribute can continue with it. We Radicals insist on showing the Danes that we have heard the call that came to the elections and that we have understood that it is a desire for change and a noticeable change. It has to be measured and felt, more say. When we sit at the table, people can also count on us to stand firm to the values and to work hard for the right solutions to real problems. So I'm happy with the financial agreement. We make Denmark greener with it. We get a safety net for the electric cars; we get more green buses and taxis; we plant forest and take out farmland, so CO 2 You can safely say that someone is needed to shop when you look out into the world and most recently at the failed COP 25 in Madrid. It can only go too slowly. That is why our common climate law must be followed by much more action. The Finance Act was only a first small step. We are making Denmark freer, and we have stood firm to the values. Now the children are finally being let out of Soulsmark, and we have brought Mint and children like her back home, even with a broad majority, I understand. We get both more common sense and more heart in Danish politics. We are finally getting paid off so that we can again take 500 quota refugees from next year. We will have our development aid lifted with additional green climate aid. Foreigners no longer have to pay to learn Danish. We will get right solutions rather than more symbolism policy for the benefit of those involved and for the benefit of our companies and our society. The day after the Finance Act, I visited DFD, the United Steam Laundry, a company that invests in integration. 70% of the employees who wash, clean and dry the 65,000 tonnes of clothes that smoke through DFD's annual production, have a different ethnic origin than Danish, and a very large proportion of the employees have come to Denmark as refugees. Those people have fled from precarious situations, and they have lived in uncertainty because of the paradigm shift introduced by last year's Finance Act, where refugees who work were not rewarded for precisely working and training, but, on the contrary, perhaps should be sent out. Often they can't do it at all, but uncertainty has had a high price. With this year's Finance Act, we've stopped that crazy thing. We must work again to promote integration, and refugees who work and contribute should no longer be thrown out. Instead, we invest in integration. And we were at DFD just to share the joy of a new direction with the people it's about, both the employees and the company. We can reduce uncertainty and gain more common sense. I am also pleased that the Prime Minister has also called it quite common sense in this Chamber. May it spread even more. We are also making Denmark stronger. We open the way for companies to get skilled workers to Denmark when they cannot recruit at home and in Europe. And we simply need more people in Denmark who can help lift our prosperity and welfare. The companies are missing them, and now we are taking a good step towards a step that the Danish People's Party and, incidentally, the Socialists themselves prevented the previous government from taking. We appreciate that. We're tearing down the educational ceiling. That ceiling was a terrible idea from the start. The damage has been great. We should not have ceilings on education in a world where we need to be able to constantly move and acquire new competences. I personally have struggled hard to get rid of it, and I am very happy about that. Our children may ever get more educators with the greatest boost. We're gonna raise the primary school by 1 billion. kr., so that our schoolchildren can have more teachers and teachers with better time. The savings on training are turned slowly, but surely, into investments • again right solutions rather than more symbolic policy. Is everything all right with this Finance Act? No, of course not. But no one can doubt, I think, that steps have been taken towards a new direction for Denmark. So Merry Christmas and Happy New Year when you get there. I hope it will be a year when the whole parliament, at least most of us, dares to lean into the future. I think that the broad majority behind the Climate Act is a good sign, and I hope that we have the courage to find more right solutions together instead of digging ditches and inflating fear. But, of course, the fight continues, and I dream, for example. that Danes who have committed only the error of falling in love with a person from another country can also live in their homeland with their foreign spouses, that they can also celebrate Christmas together here in Denmark. The fight for a greener, a freer and a stronger Denmark has only just begun for us, but what is certain, and which we should all take on, is that the time is not to sit back, but that it is to lean forward. We will spend 2020 and the years after that on doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218115336	Thank you. The first question is Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen. I think we can make two questioners by lunch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218115343	Thank you for that and thank you for your speech to the radical rapporteur. I am rather interested in the part about the more economical part of the Finance Act, primarily in relation to the labour supply, because I think it is now black and white documented that there is a negative supply of labour compared to the Finance Act. How and how does the Radical Left view the isolated but, above all, whether compensatory measures should be taken and, if so, when should they be made? For the Radical Left, at least in the past, we have been watching for a responsible economic policy that should not weaken the supply of labour.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218115420	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218115423	That is true, and we are deeply concerned about that, and we will be doing so in the future. That's one of them. This is why there is the series of measures which we cannot count on in a supply context because they are demand-driven schemes, that is to say that we will actually have a positive list in which we can get skilled workers into something for which I, the questioner, fought hard but did not get implemented during the previous period of government. It's gonna be possible now. It will be possible for people to get to work instead of being pulled out of business. It will also be possible for foreign students to work earlier and stay here longer. So there is a reserve of people there, which hopefully will mean that we can attract many more. It is clear that we will be following this very, very closely. It is also true that there is a negative supply of work • 200 next year, a little more over the years • among other things. As a result of the abolition of the ceiling on training. We have fought hard for this, but that does not mean, of course, that it should not be corrected. We need people. I've been up here saying that a lot of times. It did not really succeed in attracting anyone during the previous reign. Now I hope that we can get it implemented, and I very much hope that the author's party will take part in the measures that we have included in this financial law.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218115542	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218115545	Yes, we will certainly have ample opportunity to discuss this when we have to deal with the specific proposals. I think that, in relation to the positive list, as I remember it, it has been outsourced to, among others. the social partners, who must define it and then enter into force in the second half of 2020. So it's probably hard to get a pretty big effect from it. But is it in the radical optics next financial law, where the calculation board is to be raised, in relation to how the development has progressed in relation to the supply of labour? Is that where you kind of put two lines below and say that now we're going to be in plus?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218115620	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218115622	The agreement on the positive list is due to enter into force in July, as the Finance Act says, so that there will be time, but there will be no endless time, for us to be able to discuss that arrangement. But I still hope that the rapporteur's party will be very supportive, as I heard the rapporteur's party in the previous period, it was one of the very important measures, so I very much hope so. It is due to come into force in July. And yes, the Radical Left will follow this closely towards each and every Finance Act and therefore the next one, because that scheme must work. We need labour and we need to monitor employment very closely.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218115703	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218115706	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Politics is beautiful, and I used to say that the Danish People's Party agreed with the Radical Left in elementary school policy. I would now like to ask about the policy on foreigners, and we certainly do not agree with that. But that's the way it is. I would like to ask: why is it so important to put an end to the repatriation policy? It is the case that some people have come to Denmark. They have been detained because of their asylum case. This means that they are entitled to stay and protection. Denmark has given them residence and protection. When what they have then fled from ends, why on earth is it so important for the Radical Left that those citizens, those people, should not be sent home and help rebuild the country from which they have come?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218115747	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218115751	Thank you for what I consider to be a genuine and proper question. Sometimes there is such a bit of controversy between the author's party and my own. I'm really happy to have the fine dialogue that I have with Mr. René Christensen, also in this area, because we need to be able to discuss this properly. And what is the essence of this for us, and where it probably separates, is that there are companies, the public sector, everyone else who has invested massively in these people. There must be incentives for integration. It must really pay to make an effort, to train and to work, when you have been here a number of years and had protection for a number of years, because that is the case for these people. These are not asylum seekers, as we heard earlier. After all, they have obtained residence and protection, and it then lapses as a result of the paradigm shift, i.e. the protection status itself. But now we are turning into a business system, and we think that is really, really, really good thinking, if we are to say so ourselves, so that people in whom companies have invested need and do not want to get rid of should not be thrown out again as long as they work.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218115904	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218115908	It may come as no surprise that the Danish People's Party is of course deeply opposed to it. What I would then like to ask is the consequences of relaxing foreign policy in many areas. Then you can call it business policy, or whatever you want to call it, but it will be easier to stay in Denmark. Some changes have also been made to the text. In other words, if you come to Denmark from third world countries, you will get a higher level of benefits. Do the Radicals not agree that it makes Denmark more attractive to come to, and that those people, when they have somehow raised money to get a smuggler to smuggle them to the promised country of Europe, choose the country where the highest benefits can be obtained, and that the policy of the 2020 Finance Act will therefore also lead us to see more asylum seekers coming to Denmark in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218115946	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218115949	There is probably a fundamental difference in how we look at people seeking protection. I guess so. That is basically what this is about. It is not very easy to get protection in Denmark or anywhere else. When you get protection as a refugee in Denmark, it is because you are judged to have reason to escape, not because you want a nicer life somewhere else. Then you will not achieve protection status in Denmark. And that's the difference between this. Because that's the difference between living with your children in poverty while you're here. Is it good for our society and the individual, or is it bad? We believe that, in the long term, it is damaging our society so massively if children are to live in poverty. And in relation to the business system: No, I basically do not agree that it will mean that there will now be many more. It is much later in the process that you can switch to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218120047	Thank you. After 3 hours of debate, there is a good reason to take a lunch break. And the first one asks at 8:00. 13... after lunch, sir. Ole Birk Olesen, and the other one is Mr. Morten Dahlin, and the third is Mrs Marie Krarup. Then you can practice your speech until then.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218130001	The sitting is resumed. Before continuing the debate on finance, I should like to say that today there are the following reports: the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior (Astrid Krag): Bill No. L 86 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Social Insurance. Minister of Justice (Nick Hækkerup): Bill No. L 87 (Proposal for a law amending the Criminal Code, the Code of Procedure, the Law on Competition and Consumer Relations in the Telecommunications Market, the Law on Arms, the Extradition Act and the Law on Extradition of Violators to Finland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden. The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20191218130042	Then we shall continue the debate on the budget with brief comments to the rapporteur of the Radicals, Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. Let me just say that we have an order that is hard to see when it comes to the indistinct writing. The first is Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Then it is Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance, Morten Dahlin, Left, Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party, Louise Schack Elholm, Left, Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left, Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party. And Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens has also come as one of the rapporteurs and is therefore number two in the order. Then we'll have to see if we don't get to them all. But the first person to speak is Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218130131	Thank you. We've made a really good finance bill with a lot of good things. We have strengthened the primary school, the education ceiling is smoking, we have removed the priority contribution in the field of culture and education. Very good has happened. But what I would like to mention here is that we could have done even more. We could do that, for example. If the financing proposal was not pulled out, which was included in the original government finance bill, it would have been impossible to raise the ceiling on the share savings account, an account where, if you have a lot of money, you can use your money to invest in shares and pay a very low tax on the investments and returns you get on it. And this is a very, very biased system which we should have slowed down by setting a ceiling and saying: that system will not be extended. But the Radicals fought a great deal against this, and it ended up not being included in the final agreement. I think this is really a pity because, as I said, it is a very, very uneven regime and the money could be, for example. be used to ensure that, in relation to humanist and social science education, we could have permanently removed the cliff in those areas. We could do that, for example. have spent the money on it. So can we not have a slightly more social approach from the Radicals when we discuss funding next time? Because then I think we can actually go even further.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218130254	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218130255	[Sound Outlook]... can have a radical approach next time to the rapporteur of the Enhedslisten, and there has been this time too, and I also sign that together we got a very good one, I think, Finance Act. The rapporteur also knows very well that if we had not been willing to make some compromises along the way, humanist and social science education would not even have been funded in the years they have been. And we could have given priority to this, I think the rapporteur's party and my own would have done a permanentisation of humanist and social science education at that level. We'll have to deal with that next year. If we did not want to abolish or limit the agreement we have made in an earlier agreement to raise the share savings account, that is something that has also been promoted earlier in today's debate because we need both. We need there to be people, including here, ordinary employees, who dare to risk something that dares to invest in shares, even in the companies they are in, so that those companies have the opportunity to invest more and precisely create new jobs, new growth and new opportunities, also to invest in welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218130412	Thank you. Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218130413	Now Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen says that it must be for ordinary people who invest in shares. But when you look at who it is that gets the most out of this scheme in crowns and ears, there's no doubt that it's the 10%. The richest in our society. It is a very, very skewed arrangement. So I'm just saying, why couldn't we spend that money on a lot of good things? Because we are getting a long way in the Finance Act, but we could have gone even further, in other words, in terms of welfare, education, green conversion. So why should money be given to such crooked, antisocial schemes when they could have been spent on, for example. Humanities and Social Sciences? That is simply what I have not quite had a good argument for.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218130452	Yes, please! The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218130453	That is because we also need a business community and people who dare take a risk, and that is what this account is all about. It is true that it is those with the most money that have the most opportunity to invest. Now we want to spread it out so that you actually get a bigger prize if you take a risk. And that means that companies can grow and can themselves take risks and invest in new technologies, new opportunities, perhaps even in research, which will enable us to solve some of the challenges we face as a society and which will create new jobs. That is the balance we in the Radical Left want to find.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218130530	Thank you. Then Conservatives' rapporteur, Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, let us be clear, and since we take the rapporteurs according to the size of the parties, it is now Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, Conservative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218130539	Thank you. I would like to ask about the overall economic effects of the Finance Act. Radicals were very staunch before the Finance Act negotiations that they would not be involved in creating a Finance Act which reduced the supply of labour in Denmark. Now a Finance Act is being drawn up which reduces the supply of labour in Denmark. Why have Radicals agreed to this? According to the newspapers, a figure of 1,300 fewer people has been reported permanently because of this financial law. At a time when the Danish economy and the Danish business community's biggest challenge is precisely to get more hands, you are now reducing the supply of work. Why has it not been important for Radicals to stand firm on what was promised to the electorate before the agreement was reached here?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218130631	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218130633	As I replied, Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen earlier before the break here... It is true that the total financial agreement gives 200 fewer next year and 900 fewer in the years after, and it is a challenge if we do not get enough people for the Danish labour market. That is why there are a number of initiatives in this Finance Act, including: a positive list for skilled workers with which companies can draw labour. This is an initiative which I know the rapporteur's party would really have liked to have implemented if they had had a majority in the previous period. They didn't, but now we've got it through. I assume that the rapporteur's party also supports this. However, it is a demand-driven scheme and therefore it does not count for supply in the same way. We will follow this very closely, because we still need more people to drive growth and development in Denmark. Companies still lack labour, even though there is a slight slowdown in relation to growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218130740	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218130741	Yes, I know that is the position of Radicals, but the question is why you do not stand by it. The support parties on the left, the Radical Left and the Social Democrats have made a financial law that makes Denmark poorer. This is the first financial law in many years, with such a negative effect on the supply of work as you have here. One has turned away from the course that has been taken for many decades in Denmark, where we have made reforms that make Denmark richer, and now one makes a Finance Act that makes Denmark poorer. All income groups get less money between their hands and there is a smaller supply of labour. Why do Radicals agree to this?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218130817	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218130818	There is a huge restoration task in relation to education. To tear down the training ceiling is one of the things that pulls out most of the supply. We welcome the fact that some people are training a little bit more, but we agree that we have to make sure that companies have the manpower they need all the time. That is why we have included the initiatives in this Finance Act, which we think has become a very good financial law. I can also assure the rapporteur that this is not something we are shying away from. This is something that the Radical Left will constantly follow up on every single year.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218130854	Thank you. Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218130855	We are faced with a financial law that makes Denmark poorer. It is sad. The argument we hear so often is that the money is spent on something sensible. When I look at the Finance Act, there is a section called several teachers, but there I would like the rapporteur to clarify what guarantee we have that there will be more teachers in primary school. Because when you ask KL, KL says the government and the Folketing shouldn't decide what they're spending this money on. It may well be that they will make educational development; it may be that they will hire more project people. But they cannot guarantee that the money will be spent on more teachers. So can the rapporteur guarantee that with this financial law there will actually be more teachers in primary school?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218130941	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218130942	That is what the money is set aside for, and it is clearly marked. After all, these are the debates on what is now to be started by the Minister for Children and Education. I am actually a little concerned about who told the rapporteur in the KL that they would like to spend that money on a number of other things. Those I've spoken to in KL were also pretty concerned about these things, that is, more teachers.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218131002	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218131003	It was theirs. What's it called? I'll give you a link to his name, because he was the one who said it because you couldn't guarantee that this money will be spent on more teachers. And that is also what lies in the system of self-government, which means that when you give more money from in here, you cannot guarantee it unless you claim and earmark this money to be used only for more teachers. But that is not what the Finance Act says. It's just a boost to primary school in general, but the money might as well be for more managers, it can be for more consultants, it can be for anything but more teachers. But you write a headline entitled "More Teachers." We can only note now that it is quite simply a guide to what the municipalities are hoping to spend money on... not a requirement.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218131047	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218131048	I think we are going to become quite clear that these are more teachers and that is why the title of the section on this in the Finance Act says so. It is precisely to support the new start that the primary school must have, and the totally paramount challenge in primary school is that we need teachers and that we need teachers who have enough time.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218131110	Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen, LA.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218131113	Thank you. Many companies report that they find it difficult to find work for job vacancies. This is a problem that has been going on for some time, and it is also a problem that is likely to be going on for some time to come. The answer in this Finance Act is twofold: one is that in the long term the number of people in Denmark who provide their labour will be reduced by 900 people, that is to say almost 1,000; the other is that there will be an increase in employment in the public sector by 5 000 people. This means that there are approx. 6,000 people are less available as a result of the Finance Act for Employment in Private Enterprises, which is already in need of new employees. Is this a success story for the Radical Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218131206	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218131207	It is true that the answer in this Finance Act is twofold. It is education; it is much better to invest in education rather than to cut back massively. It's getting more educators and teachers for our children, so they do better. This is very good, even for companies later on. And then sticking to it is because I agree with the rapporteur that we need labour. That is why we have been assured, among other things. a system of skilled labour; that companies can keep those who lose their protection base but are in work in companies, because companies have invested in them and should not suddenly be missing them and losing all the funds they have invested; that students can also stay here longer and earlier and thus become a gain, which is also what companies have asked for. By the way, all of them have received great praise from the business community. So I think we are very well balanced with the measures that need to be taken in particular, I fully agree with the rapporteur in order to ensure more labour.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218131308	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218131309	After all, business is a broad issue. There is business in all corners of Denmark, and every place there are also some people who are part of the business community. Business has also problematized that the Radical Left and the other red parties, at a time when the company is having difficulty finding labour, choose to increase public employment by 5 000 people, i.e. 5 000 people, who are then not available for employment in private companies. Is that really what it takes now, at a time when we still have a very, very large public sector in Denmark, but where there is also a shortage of labour in the private sector, that is to say, that the public sector is putting itself on more of the labour available and that, moreover, that workforce is getting smaller because of this financial law?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218131357	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218131358	I have not heard business say that we should continue to cut back on education. It is clear that this also increases the public sector. We need to invest in education. It is a huge gain for Danish companies that we do it. So we are really happy about that; there was a lot that had to be corrected. We need more teachers for our children and teachers with better time. We also need more educators, because we are going to work so that we can send our children to have it properly, and so that we are confident that they are thriving. That is what people have become unsure of, because there are far too few. So these things are connected. And no, we must ensure that there is enough labour in the future too, and we will do so too.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218131440	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Dahlin, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218131440-2	I would like to start by congratulating the rapporteur on a fine and optimistic speech, and also congratulating the rapporteur, at least in the public debate, for always focusing on both sides when discussing the economy. It is both the part that is about spending money and the part that is about making money... they need to be earned before they can be used. That part may not have been included so much in the Finance Act. After all, the Radical Left has concluded a financial agreement with the other red parties, which weakens employment by as much as 900 people in the years to come. The rapporteur then responds today that it will be closely followed by the rapporteur and that the Radical Left will keep the area under observation. Could we have a deadline for the Radical Left to take initiatives to boost employment in order to offset the reduction in employment that the Radical Left has helped to create with the conclusion of the financial agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218131535	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218131536	Thanks for the rose. It is truly appreciated, quite sincerely. It is very nice that we can do this, including here in the Parliamentary Chamber. And it is absolutely crucial for us in the Radical Left that it is always financially responsible to ensure that we have enough labour. It is the companies and the private sector that are helping to finance that we can develop a smashing public sector, which will then once again contribute to the creation of skilled businesses. That is why I mentioned earlier the educators, the teachers and the training programmes, on which we have reinvested and stopped the savings. This is very good, including for companies. However, I agree that it needs to be followed closely and we are taking an initiative on the deadline requested by the questioner. It's already here. There are initiatives in this Finance Act to ensure that companies can attract additional labour and other initiatives that the previous government could not get through. So we are very pleased with that. If they do not work, if there is not enough labour, we must follow up as early as next year.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218131644	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218131644-2	Thank you. Now the rapporteur has just said it at the end, and then the rapporteur can simply confirm whether I have understood correctly: if, on the basis of the elements now contained in the financial law agreement, by 2020 there will not be sufficient foreign labour, will Radicals demand that agreements be made to strengthen employment in line with what has been weakened in the financial law agreement in 2020?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218131715	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218131715-2	What is correctly understood is that the overall direction must constantly strengthen Denmark. And we have said quite publicly and fully that we will follow it in every budget law. So it is correctly understood by the rapporteur that, in the next financial law, we must be able to assess whether this system is working properly and companies will have the manpower they need, because that can also change depending on how the world develops. Is employment increasing? It is a goal we have set in the understanding paper. This must be followed up and will be followed up by the next Finance Act at the latest.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218131750	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218131752	Thank you. Now I hear that the rapporteur talks a lot about the well-being of children and that there must be more educators, and that is something we cannot really disagree with. The big question for us is a little that money has now been set aside for so-called minimum standards, but it is the case that 35%. of the country's children are actually being cared for in day care, and there is no money set aside for them. There are a lot of day care providers who have five children daily, because there is a lot saved on day care, so they have to complement each other when holiday and holidays are taken. In other words, they actually often have a ranking on an adult for five children. That's one thing. The second point is that we cannot really be sure whether this minimum rating will be a municipal average or whether it will apply to every day offer. I would like to hear from the rapporteur: what model is being chosen, and why has the children who attend day care not been given priority?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218131845	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218131845-2	I am glad that the questioner is bringing it up. In fact, we have our own day care in our financial law game. It is true that we have now given a massive priority to raising the day institutions. Let's hope that we can also get into this area later. It's not for us a either or. It is a massive boost, a historic boost, I dare say here, to the day-care sector that is going to happen. What model should be chosen should the rapporteurs in this area negotiate over with the Minister for Children and Education, and I think that will be a good thing. For us, it is important that it is about a boost to educators and to our children directly to all children. They are educators who need to be linked to day care institutions, so there will be more educators for all children. That is what is important to us. What we call the model, we're actually a little less concerned about.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218131939	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218131940	So we were enlightened. Then I have a different angle, because it is also the case that the Radical Left would particularly like to see relief in the area of foreigners, and when that happens there will be more immigrants on an ongoing basis. It is therefore very often those who get free places out in the municipalities, and the municipalities are not dut'ed for a free space. That's $3,700. for a crèche place and 2,400 DKK. for a kindergarten spot. That money must be found in their own budgets, and then the big question is: will the municipalities be dut for free places in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218132009	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218132010	I'm not buying the premise. I completely disagree with the questioner that free places should be required in the municipalities, because people who today contribute and pay taxes and in which companies have invested, as they are now moving to a business scheme, are not being poured out of the country, so companies lack them. It doesn't add up at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218132036	Then it's Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218132037	We have made many good agreements in the past to create more growth and employment in Denmark. We have made a business tax package, we have made reforms to ensure a better supply of labour. But perhaps there I think that this financial law is pulling a little in the wrong direction with a negative employment rate, with a less incentive to take a job, with worse conditions for companies. How will the Radicals move forward to ensure that it is still worthwhile to have a business in Denmark or to continue to take a job when you join in adding votes to a Finance Act that does exactly the opposite?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218132118	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218132119	I completely disagree that it is doing exactly the opposite. We are abolishing the training ceiling and investing in training. There is a strong demand, among other things. from Danish Industry, after we get rid of this educational ceiling, which I can now understand the Left will not even help abolish. So it is absolutely business-friendly. And then we have taken these initiatives, which I am almost tired of hearing myself repeat; regret, but now I do, because it is a whole series of initiatives that have to ensure that there can be labour in Denmark, among other things. foreign labour • skilled foreign labour • something for which the author's party worked hard but did not come through in the last period. This is of benefit to the Danish business community.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218132207	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218132207-2	Well, I'm certainly excited if you can get some qualified labour for Denmark, so that's not what I'm belittling at all. What I'm just worried about is that for example... Some of the taxes that we removed as a result of our business and entrepreneurial package are now reintroducing the Radicals with this financial bill. There you add votes to reinstate taxes that we agreed to remove together precisely to ensure better conditions of competition for Danish companies and that we did not have any taxes that were so expensive and bureaucratic to have, which did not generate much revenue, and which did not really have an effect on behaviour either. That is why I am surprised at the fact that we do not have the part that I have seen in the past that the Radicals actually burned a lot too. I just think it is completely missing from this financial law, and that is what I cannot understand, and that is what I am asking the rapporteur about.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218132252	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218132252-2	But we have never burned down to reduce the PVC tax or to reduce environmental taxes, but in an overall business agreement where, among other things, we have. We made a deal on stock savings accounts and other good things, we were really happy with that part. However, we are fully committed to raising taxes on things that we believe are harmful and that we would like to have less of, so that we can lower them and take initiatives in relation to what we would like to have more of, for example. foreign labour. That is the general balance we want to find. By the way, we also feel very good about abolishing Fogh's tax freeze on, among other things. Roundup and other things.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218132330	Then it's mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218132331	Thank you. That was a very clear speech from the radical rapporteur. I think I got it written down quite correctly, so I'm trying to quote: we're starting the paradigm shift with the Finance Act. Quote out. It seems to the rapporteur that I have not got it all wrong. That's a clear speech. Then I would just like to hear what the radical rapporteur thinks the truth value is from the Prime Minister of the country or the country's Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration when they say that the government is completely vigilant about the policy of permanent aliens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218132412	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218132413	I think we are good at interpreting things in many ways in both the Social Democrats and the Left. For us, the most important result is not the controversy. In fact, I am completely unoccupied with it, so the rapporteur must go with the Socialists. What I am concerned about is that companies can now keep employees in whom they have invested in whom they are happy, whom they do not want to be poured out of the country, since they have spent money investing in them • people they cannot replace because they have difficulty finding others. It is quite common sense that has been cheered through by the companies out there, and frankly I think that the rapporteur and his party should return to their roots and support that initiative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218132501	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218132501-2	I don't mean to be polemical. I just think it is quite essential that there is a common understanding of the policy being pursued. I understand that the Radical Left is pleased with the concessions made to foreigners, and that is quite fair, quite legitimate, it is politics, and I congratulate the Radicals when they get their points through, because that is what we are all fighting for in here. But then it just has to be connected to what it is, the consequence of it is. So I ask in a slightly different way: does the Radical Left believe that the government's policy on foreigners is unanticipated with this financial law, or has it been relaxed?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218132540	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218132541	I just don't want to buy a tighter ride and a better ride. It died when we got away from the '00s, and now you're gonna have to move on in the left, too. Frankly, people out there are simply not concerned about whether something is called one or the other, they are concerned about what the effect of it is, just as the rapporteur said. And the effect is that companies can keep people they've invested in and that they can't replace.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218132610	Then it is Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218132612	Thank you. We are now getting more foreigners in Denmark, unfortunately, after the new Finance Act, because migrants and family members can now stay if they have work, and for the same reason more migrants are likely to come to the country, including, of course, also from Muslim countries. Last week we had a series of arrests in connection with plans for an Islamist terrorist attack, as the police put it. Does the Radical Left not agree with me that religion is an essential factor in a planned Islamist terrorist attack, and does it not therefore also believe that increased Islamic presence in Denmark caused by the new Finance Act will also increase the risk of future Islamist terrorist attacks in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218132713	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218132714	I believe that extremism of every kind is a huge danger to us here in Denmark, and extremism often finds its interpretation roots in something religious of every kind. We can historically see that it has done so.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218132746	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218132748	Thank you for the answer, which was not an answer. There is no connection between Islamist terror and Islam, I understand. I'm surprised. I am not surprised, however, that the rapporteur is closing his eyes to this, because one has to recognise that the rapporteur's party has helped to ensure that we have a very large Muslim minority in Denmark, an excessive one which will now grow because of the new financial agreement, in which we want global market forces to decide who should be in which countries, rather than taking on a national responsibility to defend the Danish people against the dangers that threaten and will now be greater, in that we will have an increased Muslim minority, which may be able to plan new Islamist terrorist attacks.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218132840	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218132840-2	First of all, I said that extremism sometimes has its roots in religion, but in different religions, every kind. And yes, Islamist terror has its roots in Islamist Islam, but it is, of course, an interpretation of a religion. Secondly, I would like to say that it is quite crazy that the rapporteur here, without blinking, is linking a financial law to ensure that companies can keep employees in which they have invested and who pay taxes to our treasury every month and contribute in this country and can only stay here if they contribute to Islamist terror. It's crazy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218132922	Thank you. The last person to ask a question is Mr. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance. And there's actually room for one more. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218132933	Thank you. It has to be said that the creativity of our bourgeois citizens is very great, because I too want to address the issue of growth and prosperity and reforms that can make Denmark richer, because what the private industry is crying out for are labour supply reforms that make more hands available for the labour market and more people who want to work an hour more or two. With all due respect for the results of the Radicals, it is not the case that more people are available for the labour market just because universities have suffered more money in their budget and the fact that there are some new minimum standards that will mean that teachers have an average of two minutes extra per year. child, doesn't mean that there are more who will then work longer because of the 2 minutes. What's hitting something is, among other things. What you have got around foreign labour, but we are still away in the petty department, and I really just want to hear what the Radical Left has of ambition in this parliamentary term in relation to reforms that increase the supply of work. You want to look at what do I know? Do you have any ambitions that will increase the supply of work?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218133040	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218133041	Thank you for that and also for the creativity. That's quite fair. There are, in fact, a few other initiatives in the Finance Act which may not have received much attention. There is a smaller, I recognize, initiative called the extension of basic integration training, which includes the group it is not so large, but it is there, for example, by. immigrant women who have been in Denmark for a long time without getting into employment because they lack basic skills: language, elementary school graduation or what corresponds to it. So I also hope that the rapporteur's party, which has also supported that scheme, will be involved in promoting this, because we have to get into all these corners in such a way. We in the Radical Left are not in the lead where we are thinking that now there needs to be a new unemployment benefit reform for the 'no' or that the benefits now need to be reduced further. On the contrary, we are concerned that we have fewer poor families in Denmark. But a large number of other things, for example. to reduce the tax, as indicated in our own draft budget, we would like to take part in looking at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218133153	Sir. Van opslagh, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218133154	We warmly support initiatives that can provide more foreign labour in Denmark and strengthen the entire integration basic education effort. But otherwise I can hear that there has actually been some paradigm change on the part of the Radical Left, because after decades of looking up for significant labour supply reforms, it is actually now said that there is no ambition to do so. You want to mess with something in relation to foreign labour and integrate some refugees. Maybe you want to look at something with treasure if you can afford it, but otherwise you have no ambition. I would just like the rapporteur to confirm that there has actually been a political shift and change of attitude in the Radical Left away from Margrethe Vestager's reform tendencies and then to something new that is more left-wing, to put it bluntly.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218133238	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218133239	No, I can't confirm that. It is quite the same values and the same direction that we stand on, but Mrs Margrethe Vestager did so well, and that is what we stand on and are building on, and I am sure that the economic wise men, if they could otherwise report again, there are so little problems with that; I am glad that the rapporteur's party has regretted that decision • also this spring would tell us that we are on very solid reforms that will ensure the Danish economy in the future. This does not mean that we should not take initiatives if it goes the other way. We in the Radical Left will be ready for that at any time.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218133323	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We move on to Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218133334	Children, children, children. Then came the Children's Finance Act. It was also the title of the SF's own draft budget, and I think we can also call that the draft budget that we are dealing with today. On 2 December, we ended decades of child cuts, we agreed to introduce a law on minimum standards, we put an end to the devastating savings in education, and we begin the absolutely necessary effort for the climate • everything that is pointing forward and that must ensure a much better life for our children. In the SF, we have fought so hard for the children to have more educators, we have gone on the streets for this, we have promised in the election campaign, and we have fought for this in the budget negotiations, not only thanks to the Enhedslisten, to the Radical Left, to the Alternative and to the Social Democratic Government and the Social Democratic Party. Now it's all well on the way to becoming a reality. But first of all, it wouldn't have happened at all if it weren't for the parent movement...Where is there an adult?.. for BUPL, the educators' union, for the FOA and for all the children and their parents and grandparents who went on the street to show their dissatisfaction with decades of cuts. With the financial law agreement, we are introducing a law on minimum standards, and we have agreed that there should be at least one adult for three children in the nursery and an adult for six children in the nursery. In order to make this a reality, over the next few years we will be spending at least 1.6 billion. kr. So it is the welfare area that gets the absolute greatest boost on the budget law. With such a boost to the children's area, more trained educators will, of course, be needed, and that is why we are strengthening the pedagogic education; it has long been underfunded, but now it is getting a real boost. There are also plenty of other good elements in the Finance Act. For example, we are giving the primary school a boost which over the years amounts to 1 billion. kr. to the primary school, which has long been bothering too many students in the class and too much noise and unrest. We want more teachers for our young people in school, and we will, of course, remove the education ceiling and the deterioration in the humanities and social sciences of 300 million. kr. Changing governments have long been talking about gaps in our psychiatry, and now we are doing something about it. The area will be added to 600 million. kr. in the next year and the following years, and additional money has been earmarked for social policy on top of the social reserve that has to be raised in the area. We have also given a major boost to the fight against social dumping, and then we have removed the savings in the field of culture. Then there is the green, and it has been a struggle with and against each other, but I think, first of all, I have to say that with very few exceptions, it is now a battle that has come all the way into the Chamber, where most of us agree that it is one of the most important things to fight for, and it costs money. We have refused to push the task into the spring climate action plan and called for us to get started now. Through our President, we have proposed that we should make some funds for these initiatives early, and we welcome the green future fund that has come out of the financial law agreement, a fund that must invest in the safe future of our children as well. This fund will contain 25 billion. kr. to everything from climate investment to climate forest, land take-offs, green taxes, green transport, bicycle pool and study of green government bonds. In addition, there are 150 million. kr. for climate aid, because it is also important. This is also something for which I know the Radical Left has fought very hard, and for which I would also like to express my thanks. The green transition is a global task and we have a responsibility to the poorest countries in the world in particular. We are also slowing down the tax increase that would have hit the electric cars, an area which has been hit so much by a zigzag course for many years, but which I hope will be the end of now when next year we get some recommendations on what future transport should look like. There was also a special case for SF, namely that in order to finance the proposals we no longer have to glorify the children of the most resourceful in terms of lucrative rules for parental buying. The scheme is, of course, very much biased, and I do not know who has come up with the idea that ordinary people's tax dollars should subsidise, that the wealthiest can get a tax credit and a cut in the price of buying apartments, where we can see in the big cities in particular that it has really pushed housing prices. In addition, we are also pleased with the funding element, which means that company heirs will have to pay 15% again. in housing and gift fees, just as ordinary people have to pay it. That is also something that the wise men have said is a good idea, and then it is only right and proper. I do not have time to sum up all the good elements here, but let me just highlight a few of them. We have received an inequality statement, money for Danwatch, KVINFO, women's crisis centers, maternity fund for self-employed people, the parent organisation FOLA, the Animal Watch Centre, the Kemiluppen, and an extra effort for the wage pool projects that otherwise seemed to expire. I think it is fair to say that this is a large and handsome and red and green financial law, and there have been compromises, and it has cost something, but the result is more than approved, and from the SF we think this is really the children's financial law.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218134002	Thank you. Then we'll start with the questions, and first it's Mr. Kim. Troels Lund Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218134008	Thank you. And thank you for your speech. What I am a little interested in is the whole discussion about inequality, which has filled a lot in previous debates, and which I also remember that Enhedslisten does not Enhedslisten, it was wrong to say SF It was perhaps still too much praise to give to SF to be named Enhedslisten. But how and how does the SF view the results of the Finance Act when one hears the answers given by the Minister of Finance in relation to the Gini coefficient and the things that have been at least the case in the past for the SF?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218134044	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218134045	I think it's a really nice financial law, and it's funded really, really fine. We have plenty of proposals that we have not come through, but, as the Minister for Finance said, we have to make financial legislation together for many years to come, so there has to be something for the years to come as well. When the Gini coefficient subscribes out the way it does, it is because you measure income and not on wealth. And it is seriously on the wealth side that some steps have been taken both in relation to parent purchase and in relation to generational change, i.e. the housing and gift tax. There we just have to say that some of what we really wanted in the SF is also some better data, i.e. that we get data on e.g.. wealth inequality in Denmark because it is difficult to have a proper discussion about it when there are such big blind spots in the way you calculate data.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218134139	Sir. Troels Lund Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218134140	Thank you. That was somehow a very honest answer. So, is it to be understood that the discussion about the Gini coefficient has one meaning, when the SF is the support party for the government, but that one has a slightly different view in relation to the way one calculates the Gini coefficient when one is in opposition? Well, now there are problems with data, and now you have to see if you can get another picture. But it is not because the SF has not pursued this agenda in the past, and that is why I am simply surprised that we can then legitimise a financial law which means that people are getting poorer.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218134212	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218134214	Yes, but what is really really sad in this discussion is that with the policy pursued under the previous government, it would have turned out that inequality would have increased even more than what we have black and white if we had had true data. For the inequality that has arisen through the policy of the previous government on the part that is not expected today would have meant that we could have seen that inequality has increased even more than it is. We want a more accurate way of calculating the Gini coefficient. But what we have seen over the past four years has not even been as bad as it was under the previous government.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218134255	Then it's mr. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218134256	Thank you. I would really just like to stay in the same groove that the rapporteur of the Left started by also being in. I was going to google a little chaotic, skewed finance laws and finance laws that increase inequality. You can just google on it a little, and then you can get to a whole lot from 2015, for example on December 23, where you have a chaotic, crooked financial law that increases inequality by 0.08 compared to the Gini Coefficient, chaotic, crooked. Now we have a financial law for 2020 which increases it by 0.11, i.e. significantly more than in 2015. So I just want to ask the rapporteur whether this is a chaotic and crooked financial law, which the SF is now voting in favour of. And then you have to remember one thing about 2015. That's absolutely right about the Gini coefficient. It was because some people got more, but you didn't take anything from anyone. Somebody got some more. What you do now is some people get less. Those who have the least get poorer, and therefore the Gini coefficient increases. It's not because someone gets richer, but only because some people get poorer. I just want to ask if this is a chaotic and crooked financial law that is now being passed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218134400	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218134401	If sir... René Christensen and DF had been the support party for a government which had done something so much to increase equality and reduce inequality, so I would have very much liked to have forgiven that one did not have the right numbers. But that was the same answer I gave to the Left just now. Inequality has actually increased more than what we have in black and white, more than that, and that is the sad story. If DF had been the guarantor that those figures were really much nicer, and if DF had pushed for the loss of wealth, then I'm pretty sure I would have said thank you to DF because you had influenced the government in that direction. But the problem was that it went in the wrong direction, the opposite direction, the figures were even worse than that. I simply think it is incredible that the DF has used its speaking time today to talk it out, that we are again getting a living and gift tax of 15%, so much down.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218134507	Sir. René Christensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218134508	Well, this is crazy. You stand there praising a bill of finance where some people are getting poorer. It is fair that you are angry that some people are getting richer, you may be, but that you can actually praise the fact that some people are getting poorer, I simply do not understand. The redistribution policy is totally biased and chaotic when the best thing that can happen is that some people get less. The worst thing that can happen is that some people get more. It is true that we had a financial law where the Gini coefficient was also stoned, if one can afford to say so, because there were some who got more, but we did not take anything from anyone. Here it happens that you take from those who have the very least. It's down there, the bias is coming. So I would just like to ask: is it not the children's families who have to pay the extra cost of day care?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218134546	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218134548	The reason why it affects the Gini Coefficient is that it is also a discussion we had in the Finance Act negotiations... is that it is about some very, very harmful products, PVC, phthalates, plastic, etc., where we increase the tax. We do so with our eyes open. The second thing that makes a lot of money is that we increase the price of cigarettes. It is not an easy decision, because there are some who have to pay more for it, including people who do not have that much money. So this is not something we take lightly on, but we do it because we think it is so important.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218134624	Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218134625	Thanks for the speech. When SF's party chairman, Pia Olsen Dyhr, was asked on TV 2 News about the effects of the Finance Act on tax pressure, labour supply, growth and such, she replied, according to Berlingske, that she knew nothing about it. It was obviously not important for Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr to know what the effect of the Finance Act would be on Danish economy before she agreed to conclude a Finance Act. That is why the Finance Act is as poor as it is when you look at the effect it will have on growth and employment in Denmark, namely that it has a direct negative effect on the supply of work. Isn't it a bit irresponsible that you sit and make a budget law without making a difference about the effect it has on the Danish economy, that you are so preoccupied with distributing gifts to the public sector that it ends up becoming a financial law that actually makes Denmark poorer and reduces wealth in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218134726	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218134727	I know, sir. Rasmus Jarlov is well aware of this, but if anyone had to keep up, I would like to outline what some of what has a negative effect on the work supply is. The most negative part of the job supply is that we remove the ceiling on dual training, that is to say the ceiling on training. Are we doing this with our eyes open? Yes, we do. Another problem which is adversely affecting the supply of work is the abolition of the residence requirement for entitlement to benefit. Are we doing this with our eyes open? We do; we really appreciate it. A third negative feature of the supply of labour is the threefold increase in taxes on carrier bags and one-off services. Are we doing this with our eyes open? Yes, we do; we want less plastic. These are the three things that are most negative in terms of the supply of work. Can we live with the fact that it has a negative effect on 100 people when we remove the education ceiling, impose taxes on plastic and remove residence requirements for the right to daily allowance? Yes, we can do that very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218134829	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218134830	Well, there are some of these initiatives that you can defend in isolation, but then you should have made some other initiatives which then meant that you didn't end up with a Finance Act, which on the bottom line means that there are fewer Danes coming into work. At a time when the Danish economy's biggest challenge right now is that there is a shortage of labour, it is strange that SF enters into a finance agreement without even knowing what the effect of the Finance Act is on the labour supply. Is that really a responsible way to do this? Should it not have been possible to understand what the effect on the supply of work is before signing the agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218134906	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218134907	Now Mr. Rasmus Jarlov was not present in the room, but we were actually discussing a lot of work offerings, also in the more, what to call it, speculative end, for example. the effect of raising the price of cigarettes on the supply of labour. This has a positive effect on the supply of work of 400 people. One way or another we can discuss this is quite logical, but it does, so the fact that we have raised the price of cigarettes has a positive effect on the supply of work of 400 people.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218134935	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218134938	Thank you. I would like to take a closer look at more teachers in primary school. I asked a question earlier to the radical rapporteur, but we did not really get any closer. How will the SF guarantee that the funds set off on the Finance Act will actually go to more teachers in the primary school? And how many more teachers do you expect with the money you have set off that comes at every primary school?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218135001	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218135002	In fact, I would like to thank you for the question, because it is a perfectly legitimate question that we often get when there is something specific that we would like to examine. It is the same with the minimum standards, where there are some who criticise us for saying that it must now be a law and that we are in charge of the municipalities in relation to some money they get. We are doing this exceptionally because we have been able to see that things are as bad in the area of children as they are. In the area of primary school, we have said in the financial law agreement that this money is targeted at more teachers in our primary school. That is what we want with it. Is this some kind of minimum standards for teachers? No, it's not. However, we are also making it easier for the municipalities to give proper priority because we have not made cut-back agreements with them, but, on the contrary, have given a boost of 1.3 per cent. That's why you don't have to go around splicing and removing in all sorts of ways. So we have given a very clear signal that it has to go to more teachers.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218135109	Lars Boje Mathiesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218135110	Okay, now we're a little closer to that. So it's just a guide that comes from in here, a desire from the Folketing for what to spend the money on. But SF's view is that it should be up to the individual municipality what they want to spend this money in the field of education for. So it may well be for the development of pedagogy, it may be for more consultants, it may be for anything else • more managers, more central administration in the field of education. But there is no guarantee that there will be more teachers out in the public schools of the money they have set aside.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218135137	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218135138	In the very large increase in the primary school, which has been set aside in the Finance Act, it says that the money must go to more teachers. The money is also distributed according to a model in relation to the number of children etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218135157	No, but it was just because the rapporteur was breathing, and then I thought it was over, but there are 15 seconds left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218135206	It is completely targeted more teachers in primary school. The only way to avoid it, as Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen talks about is doing, for example. minimum standards, and we have done so specifically in the area of children.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218135225	Then it's Mai Villadsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218135226	Thank you. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the SF, because you have fought very hard to ensure that we need more funds to combat generational pollution. These are pollutions that are around our country and that are inherited to us from previous generations, where companies have polluted, and these are large lands that we need to clean up. After all, we did not manage to get any more funding from the Finance Act to clean up these lands, but I would like to know whether the SF is involved in fighting together to ensure that the regional agreements provide more funds for this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218135306	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218135307	In other words, it is true that it is technically located in the regions. But in the SF we have been fighting for a lot of years to say: this is the result of the scandalous policy of the past, where you just thought you could pour poison into the ground, which then lies many decades later, and which is what Mrs Mai Villadsen is also talking about now. This is among other things. Høfte 42, and it's a lot of places in the country where we see these generational pollutions. We want what we have also fought for in this Finance Act and thank you for the recognition that the money that is needed is put off on a financial law. Whether they are put off separately in a regional agreement may well be discussed, but we simply think that we owe each other that there should not be places in Denmark where one should be afraid to send one's children out and play on a beach or in some other area, because the children's play called the Earth is poisoned is so much to be taken literally there.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218135413	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218135414	I fully agree with that, and we also believe that these pollutions should be cleaned up over the next generation. Because we cannot benefit from the fact that we do not know which discharges come from those particular pollutants, but also from the point-source pollutions that are around them. That is why I hope that together we will be able to lift it both when it comes to the regional agreement, but also, of course, in future financial agreements.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218135442	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218135442-2	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218135446	Then it's Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218135448	Thank you. I would like to start by stressing that I am not asking a question about the Gini coefficient and inequality. I ask you how much money different groups in society have at their disposal, how much money they have for spending. If we look at this finance bill, it looks like you're going the exact opposite way to what the SF went to the polls. In the election campaign, SF was in the shoes claiming that in Denmark there were poor families, families who could not afford the children to go to football, that children could go to children's birthdays, that they could buy new clothes, etc. All these families, no matter what income group they belong to, are getting poorer with this financial law. They want less money to go to football, they want less money for children's birthdays, they want less money to buy clothes for. It's the result of this financial law that the SF has negotiated. We have the figures from the Ministry of Finance. All groups in Danish society, including the lower tenth and the next tenth and the third bottom tenth, become poorer as a result of this financial law. How can SF think it's a good finance bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218135558	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218135559	It's incredibly touching to feel the Liberal Alliance's concern for the poorest families of children in this country. I will keep that in mind when we need all the mandates of the Folketing in the fight to get rid of, for example. the ceiling on cash benefits and other poverty benefits. Because that's the biggest single reason there are poor children in this country. In 2017 alone, when the Liberal Alliance was in power, the number of poor children increased by 12,000 in 1 year. The fact that this has not yet been achieved is, of course, because a Commission of Service has been set up to work. SF has also spoken very critically about the fact that the words poverty and child poverty are not mentioned in the Performance Commission. But I simply think it is so brazen that the Liberal Alliance, after we have made a financial law that lifts public spending by 1.3 per cent.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218135713	Thank you. Then it's Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218135714	Well, we can then see from the Finance Act that it is not what the SF calls poverty benefits, which is the single reason why people are so-called poor. For them, the SF has contributed to the withdrawal now along with the other red parties. They get a new temporary family allowance, which makes you think that now they have enough family money out there. But they still remain what the SF calls poor. They even have less money because of this finance law than before, because taxes eat their income. So the question is again: how can we talk in the election campaign about the fact that there is too little money in the families, and now we pay tribute to a financial law that gives them even less money?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218135759	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218135800	I am pleased with the change in course that I have to learn from the rapporteur's speech that it is very good that we have ensured that the poorest families of children have a little more to do with while we are waiting for a better lasting solution. Because that must be the consequence of that, sir. Ole Birk Olesen says, that it is really good that the government, SF, Radicals, Alternative and Enhedslisten have made this temporary solution, which we do not think is ambitious enough at all, but which is a small patch on the deep, deep wound that has come and which applies in very many families with children because of the policy that the Liberal Alliance among other things. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218135838	Then it is Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218135842	Thank you. Now the rapporteur started by saying: children, children, children's finance law. That sounds really good. But you can read that the spokesperson of the parent movement • Where is there an adult? ● Says: "It's like asking a child to be grateful for a raisin when he needs a meal. Well, I get hungry both in my stomach and after an answer. Does the rapporteur understand that right now there are some parents out there who are really frustrated that they were promised, that this finance law would already say that there should be an adult for three children in the nursery and an adult for six children in the nursery?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218135927	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218135928	Yes, I understand if someone has contributed to the myth that there should be enough trained staff next year to fulfill it. I'm afraid there isn't. That is why we set aside money to raise the education of educators, who have had the lowest conditions of all welfare education, to a level which corresponds financially to teacher training. That is why we say that we want a law now that makes the money that Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen spoke of before, could not be used for anything else, but could only be used for minimum ratings. We have been very honest about the fact that the number of educators needed to ensure that goal does not exist today. Some of them exist and 0.5 billion will be set. kr. It will take some time already next year if not all new adults in the institutions are to be unskilled, and that is not our aim. That's why it's gonna take a few years. And I hope that statement means that the Left will actually help us with that, contrary to what we have heard in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218140035	Mrs. Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218140036	Now I followed this debate very closely during the election campaign, because I myself am a mother of little children, and I just want to say that there are a lot of parents out there who had the clear impression that the SF, the rapporteur's party, would go to the financial negotiations with the ultimate requirement that already with this budget law it should be one to three and one to six. Have we completely misunderstood the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party and what was said during the election campaign?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218140108	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218140108-2	I simply do not think that the rapporteur and I are talking about the same thing. We are talking about the fact that it was crucial and it was ultimate in getting a law on minimum standards. Have we got it? Yes, and it needs to be translated into details over at the Children's and Education Minister. We said it was ultimate to get an agreement that that law should contain one to three and one to six, which is BUPL's model. It was ultimate, we have received it, and thank you very much to the other parties for participating in it. This brings us to a end for decades, for the under-funding of the children's area by the Left, which has resulted in the morass in which we are now sitting.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218140148	Then it's Mrs. Karina Adsbøl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218140149	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I am a disappointed elder rapporteur. There was not a word about the elderly in the rapporteur's speech. Now, in the election campaign, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr and my chairman, Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, handed hands to each other that one would fight for 1 billion. kr., earmarked extra for the older area. That is to say, beyond the demographic trait. First we could read the understanding paper, and there was little about the elderly area in it. That was very disappointing, and now we can only see a financial law that has not been earmarked for 1 billion. kr. extra to the elderly area. What happened to SF? Is it forgotten? What happened to a handshake? What happened to an agreement that, whatever Prime Minister's candidate who won the election, you would fight for it?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218140245	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218140246	I am very pleased that Mrs Karina Adsbøl mentions that it is money beyond the demographic trait, because I hope that Mrs Karina Adsbøl is aware that the DF has supported a government that has not at any time lived up to the demographic trait and that has not at any time made municipal agreements that actually put on the table the money that it costs to have an elderly care, namely to have proper care for the elderly, which ensures that for every extra elderly who come, the money goes with it. That is the policy that has been followed. Thirteen times more has been given in one year's municipal agreement than was given in an average year in the last four years, when DF has had a major influence • 13 times more. So when you figure out the money for the elderly, we will, and I dare promise you, within four years to keep the promise that we are going to keep, but that DF has not kept; and I know what that follow-up question is, and I will answer that as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218140353	It's coming now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218140354	Yes, the rapporteur will do the same. For the Danish People's Party has fought, every time we have gone into financial law negotiations or into wagering pool negotiations, to have funds earmarked directly for the elderly area. Then the rapporteur stands by and refers to an economic agreement, and there is absolutely no guarantee that any of those funds will go to the area of the elderly because they are not earmarked. This means that it is, of course, about how the municipalities give priority to these matters. And then we can see that the cutting-card system is, after all, being removed from the municipalities. So how will the SF live up to their promise? SF has not lived up to their promise and handshake in relation to the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218140435	Then we will have an answer from the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218140437	Yes, we do. We make policy in a proper way, where the money is set aside where it is to be spent. The care of the elderly is funded in the municipalities. What DF has done corresponds to 6 days in a week giving some crumbs for dinner, and then on Sundays giving the kid a lollipop. These are empty calories and it is simply not a proper way to find funding for an area as important as care for the elderly. Why does Mrs Karina Adsbøl think that care for the elderly has been treated so badly, as the DF has rightly pointed out for many years? It has, because there hasn't been enough money in a single year.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218140513	Then it's Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218140515	I will try to be part of this Gini coefficient again, because I noticed that the rapporteur himself mentioned it when the rapporteur put questions to the Socialist rapporteur. That's why I want to hear how the SF feels about the fact that according to the Gini coefficient, inequality is increasing as a result of this financial bill. Is it satisfactory for the SF that the Gini coefficient shows increasing inequality with the first Finance Act after a red government has arrived? Has the goal of getting a red government been to increase the Gini coefficient?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218140543	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218140544	So, Mrs Louise Schack Elholm must have had the same speech paper as all her colleagues, because that is exactly the same question. I try again: the Gini coefficient is a good tool, but I also think we all agree that there are some blind spots specifically in the area of wealth. What you are counting on here is income, and it is true that what is a negative bonus is the raising of cigarette prices, a measure that I thought the Left was in favour of, because we have a problem with too many children and young people starting with smoking. The measure supported by the Left, namely higher cigarette prices, is what makes a negative contribution to the Gini coefficient. What makes a positive contribution but is not being talked to, because the Ministry of Finance is unable to do so today, is when, for example, we are talking to the Commission. abolish a parent purchase scheme or when we raise the residence and gift tax from 5%. 15%. This is a positive thing, but we cannot count on it today, and that is why it has also been crucial for the SF to get an agreement in the context of the Finance Act... this so-called inequality statement... where the data simply have to be obtained so that we can get a more accurate Gini coefficient.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218140650	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218140651	See, that was an elegant way to talk completely about attacks is the best defense. The rapporteur says that I have some speech papers. The rapporteur is allowed to come down and see all the tax committee documents to which I am reading answers to questions, because we have quite a lot of legislative proposals at the moment. It's not a speech paper I have here, so it's an unfounded accusation. I ask a question about how the SF feels about the Gini coefficient showing increasing inequality, and the rapporteur talks about it and makes all sorts of sea explanations. Could the rapporteur please answer my question?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218140720	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218140720-2	With all due respect, that question was asked in exactly the same way by the rapporteur's colleague; and with all due respect, I have explained why the Gini coefficient is not true. I have never, in all the years when I have also criticised the fact that the Ministry of Finance has not made a particular effort to obtain this knowledge, received the support of the Left from that point of view, because it was probably very well satisfied that there were some figures that actually masked how bad the inequality was, especially under the Left Government.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218140751	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218140752	Thank you. The rapporteur mentioned that it was a red and green Finance Act, and we in the Enhedslist agree that we look forward to making the next seven years of finance laws with the same majority. And I mention 7 years because we have a rotation principle in the Enhedslisten, so you can't be here forever. After all, the Enhedslisten would have liked to see an even greener Finance Act, where there had been even more precise and clear CO2 Now it has just come to light that during the budget negotiations there have been some discussions about whether some more flex funds could be used in 2021 in order to increase efforts to reduce CO2 We are faced with the fact that we can actually move around on some agricultural subsidies this week. So I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the SF is prepared to help agriculture and help the government so that an increased effort can be agreed which complements the good deeds of taking low-level areas into the budget with an effort on agricultural subsidies. Is that something the SF is ready for?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218140900	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218140901	Uh, I'd like to give a good answer to sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. So I think it is a little more a rapporteur's question, but it is quite true that the issue of modulation and the figures relating to CO2 has been turned around in the financial law negotiations. For it is of course important to have some true figures for the climate impact of agriculture, but also to have the right figures in terms of how we can use the funds available. I can only say that and I am sorry that it has become so general an answer that our rapporteur, who sits a few rows behind Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, then sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen can have a discussion with her afterwards, will struggle with beaks and claws for us to convert Danish agriculture into a more sustainable agriculture. And it is not a sustainable agriculture with that false name, a certain organisation, but a genuinely sustainable agriculture, where we can also have a Danish agriculture in the future that does not make any sense at all in the way we see today.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218141006	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218141007	Well, it is reasonable enough in a budget debate to focus on problems that have not been resolved sufficiently, and that is where I think we owe it to ourselves to look at what can be done between the financial laws being made. Because that was what went wrong during Thorning's administration, namely that some wrong reforms were made between those financial laws that were sometimes okay. So I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether we cannot have a common starting point, when the understanding paper with the government says that agricultural aid must be used actively as a tool to give farmers incentives to switch to more sustainable production and thus support the green conversion of the industry. After all, it is not only a question of what is in the Finance Act, but also of what is in the understanding paper with the government and remembering it and complying with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218141047	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218141047-2	I do not believe and hope that there is a difference between what SF and Enhedslisten want in this area. We want what is called modulation to be done as we can within the framework that is and would also like to fight to break that framework and change it. Some of this has to be done at EU level, but there are some opportunities already today to move from pillar 1 to pillar 2. I can't imagine that we in the SF shouldn't be willing to do that in the same way as I know that Enhedslisten will.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218141123	Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218141126	We have been given a poverty finance law for 2020. It is quite clear from the debate we have had, however much Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen tries to avoid a methodological debate. But that is not what I want to say. We have also been given a special financial law. That is what a former Minister of Finance says, and I respect it very much: Bjarne Corydon. No wonder, for the SF is about something a mouthpiece for special interests. It is widely known that you can send your demands to SF, and then they will be read aloud from the Parliament's platform, as we just heard about BUPL before. But when you promote special interests, the public suffers. It is the public who are trampled down by promoting special interests. What are the measures in this Finance Act for the benefit of the general public? If you hire a lot of educators who use their time incorrectly, the new educators are not going to spend the time properly. They are also going to use time incorrectly, and the public has no benefit from it. The members of BUPL benefit from this. So where are the measures that benefit the public in this Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218141230	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218141231	It is true that the SF is fighting for special interests whose particular interests are the interests of children or the interests of schoolchildren or the interests of nature and animals. It is also true that we are fighting against certain special interests, namely lobbying networks of rich companies that want a particularly low inheritance tax, or special interests of banks that fight with their beaks and claws against us, for example. will have a ceiling on quick loan op etc. And that's the way it's supposed to be. I also know that the Liberal Alliance is fighting for a great many special interests. It's often exactly the opposite of SF's, and so it has to be. It's fine. Nevertheless, I would say that children, as a general concept, belong to the general public. And I really hope so too, sir. Henrik Dahl means.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218141335	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218141336	It is a pity that you cannot win a Danish championship by talking around, because then Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen would really be a strong candidate for that title by talking about my party and by talking about everything else that I have not asked about. What interest do ordinary families and ordinary children have in employing more educators who spend half their time on unnecessary bureaucracy? What interest do ordinary schoolchildren have in employing more teachers in a school that underpriests in many ways? And what does the SF intend to do for ordinary children to promote their interests?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218141411	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218141412	We know that what ordinary children need most is adults who have time for them. It is time to talk to them, to comfort them, to be there, so that they are not just stored in some corner in a day care center. That is what children need most. That leaves too much bureaucracy in the public sector. For example, the Liberal Alliance had... a minister for the elderly who enjoyed incredibly great respect in the public domain, but was one proposal made for debureaucratisation? No. If the Liberal Alliance wants to fight that fight again, we'd love to do it with you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218141450	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218141451	Thank you. Then I can go on a little further, Mr President. Henrik Dahl. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen says that it is very important that adults who have time for children are recruited. To this extent, it is difficult to disagree. However, the Finance Act, which the rapporteur calls the Children's Finance Act, has completely ignored 35%. of the children, which is a fairly large proportion, namely those who attend day care. It's just that day care usually goes there with five children, that is, you have a 5. So I do not want to admit that this is the children's financial law, nor does it have anything to do with the interests of the general good. So why has one completely ignored a professional group as completely as is the case with this financial law?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218141531	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218141532	It is true that the minimum standards model, the one called 1 to 3 and 1 to 6, covers nursery and nursery children and not day care. We very much hope that DF may help us find some funding proposals to lift that area. That area has not been lifted, even when DF stood and was a decisive support party. But the big difference is that day care providers have actually had some kind of reverse minimum standards or a ceiling of the 5. In fact, there has been a ceiling. We have said there that it is important that there are not too many children per year. day care provider. I hope that Mrs Pernille Bendixen will agree with that. And when we went out and said we wanted minimum ratings, we were called fantasies, and at least there was no support from DF. So I hope this is a new course, where DF also thinks that there should be both minimum standards and a ceiling on how many children there should be in the day institutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218141636	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218141637	I simply have to correct the rapporteur. It is a vertical lie to say that DF has not contributed to day care. It was only because of the Danish People's Party that money was set aside for education in day care. It was historic. The FOA couldn't get their arms down, they had never experienced anything like it. As far as minimum standards are concerned, that is the only way to do so, and I am in complete agreement with Mr. Henrik Dahl says you have to put the money in where it makes sense, and so it doesn't make sense to send more money to an area if the money doesn't work properly, so to speak. So if the educator just has to do more paperwork, then the children will certainly not benefit from it. There I just had to correct the rapporteur. Will the municipalities be dut'ed for the extra free places that come in connection with the arrival of more immigrants? Because that money is not included in the minimum standards. The municipalities must find them themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218141717	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218141718	I simply do not think that Mrs Pernille Bendixen really heard what I said. I said that we have received no support from DF in relation to minimum standards. And the comment that Mrs Pernille Bendixen is making now simply underlines that it is not something that DF considers important. I acknowledge what DF has done in relation to day care. We felt it was necessary to do so with both legislative measures and with money for the day-care institutions, but we would also very much like to have that ceiling on day-care, i.e. from 5 to 4. We would really like to find that money in next year's Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218141752	Then it's mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218141755	Thank you. It is actually a follow-up to Pernille Bendixen's question. Is it true that 35% has been completely forgotten? Of the smallest kids who go to day care in this finance bill? It's also very geographically scattered how this money is then given. It is true that in some municipalities almost all the smallest children go to day care instead of crèche. Is it true that there is not a single crown set aside for these municipalities, where you have virtually only day care, and for all these children there are perhaps 3 or 3,1 or 3,2 day care teachers per year in very many municipalities. children, whereas in some other municipalities there are as much as 4.4 children per year. day care, then, that you completely neglect this group and then give all the money to the crèches? It's kind of an "A" and a "B" team. Is it true that there's no money for this group?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218141845	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218141846	I simply do not want to answer exactly the same question to which I have just replied. It just gets too stupid and too degrading for this Parliament. The rapporteur needs to ask a different question from that which has just been asked and which I have just answered.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218141903	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218141906	I will take that as a confirmation that all this money is intended to be earmarked for day nurseries and day care centres. This means that the municipalities where virtually all children attend day care can look forward to 0 DKK. to improve in relation to the smallest children in their municipalities. I think that is very, very wrong and a very, very skewed model, and I think that is really important for a larger part of the population to be told, because I think it is a huge failure to our rural areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218141932	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218141933	After all, the rapporteur referred to something which is interesting and which I have not been asked about, namely the financing of the children's area. Because I have answered that the minimum standards model applies to day care institutions, but the child's area in general is of course given a boost. Contrary to the previous bourgeois government, this is being lifted not only with the demographic trait but more than the demographic trait. This means that when more children arrive, whether in day nurseries or day care, more money actually comes with, which did not do under the bourgeois government. So there'll be more money.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218142011	Then we'll get to the last one in this round, and that's sir. Tommy Ahlers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218142014	Thank you to the rapporteur. I have a question about equality. It is in relation to what the rapporteur said in his speech that the reason why we triple the tax on generational change is that company heirs must be equal to other types of heirs. But it's not the same kind of property you inherit. If I inherit $10 million. kr. or inherits an undertaking with a value of 10 million. kr., then it is significantly different for me as heir. Because if I want to spend the 10 million... kr. on a house, I can go out and use them and pay 15%. in tax, whereas I first have to pay the dividend tax of the 10 million. kr., I inherit in a company to get them out if I want to use them the same way. So we're dealing with two property that makes the heir very different. Then why is it you use those 15 percent?? Well, why do you look at that percentage and say it has to be straight to be able to put those two straight? Isn't that a crazy way to do it?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218142109	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218142110	If it's a crazy way, the wise men are crazy about the financial wise men. And although they have been sent far away, I do not think that is what the rapporteur thinks about the economic wise men. They are not so much about justice and fairness, but they say that from an economic point of view we are leaning towards it, too, it is the most sensible thing simply to have harmonisation, to tax inheritance in the same way with the same percentage. And that's why in their reports they have spoken against making an artificially low living and gift tax if it was a company you inherited, unlike if you inherited a house, or if it was just Mr. and Mrs Jensen, who inherited some values from their parents. They said that the bias is simply not socio-economically very clever. I think that is what they said. On top of that, we say that we do not think it is fair either, but that is the political view.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218142213	Sir. Tommy Ahlers, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218142214	But now the economic wise men do not say that it should be increased to 15%. They're just saying it has to be straight. And that is why it is probably a fair question to ask: is 15%? Did you see a straight darling? Well, it's not, because if you take different math samples, it should probably be 8.7 per cent if you try to equate these two assets. Maybe it should be a little taller, but not those 15 percent. What is the rapporteur thinking about this? Why have they hit 15%??
ParlaMint-DK_20191218142237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218142238	We simply disagree. Because we will have to have the same percentage unless we have to go in and look at every asset or property that you might inherit and ask: is it a car? Is that a house? Is it a company? Well, because the different elements, the different assets, Mr. Tommy Ahlers is different in nature, but to get the most equal treatment of it you have the same percentage and the same treatment of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218142310	Thank you. In fact, by keeping to the time allowed by the rapporteur, this means that we can reach the last person who has asked for the floor, and that is Mr Seligman. Dennis Flydtkjær. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218142318	Thank you. I didn't think I could make it. I want to ask you something else. In the Finance Act there is a threefold increase in the one-off service charge, which means, among other things, that there is a threefold increase in the tax on a sausage tray, but the quirky thing is that if the sausage tray is over 33 cm long, it is no longer a tray, but a dish, and then there is no one-off service charge. Similarly, there is no tax on the wrapping of a burger, which is also just waste and is used once and then thrown out. So I would just like to ask the SF's rapporteur whether it makes sense to triple the levy on a sausage tray now, but if it is over 33 cm long, there is no tax on it. One could imagine that you get ordinary sizes of sausage with huge hills when you come down to the sausage man, and it seems a little wrong that you now fund your Finance Act with such a proposal. Can't the SF agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218142411	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218142412	After all, I've had the exquisite pleasure of being a colleague of mr. Dennis Flydtkjær for a number of years in the field of taxation, and sometimes one cannot help but smile over some of the definition problems that arise in the field of taxation. This also applies to nuts with or without shell, almonds etc. You have to make boundaries, and there are many definition problems, and there are also some that you can pull off on the smile band. What is one-time service e.g.? Is that something that you have to define as a glass, a plate, or whatever it may be? So there are those boundary problems, and you have to define it somewhere, not to say that it's everything you can now use to serve something on. So it is such a classic problem of demarcation that, when you hear it, you can pull off the smile tape, but you also have to have some fairly clear rules, for example. In terms of size.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218142516	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218142518	I agree that the rules should be clear. But for example... is a stickweb without a one-off service fee, just as a straw is free of charge, but now there is a triple tax on a stick for a drink that can be used to stir around in a drink. What is the logic of that? An ice cream that you hold on to using a stick does not have a charge on the stick, but you get the exact same amount of ice in a cup that you then eat with the same wooden stick, there must now be a tripling of the levy on the stick. It's the SF's bill that makes this huge difference all of a sudden. Does it make sense for SF to have such a biased charge?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218142555	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218142557	It is a bit much to accuse the SF of the many, many problems that exist in the field of taxation, with definitions and with boundaries, and I hope the rapporteur agrees with me that this is a general problem that ministers and rapporteurs across parties are constantly boxing. Because if you're not exactly and thus sometimes run into these a little funny examples, there's no legal certainty, because what do you have to relate to, for example. company? 'Cause then you're gonna have to slap your way up to it. So, when we're gonna get this legalized, I hope that DF has some good suggestions on how to solve it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218142634	Then we thank Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Time's up. Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218142649	After all, in the June parliamentary elections it was not spin doctors and politicians who set the agenda for once. It was the demand of parents and grandparents for more adults in kindergartens that filled, and it was climate-concerned citizens and especially many young people who made the green transition a key theme in the elections. When you look at the 2020 Finance Act, you have to say that it is a very good financial law. It must also be said that it would have looked different if 90 mandates from the Enhedslisten had made it. So, for example, we had... closed several tax holes. We had taxed share and capital income more fairly than is the case today. We had made other moves. And the money would then have been used to strengthen welfare and the green transition even more and even more to combat inequality. But it is a really, really good financial law, a good first step, and one can clearly see that Enhedslisten has been involved in negotiating the Finance Act. This is actually the best financial law for many years, and on the part of the Enhedslisten we are proud of the financial law we have agreed with the other parties, and we would like to thank you for the good cooperation we have had, both with the Social Democracy, the Government, the SF, Radicals and the Alternative. We have all contributed, in our own way, to the success of a good financial law. In terms of welfare, we have the best financial law for 10 years, and we have a financial law that is historically green. The Finance Act is thus also a clear example of how, although it is to have got rid of the bourgeois government, how, although it is that we have a majority in the Folketing, which can now set a different and positive direction for Denmark. The Enhedslisten went to the negotiations with demands that this Finance Act should send the bill to the top and not to those who have the least that we should give the welfare a boost that can be felt, and make a Finance Act that can be measured in the climate accounts, and has succeeded. We have been given the first financial law for many years, which reduces inequality, while strengthening welfare and taking the first steps towards reducing greenhouse gases by 70%. There are things we haven't got through with this financial law that we have to keep fighting for. For example: It is still the case that foreigners are being punished today for taking an education when education does not count on earning a permanent residence permit. Today, the rules are such that you must have had regular full-time work for 31⁄2 years out of the last 4 years in order to be able to obtain permanent residence permits. Before 2016, the time spent training also counted. Therefore, the current rules adopted at the beginning of 2016 mean that foreigners who want to train for educators, engineers or masons end up taking unskilled jobs for the sole reason that training does not count when applying for permanent residence. As a society, we have a clear interest in the people who are in our country getting the best conditions to contribute to our society, and therefore it is also quite crazy that young people who are likely to be in Denmark for many years or their whole lives are not rewarded but punished for taking an education. It is completely hollow in our minds and we, as a society, cannot live with it, and we can guarantee on the part of the Enhedslisten that there will be no tranquillity in this area or in other areas which are concerned with pursuing a policy based on common sense in foreign policy. At the same time, there are also a great many improvements that we are proud of. Some of us, together with other parties, have been able to get through this with the entire Finance Act, but other results have to be said to bear the special fingerprints of the Enhedslisten, or at least that is something that we have been particularly concerned about in the negotiations. I would like to mention three examples of this. One of our key demands, from the first time we entered the negotiating room, was to give the psychiatry an acute boost as early as 2020. Over the years, psychiatry has been forgotten and neglected over and over again. With this Finance Act, we're doing something about it and we've got $600 million set aside. kr. annual to an acute lifting of the area, which will ensure more beds, higher quality of treatment and a reinforced emergency response. Not all problems will be solved, but we are giving psychiatry a tremendous boost here and now, so that the work for a better psychiatry can continue, including in the spring, where we can negotiate a 10-year action plan in this area. The second is that we have got Denmark's Green Investment Fund a lot more money to borrow for green investments. The investment fund, which Enhedslisten was established at the time under a Finance Act under the Thorning-Schmidt government, borrows, among other things. money out for investments in energy renovations and other projects that help reduce our CO2 The strengthening of the Danish Green Investment Fund accounts for about one third of total CO2 At the same time, we have of course also fought hard to strengthen the Climate Council and demand money to buy torn-out agricultural land and transform it into forest and nature, and it has also been included in the Finance Act. Of course, we are far from achieving climate change objectives, and that is why the forthcoming climate action plans, which will have to be drawn up in accordance with the Climate Act, will be very important to us. The third point I would like to mention is that, with the 2020 Finance Act, we will have an historic effort to combat social dumping. We have among other things. got 50 million. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the Commission has not been able to take any action on this matter. We have introduced requirements for identity cards on public construction sites and for a national unit to control the State's work clauses so that companies that pay their employees can be discovered and we have also succeeded in removing the residence requirement from the daily allowance, which undermines the right to benefit and damages pay and working conditions. In addition to the three things, the Finance Act contains a number of other good measures, in which we also have a large share. This is not least a boost to the children's area, which will mean several thousand adults to care for children in the country's day care institutions. This applies to an increase in primary school, support for people with disabilities in their own homes, an end to cuts in education, more help for those who have spent many years on cash benefits, and much more. Because we get, for example. 500 million kr. in 2020 to adults in kindergartens and crèches and thus a first step towards minimum standards. However, we are not going to get minimum standards with this Finance Act so the fight for minimum standards continues, but the promise is great, and we can be proud of that. There will be more money for primary school, almost 500 million. kr. in 2020, which could also contribute to solving the teachers' working time problem, and we are also doing many other good things in the field of education. Among other things: We also say bye bye-bye and thank you for the re-priority contribution in both education and culture. Even in the field of foreigners, we have also received little, although it has to be said that it has been under massive opposition from the government. However, we have, after all, had a fee removed on Danish education, and it is also agreed in connection with the finance negotiations that the children will come out of Soulsmark. It is also a green financial law where we set aside money for set-aside, afforestation, cycle paths, electric buses and public transport, and then there is equal support in our own homes for people with disabilities, so that no one is forced to leave home and in the institution just because you have been 18 years old when the aid ends today. It's just to mention some of the many things that are in the Finance Act. Then, of course, we also have a financial law that reduces inequality, and we are raising the welfare of the broad groups in society and doing something for the most vulnerable, and we are sending the bill to those who have the most. We send the bill to, among other things. shareholders and billionaire heirs to family-owned companies by closing tax holes and so on to owners of private jet aircraft. Then in some places there has been a discussion that the Ministry of Finance has calculated the so-called Gini coefficient on the sub-elements of the Finance Act, and the calculation of the individual sub-elements included in the calculation is, of course, correct where it is possible to make a calculation. But there are a number of equality-building measures, including: due to lack of data is not possible for the Ministry of Finance to make a calculation. Therefore, no calculation of the inequality measured by the Gini coefficient has been made on the whole budget law, but only on sub-elements. For example: It is not possible to calculate the equity effect of rolling back the tax relief for the heirs of family-owned companies, even though, according to the Ministry of Finance, most of the income is estimated to come from persons in the upper part of the distribution of income. Yes, it can be said that it is not possible to make calculations in relation to the abolition of parental purchases in the enterprise scheme, the closure of tax gaps in relation to shareholders or the closure of the tax gap for leased cars, nor is it actually possible for the Ministry of Finance to make a comprehensive calculation of the increase in equity that will result from an increase in public consumption. Therefore, when you look at the Finance Act, there is no doubt that it is a Finance Act that is drawing Denmark in the right direction and that reduces inequality, and it is a Finance Act that we see as a good first step. We have a Finance Act that delivers the goods. It sets in motion an historically great green transition, it is a first step to date, and then, for the first time in decades, we must increase equality and strengthen prosperity. So it is a first small step in the battle for a policy of reduction, deterioration and increasing inequality, and thus a good start for the coming years. We therefore welcome the fact that we have a good financial law and we are also very much looking forward to the hope that in the coming years we will be negotiating even more financial laws.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218143700	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. We shall now proceed to the questions, and the first person to speak is Mr Beazley. Troels Lund Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218143707	Thanks for the speech. It was actually a rather exciting explanation for the Gini coefficient, so why you can't really say that what the Ministry of Finance has answered is quite right when you look at the overall financial law. But is Mr. Rune Lund then able to say whether the Gini coefficient is rising or falling? This must have been considered in the Enhedslisten, because the answer given by the Ministry of Finance is basically not recognised. These are a bit of double standards, because once Enhedslisten has been in opposition and so they are still in the Enhedslisten, or at least they have been strongly against the government, they have relied on it as a basis for which they have been calculated in the Ministry of Finance. Now I can understand that this method of calculation will, after all, have to have a slightly different respect for, given that it is the government that gives the answers to the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218143758	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218143759	In fact, I'm particularly glad that it's Mr. Knox. Troels Lund Poulsen, who starts with that question, because we also had the debate at first reading of the draft budget, where it was clear that Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen had read an article from the left-wing web media called Solidarity.dk, where I post the Enhedslisten's position on the Gini coefficient. I think, sir. Troels Lund Poulsen read the entire article prior to first reading. What I say in that article, which is what to say, is the truth about the Gini coefficient, is that the Gini coefficient is the central measure of inequality, but that you just cannot calculate everything with the Gini coefficient. When you have a financial law where Gini coefficients can only be made on elements and where there are obviously equality-building measures that are not calculated, and when the whole effect of increasing equality is not calculated at all, that we invest so heavily in increased welfare, both in psychiatry, primary school, day care centres and women's crisis centres and in many other areas, you just have to say what it is, namely that it is not a comprehensive calculation. That is why, in the end, it will always be a political assessment whether or not the Finance Act is going in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218143907	Thank you. Sir. Troels Lund Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218143907-2	I think that, in many ways, is a nicely honest approach, i.e. that it is Mr. Rune Lund or Enhedslisten, who, like their gut feeling, evaluates whether this is the right direction for the Gini coefficient to go in. Does it mean, if you have to look back historically on it, including on previous governments, both blue and red, that with Enhedslisten's new approach to Ginicoefficient calculations, you also have to have a more nuanced approach to it, so that all different parties, like themselves, can assess how you think the Finance Act signed in 2012 or 2014 or 2017 was?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218143945	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218143946	Well, we don't have a new approach. After all, the Gini coefficient calculations made in the Ministry of Finance are correct in terms of the sub-elements on which it has been possible to make a calculation. But it's just that there's not a Gini coefficient calculation on the whole budget bill. Now, sir. Troels Lund Poulsen does not have the floor again, but Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen must also admit that it is true when it is said that a Gini coefficient calculation has not been made on the whole budget law. A Gini coefficient calculation has been made on sub-elements of the Finance Act, and the Gini coefficient is an important goal, for it is the central measure of inequality, but even the central measure of inequality, which is the most useful to use, cannot catch everything. This was exactly the discussion we had at first reading, as was the case with Mr Tugendhat. Troels Lund Poulsen also read the article before Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen asked me the first time.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218144026	Thank you. Then it's mr. René Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218144029	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I understand perfectly well that the Enhedslisten is pleased with the Finance Act as it stands. It is also the case to be a support party, because in that role you can also get something through and congratulate it. As the previous questioner from the Left also mentioned, I would also like to address the issue of inequality. This is something that usually means a lot to Enhedslisten, namely that you should not create inequality. It was also the case that, before the elections, it was said that we would vote in favour of what reduces inequality and we would vote against what increases inequality. Then the rapporteur gives a very good example: the triple inheritance tax on family-owned businesses, and that is right when you say that you cannot count on it, because it will actually be a zero sum game. That's how you figure it out. Why does it do that? That is enough because it is not just about two large companies, Lego and Grundfos, this is about about 400 companies being transferred over every year. Former rapporteurs have said that it is some of the richest in Denmark who own these companies, but you cannot say that because when you get the answer from the Ministry of Finance, you see that it is also an expression of the fact that these companies are very different. Some are very large, while others are one-man companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218144139	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218144140	That, sir. René Christensen says he's not right. The reason why no Gini calculation has been made on it is that it has not been possible. This is because there is simply no data that makes it possible to calculate it. However, it is obvious to everyone that the tax relief that the Danish People's Party helped to give in this area is wasteful, among other things. because it also benefits billionaire heirs for family-owned businesses. That is also what the Minister of Finance must write with text, namely that this is about people who are at the top of the income scale and who have benefited from the tax relief that the Danish People's Party has done. It is, moreover, a tax relief which has been repeatedly criticised by economic wise men and which I think is a poor use of society's money, because it is not productive and creates less productivity, that tax dollars are used in a way that is ineffective than using tax dollars in a way that is reasonable. So it is crooked, it makes no sense, and we are proud to have that tax relief removed in order to spend the money on, for example. to strengthen psychiatry and the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218144245	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen. Rune Lund It's actually René again. ) Sorry. Sir. René Christensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218144252	Thank you. It's so liberating to hear what it's all about here. It is, of course, a matter of going after businessmen and, although it is a small one-man business, of course you also go after them. The liberating thing about Enhedslisten is that you say what you mean, and you do what you say, and that's also what you've got through here. One might then wonder why the Social Democratic Party has agreed to this. That's the part of it. Can the rapporteur not also recognise that when you look at the places where it becomes a driving force for the citizens, it is actually at the bottom? Cigarettes, for example, increase significantly, and then you can prove that it is the group of citizens who have the lowest incomes that are affected. When you can show that a crèche rises by DKK 3,700. Every year, it is the families of children who are affected, and the families of children are not the richest in Denmark, are they?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218144338	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218144339	Compared with the rising taxes on cigarettes, and that is where it has been possible to make a Gini calculation on it, it has to be said that in isolation it increases inequality. I don't think there's any reason to ignore that. It will. There will be people who, when taxes rise, will not smoke any less for that reason, and they will then be affected. There will be people who will be hit. What is important, then, is that, if we are to prevent young people from starting to smoke, these taxes must be raised, and that will also create more equality in the long term. For who is the one who smokes the most among the young today? They're the ones who're having a hard time. It is also the young people in vocational training. So if, in the long term, we want to create more equality and also more equality in health, it is just a really important grip to raise taxes along with other preventive measures.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218144427	Then it was Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218144431	Thank you. Sir. Rune Lund, we have probably made the greenest Finance Act ever, and I am very pleased about that, but we both know that it could have been greener for several reasons. We could have introduced an airline tax and spent the money on converting the aviation sector and planting forest. We could also have decided to make further parts of agricultural aid green. Hopefully we can still do that. But to the first thing, the airport charge, as Mr. Rune Lund knows I am really concerned about: Now we have to make a climate action plan. Will the Enhedslisten help to introduce an air toll so that we can switch the aviation industry, the aviation sector, and reduce CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20191218144521	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218144522	We want an air tax, and that is why it is also part of the climate plan that we presented in February this year, where we will solve three things at once: we will show how we can actually achieve 70% by means of concrete measures. reduction of climate gases by 2030; we finance it; and we fund it in a socially fair way. It's the password for us that all three things have to be solved at the same time. We want this because we believe that it is politically the only feasible and reasonable thing, but also because we do not have a green switch if the bill is sent to those who have the least. And in relation to air fares, it is also important for us not only to raise the air fares so that the director and all those who have enough money can just keep flying while ordinary people can never afford to go on a vacation anymore. That is why it is important for us to have the proceeds returned. So we propose that when you introduce an airline tax, you bring back the proceeds from the green cheque. The aim must be to compensate those who have small, low incomes, because that is fair and because, if we do not ensure that the bill is not sent to those who have the least, we will never, in reality, have the green transition that we are fighting for.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218144633	Thank you. Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218144634	But is Mr. Rune Lund does not agree that if you take back all the proceeds, even if all the calculations show that those that will hit the hardest are the ones at the top of the income scale, because they are the ones that fly the most, that is, if you redistribute all the proceeds, you will not get any green conversion out of an air tax? Then you cannot switch, because then you cannot use the money to convert the aviation industry into more green fuels, and you cannot use the money to raise forests and reduce CO2 This means that you will not get any green conversion out of an air transport tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218144711	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218144712	It is true that we cannot spend the money in two places at once. But I also think that this is where there is a significant difference between how Radicals and Enhedslisten think about the green transition. Because green politics is not just green politics. Green policy can be pursued by increasing inequality, or it can be pursued by reducing inequality, or at least keeping the evolution of inequality neutral. There we have to say that it is important for us to increase equality, and we really do not regard it as a bad thing if we overcompensate people with small, low incomes, as it were. That would, of course, increase equality in society, reduce inequality, and we really regard that as positive. And then, in our climate plan, we have identified many sources of funding for how we can secure 70%. If the rise in haemoglobin is greater than 2 g/ dl (7.5 mmol/ l) in four weeks reduce the dose by approximately 25%.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218144754	The next brief remark is to Mr. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218144758	The Enhedslisten has been criticizing for many years when there has been an increase in inequality measured by the Gini coefficient, and before the conclusion of this Finance Act, Enhedslisten was crystal clear in the spit: Enhedslisten would not enter into a finance agreement that increased inequality. Now a financial agreement has been concluded that increases inequality. The Gini coefficient strikes out, so there's more inequality. And the measure used to measure the inequality is the Gini coefficient. So says Mr. Rune Lund here from the platform is that it's because this finance law can't convert all the effects of the Finance Act into a Gini coefficient. Has there ever been a Finance Act which has been able to include all the elements of the Gini coefficient? Is it something unique to this Finance Act, or has it always been the case that there have probably been some elements that could not be immediately translated into a Gini coefficient?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218144857	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218144858	I think I will ask questions the other way. Rasmus Jarlov really that the previous government has pursued a policy that has reduced inequality? Mr. Rasmus Jarlov really that the calculation that lies from the Ministry of Finance is a calculation of the Gini coefficient, which is made on the whole Finance Act? I have just answered the same question, and now I think that Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, when that question is asked again, should be able to answer the two questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218144928	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218144929	I think sir... Rune Lund has a little misunderstood how this is going on here in the Assembly Hall. I am the one who questions the person on the platform, not the other way around. It is possible to put questions to me later when I go to the platform or the President will have to lecture Mr. Rune Lund on how things work. I ask again: is it something unique for this Finance Act that you cannot immediately include all the things that are adopted in the Finance Act in the calculation of the effect on the Gini coefficient, or has it also been so in the other Finance Laws where Enhedslisten has criticised that there has been an increasing inequality measured on the Gini coefficient?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218145005	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218145008	That is a brief comment. I'm not a minister. We have not reached the point where Enhedslisten has come into government and participates in the Wednesday Question Time. So that is a brief comment and we have a discussion here. It is true, however, that I cannot think of a financial law which has been able to calculate the Gini coefficient on everything. But everyone can see that the policy pursued in the Finance Laws 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019 has been a policy that has increased inequality in Denmark. There can be no doubt about that. I really don't think so either. Rasmus Jarlov disagrees.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218145042	Thank you for that, and the next one for a brief comment is Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218145049	Thank you. I have two questions and I hope we can reach them. One goes on the role of teachers and how Enhedslisten will guarantee that the funds that have been set aside will actually also go to more teachers in primary school and how many teachers you expect will come. The second relates to minimum standards. The municipalities are being set off for this, but there is an increase in parental pay, and the municipalities have been out to say: well, we're going to raise this parental fee. And it's actually quite significant. So, in municipalities that do not have a very high level of income, for example. Brønderslev or anything else, it can be up to 10,000-11,000-12,000 DKK, which a child family has to pay extra to have their children cared for. And will Enhedslisten compensate these families of children for the extra cost that the municipalities are now saying they are going to put on them? And it's up to a level that can really, really hurt some families with children if they're going to find that money. And that does not mean that they do not want better care for children. But the money has to come out of their pockets, and they have to be there to pay it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218145143	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218145144	The money must go to more teachers and, moreover, we must also look to an improvement for teachers in terms of better preparation. How this is to be decided in concrete terms by the Minister for Children and Education. There will be some negotiations in the new year when it needs to be defined more precisely. But so, the goal is clear: more teachers. In relation to parental pay for minimum standards, I have to give Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen is right. For what is being said here is also why we have our model of minimum standards on the part of the Enhedslisten, which will cost 3.2 billion. kr. full phase-in per year. If it really is to be the case that there is a one-three-one-six model in each institution all day, and there is no fiddle-dick about the fact that temporary workers count doubles and managers count, then it costs fully phased-in 3.2 billion. kr. a year. But if you have to compensate for the increase in parental pay, it costs 800 million. kr. extra. So, as far as we are concerned, minimum standards cost 4 billion. kr. That is why we say that the 1.6 billion are fully phased in each year. kr., which is being set aside in this Finance Act, is a nice boost, but it's not minimum standards.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218145255	Thank you. Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218145256	I would then like to ask whether at some point it will be a demand from the Enhedslisten. Because otherwise we're in a situation where these parents have to have money out of their pockets, and that could be up to $1,000. and 1,500 kroner. a month for children's families in low-income municipalities, and that can really push a budget, can't it? So I would like to hear: is this a requirement that the Enhedslisten will make it fully funded in the future if we are to be able to continue to support these minimum standards? Otherwise, it may well be a boost in kindergartens, but it will be at the expense of some families with children who have to pay for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218145331	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218145332	It is quite true that it is part of our minimum standards model, and that is why it is also a requirement. I mean, that's something we go to the negotiations with. We do not make ultimate demands, we do not have 90 mandates. We will fight for our views. But it is quite true that if you do not compensate parents for the increase in parental pay, you just put such a flat tax all over the place on children's parents. And we disagree with that. So our approach is that parents should also be compensated. That's why it's part of our game. That's the way we think about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218145359	Thank you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218145403	During the last parliamentary term, Enhedslisten was very active in a debate on poverty, where it was claimed that many families in Denmark were so poor that they could not afford leisure activities for their children, to participate in children's birthdays, to get clothes, etc. Their disposable income was simply too low to afford these things. Now we hear from the Ministry of Finance that the disposable income in the groups is 10%. The poorest in Denmark, the 10%. the second poorest in Denmark, etc. So there is even less money to go to leisure activities, to clothes and to children's birthdays. How can Mr. Rune Lund praises the Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218145457	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218145459	I very much appreciate the focus on inequality, as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen has presented us with the debate on finance law today. That, sir. Ole Birk Olesen says is factually correct, and you just have to be honest about that. What is also the reason for this is the increase in the excise duty on cigarettes, which is also part of the Finance Act and which we think is a right move. It is true that for some groups it will hurt the wallet if you do not start smoking less, but we must also say that if we want young people to quit smoking, taxes will have to rise. As I mentioned earlier, some of the young people who smoke the most today are vulnerable young people and young people in vocational training, and if we can get some of these young people to stop smoking, it will also have positive effects in the longer term. In addition, we must also bear in mind that the Finance Act also allocates money to smoking cessation courses for socially vulnerable people, and, moreover, an agreement has just been reached in the area of cigarettes on further preventive measures, which we can be proud of. So the tax should be seen as part of a major political package in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218145615	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218145616	But I fully understand that there may be such dilemmas in Danish politics, and I agree that there is also a dilemma here for people who have the same view as Mr. Rune Lund. But when we look back at the parliamentary term that has passed, Mr. Rune Lund saw that it was clear that Enhedslisten thought it was more important to do something about the number of smokers in Denmark than to do something about the poverty of families with children in Denmark? For Enhedslisten has made a trade-off here and said: We can make the families poorer, which we claim to be too poor to be able to participate in leisure activities and buy clothes; we can do that; they can get even poorer if we can do something about how many young people start smoking in return. Because that's what you do now.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218145701	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218145702	This is a misleading interpretation, as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen is coming with us. We have made a financial law here which increases equality, which reduces inequality, which strengthens welfare and strengthens the green transition. It is true, then, that, in isolation, one of the elements is about increasing taxes on cigarettes, which increases inequality, but it must be borne in mind that it is in the short term. In the longer term, less cigarette consumption, including among vulnerable young people, will lead to an increase in equality, not least an increase in equality in health, i.e. a reduction in inequality in health. This means that we cannot just discuss this problem on the basis of what is happening right now. It must also be seen as a development in which we are moving towards fewer young people starting to smoke, and it will have very positive social effects.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218145748	The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218145751	Can I start by congratulating the rapporteur on an excellently nuanced and in-depth response when it comes to inequality and the Gini coefficient? I really think that the rapporteur is hitting the spot on, and I would just like to ask the rapporteur to be just as nuanced when it is the blue parties that enter into financial legislation, because, as you know, we are all equal, but in the world of Enhedslisten there may be some who are more equal than others. My question to the rapporteur is about business structure. The rapporteur used a large part of his speech to welcome the fact that fire taxes are now being levied on family-owned businesses. Therefore, I would really like to ask the rapporteur a slightly open question: what basic business structure does Enhedslisten prefer in Denmark? A business structure where we have a lot of family-owned companies, or a business structure where we have a lot of capital-owned companies?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218145848	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218145849	And there's no other option than that? Laughter Well, the blue parties increased the inequality. Denmark has become more skewed by what has happened in 2016, 2017 and 2018 and 2019. We want to support an industry where jobs are being created. We do, among other things. by investing massively in education, removing the education ceiling and removing the re-priority contribution to education, and we are also doing so with the 25 billion. kr. will be made available for the green conversion with the foundation constructions that come on the field here. It is also money that will hold hands and create thousands of jobs; it has not been possible to measure exactly how many. Anyway, there's no doubt that there's plenty for business in this finance law too. In relation to which business structure we have a particular focus, it is after all the democratic companies where we think there are some barriers today. It is cooperatives, it is cooperative companies, it is employees, customer- and consumer-owned companies, which we do not think today have the right framework for developing and creating jobs in Denmark. So this is a focus we have in our business policy at the moment, where we think there is a lot to be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218150002	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218150003	Thank you to the rapporteur for his reply. And the rapporteur is quite right: there are not really any other options. For the policy that Enhedslisten is now pursuing with the Finance Act that is being passed will actually lead to fewer family-owned companies and more companies that are then owned by a capital fund. So that is the answer: Enhedslisten wants more companies that are owned by capital funds. Enhedslisten also mentions the one with employee-owned companies. What type of company believes Enhedslisten will most likely involve the employees in the ownership of a fund-owned company or a family-owned company?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218150037	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218150038	I do not know where the rapporteur has come from, that this should lead to such fewer family-owned businesses. In other words, the solution there is, moreover, means that the residence and gift tax that the heir will pay when the heir gets a company that has a value, and you have to pay the estate and gift tax, you can pay it back in 30 years • 30 years! So it can be done. It is a question of roll-back a tax relief which has been deeply unfair and deeply unfair, and it is even done in a way that it is obvious to everyone that that money can easily be paid when you have 30 years to pay back in.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218150117	Thank you. The next one is sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218150120	Thank you for the floor. Sir. Rune Lund says he's glad this is the greenest bill ever made. But the question is whether the initiatives that lie in it are so green. And I will mention two of them: there is a threefold increase in the tax on plastic bags and a threefold increase in the tax on disposable services. But the problem with both taxes is that they are weight-based, because it is the case that a plastic bag that you buy in the store is typically lighter than the one made from recycled plastic. So there is a negative incentive to use recycled plastics. In the same way you can have a disposable plate made of plastic, which typically weighs less than one that may be made of palm leaves, i.e. something that is biodegradable and that you can in principle throw into the wild even if you shouldn't do it. But can the rapporteur not just confirm that this gives a negative incentive to use the materials that are actually good in relation to the green conversion, in other words that in relation to using materials for one-off services that are biodegradable or using recycled plastics, this is actually a step in the wrong direction?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218150217	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218150218	No, this is a step in the right direction, and it is because we want to reduce the use of one-off services in general, but in fact also of disposable bags, plastic bags and paper bags. And if we take the one-time service as an example, it may be that some of it is biodegradable, and that sounds very good at first hand, but if it is made of biological material, for example. palm leaves, which have come from far away, there is also a negative climate effect. And that is also why we have a wording in the Finance Act that we will look at the possibility of making an adjustment along the way, in relation to whether it will be possible to take greater account of the kind of one-off service that is least harmful, one might say. But the overarching purpose is still to limit the use of this, which is why it is some very sensible and good measures that we have in the Finance Act in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218150315	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218150317	But should we not have looked at it first if we wanted to make a differentiated tax instead of coming up with it afterwards? For where the argument falls slightly to the ground is that there has been such a one-time service directive from the European Union, which says that by 2021, for example, all plastic cutlery must be used. be prohibited. Then what's left? Well, then there's cutlery, for example. is made of bamboo where it is not a problem in relation to nature. So it's just about getting money in the box. This isn't about the climate. Well, you create negative incentives to use the materials that actually work. And then it is fine that you try to sell it as a green finance law, but the initiatives that lie in it have a negative effect because you then use what is actually bad.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218150355	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218150357	No, it does not have a negative effect, but if you look at the pure climate effect, there is little effect on the one-time service proposal. But it is true that it is also about getting some money in the box. And why does it do that? That's because we use that money in the box to launch a whole series of green initiatives in this financial law, which is historically green. So I do not think there is anything awkward or creepy about putting a tax on one-off services, which we obviously need less of, and which should not be floating around in nature either. And when there comes a revenue from it and comes in some money and we spend it on green conversion, I actually think it's common sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218150430	Thank you. The next short remark is Mr. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218150434	Thank you for a good Finance Act, thank you for a green Finance Act, thank you for the greenest Finance Act. As the rapporteur himself said, we are not yet in the finish line, among other things. Not in the green area, because that is where we need to go even further. One of the tools that could be put into play in this connection could be an air tax, because an air tax is both CO2 but the rapporteur said earlier in another reply that the proceeds would only be used to raise the green cheque, and then I just wanted to make it absolutely clear whether that means that Enhedslisten will not introduce an air tax if the proceeds then go exclusively to CO2 2
ParlaMint-DK_20191218150529	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218150531	I think this is a fine question, because I think it illustrates where the Enhedslisten and Radicals stand in the climate debate. I think both of our parties agree that there should be an air tax, but on the one hand we are extremely concerned that the green transition should not be socially biased, and therefore we want to return an air tax via the green cheque so that we can compensate people with small and low incomes. When we see the climate plan that we presented in February of this year, so even though there is a climate tax and the money that comes up for it, it is still the case that, in our plan, we have secured funding for the green conversion. We do this because, first of all, we send the bill to those who make the most of it, but we also send the bill to some of the big companies, among other things. by closing tax holes. So climate policy cannot be pursued without at the same time considering what the distribution effect is. So to say that you are in favour of an air transport tax, I would say that you have to think about what it is to be for an air transport tax, and you also have to think about what the revenue is to be used for, otherwise you will lose out completely in relation to the fact that the green transition must be socially fair. And I have to admit that the Radicals sometimes lose a little touch with reality in relation to the lack of focus on social justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218150644	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218150646	That was a very long answer to a very simple question. If I am to understand that it is the policy of Enhedslisten that an air tax will only be introduced if Enhedslisten can determine what the proceeds are to be, the swelling of the green cheque, but will not introduce an air tax if it means that you can invest in CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20191218150711	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218150712	I think this is a rather strange question, because I could ask the opposite question to the Radicals: will the Radicals only introduce an air tax if the money goes to the green conversion? Is it the view of the Radicals that people with low and small incomes should not be compensated at all? Our proposal, our starting point, is that there should be an airline tax, the proceeds should be returned via the green cheque, because we want to compensate people with small and low incomes. It is our starting point that when we make taxes, people with small and low incomes must be compensated so that inequality does not increase and there will be popular support for the green transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218150747	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218150752	Thank you. I'd like to hear Mr. Knox. Rune Lund, if he agrees that with this finance law, nothing has been agreed to do for about the third of the smallest children who go to day care instead of in crèche.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218150807	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218150809	We have agreed on a really big and great boost in the area of day-care, and there are a lot of areas in this financial law that we have not been promised. One of the reasons for this is that we have had to collect a small in quotation marks bill from the previous government of 3.5 billion. kr., which has been left behind, while the previous government agreed tax reductions for 2015-2019, which will cost 22 billion each year. kr. kr. a year! You left us a bill of 3.5 billion. kr. In case you hadn't made permanent tax reductions for 22 billion. kr. and had not left a bill of 3.5 billion. kr., there might have been a little more to the area that was mentioned here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218150856	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218150858	Thank you for confirming that you're not doing anything for the children who go into day care. Then I want to hear why it is more important to do something for the children who go to crèches rather than those who go to day care. It is certainly not the child-adult ratio that can explain it. In addition, this boost to the children's area is going to hit quite extremely wrong compared to rural areas, where there are a lot more people in day care. So I'd like to know why the day care children are more important than the day care children.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218150920	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218150921	We believe that day care institutions are important because they offer a better and good and coherent educational offer. We do not believe that day care providers have the same opportunity to make that offer. That is why our focus is first and foremost on strengthening the day institutions. We know that the other arrangements exist and we are also working to improve their conditions. After so many tax reliefs have been granted which have been most beneficial to the wealthiest, we have not been able to pick up on all the cuts and deteriorations that have been going on for years. And then you have to hear from a Leftman down in the Chamber that we don't want to do anything for welfare. I have to admit, I think it's a little breathy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218151002	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218151004	Thank you. I think I have come to the conclusion of a political law in this debate, and that is that politicians only care about social science when they have to hide something. This is true when opinion polls go back, and it is true when it comes to explaining what it is like to stand platter to a financial law where inequality is increasing. Because if we're going to discuss foreigners over time, we obviously have to use the same definition year by year, otherwise everything just breaks down in post-actual talk. But my colleague Mr. Ole Birk Olesen used to ask about the fact that every group in society is becoming poorer by this financial law. And I simply do not think we got an answer to that question. I have been in many debates and have participated in many political debates where Enhedslisten was present, and there we have always been categorically opposed to political action that increased poverty. Has the Enhedslisten changed its position on the question of policy measures that increase poverty?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218151103	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218151104	In fact, I did a lot of hard work to give an honest and proper answer to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. This bill of finance increases equality. Then a calculation of the Gini coefficient has been made on the sub-elements of the Finance Act; the sub-elements of the Finance Act, where it has been possible to make a Gini coefficient calculation, show that, in this way, inequality will also be reduced, but that is only if one element of the Finance Act is excluded, and that is the increase in cigarettes. Because that's what makes the difference. And we should just be aware that the increase in the tax on cigarettes is a very separate issue, where it is absolutely necessary to have an increase in the tax on cigarettes in combination with other preventive measures, among other things. smoking cessation courses for socially vulnerable people, which are also part of the Finance Act, have been fought for by the Enhedslisten; because a tax increase will also lead to greater equality in the longer term, not least greater equality in health. And that is why it is also a political assessment where we go in and say that it is important to do this way in order to solve a major social problem, such as: deals with inequality in health.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218151216	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218151218	Well, I note that very, very meticulous methodological discussions in the future must be part of the discussion of inequality when we discuss inequality and part of the discussion of poverty, so that there is good inequality and there is poor inequality and there is good poverty and there is poor poverty. And it's kind of an intellectual advance that I'm actually just gonna sign for. I expect that it will be the same after the next elections when we have a blue government.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218151247	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218151248	This financial law reduces inequality, and it's a really good financial law. Well, the Gini coefficient is what it is. And what is being presented here on my part is the reality. Then one might say that Enhedslisten had a problem if we had previously argued that Gini should be omniscient. Sir. Henrik Dahl should be very welcome to go out and trawl the entire internet to find quotes of this kind. Sir. Henrik Dahl can also start reading some of the articles on the Internet media solidarity.dk, where I have detailed our position on the Gini coefficient long before these finance negotiations were concluded. So there is no red and blue inequality. There is one inequality, and that is the kind of inequality that blues promote, and that is one that we fight.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218151340	Thank you. Let's move on. The next person to ask questions is sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218151342	This is a very interesting discussion. Sticking methods? No, but not exactly, when you make it up this year, what you usually criticize a government with a different color to do, doesn't, because now you're part of it. I guess it's an acroksimative approach and reality perception, or whatever you need to use funny terms. I also think that the rapporteur came a little light on the question of what this threefold change of generation tax will mean in relation to family-owned businesses. Because there was no clear answer in what the rapporteur said about what this will mean for the industrial structure in Denmark. So I ask again: does the rapporteur believe that there will be more or fewer family-owned companies after the triple of the generational tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218151452	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218151454	This residence and gift tax has been up to 30% in the past. It's been headed for the 5%. with what the blue government did, and now it comes up to 15%. Again. I have in fact put a question to the Ministry of Taxation as to whether there has been such a negative effect in the fact that it has been at other levels in the past, and that has not been established. So I have not seen any scientific evidence at all to say that this will lead to fewer family-owned companies, especially when there are 30 years to pay back. But I do know that this will be quite sensible for the economy, and we can of course take a statement from Bent Greve, who is a professor at the Department of Social Sciences and Occupation at Roskilde University, who says: "Because a member of a family can do something, it is not certain that the children can do the same. Because a father is a high-level soccer player, it is not certain that the children will be. In the same article Carl-Johan Dalgaard from the Economic Council also says that it is thus a reduction in productivity to have the particularly low housing and gift tax that the blues introduced.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218151559	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218151601	But you could also read a little further if you have to take the DØR's report: If the capital markets do not function properly and it is not possible to finance the tax payment, a lower inheritance tax may be beneficial as a result of increased liquidity at the time of the transfer of the business. Thus, the sale of important assets or, at worst, the closure of otherwise healthy companies can be avoided. It is also the Economic Council. I mean, you have to read the whole section and not do a selective reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218151632	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218151633	I have to say that I think it is a very selective reading, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen, if the Left is now trying to convey that the economic wise men certainly think it was a very, very good idea to lower the tax to 5%. They believe in the opposite, and it is also very well exemplified in what Carl-Johan Dalgaard has been quoted here on DR's website on 18 October 2019:•It is encouraged that more companies remain governed within a family rather than being sold or given a different management. This reduces productivity in society as a whole," says Carl-Johan Dalgaard. That's what it says very well.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218151711	Then it's mr. Tommy Ahlers.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218151714	Thank you to the rapporteur. I'd been thinking about something else, but now I'd like to follow up on this. After all, the rapporteur is actually contradicting himself on the platform. For the rapporteur says that it is impossible to say whether it has led to more capital-owned companies, but then you read out the quotes which are just about the Economic Council saying that by doing this you can get more capital-owned companies, which sometimes they think can be a better form of ownership based on some research that is made from it. Then the rapporteur cannot see for himself that it sounds a little strange that, on the one hand, we will not be dealing with the fact that this could lead to a change in business structure in Denmark, where we will have fewer family-owned companies and more fund-owned companies, and, on the other hand, we are arguing for their science about how this can be productivity-enhancing or productivity-lowering.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218151800	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218151801	Then I think we are back in my reply to Mr Seligman's question. Morten Dahlin's question, which is that there may also be variants of companies that lie between the evil capital fund and a family-owned company. Bottom line here is that there is no economic argument for having the low housing and gift tax that the VLAK government thought was so important and which was then voted through with the help of the Danish People's Party, other than if you would like to give some people in Danish business with no economic sense behind it. kr., which we can use for a lot of sensible measures. We can, among other things. To remove the educational ceiling, as Mr. After all, Tommy Ahlers was out in the election campaign, and he was a fanfare for having to be removed. Now we understand that we should probably have read the small stuff and that perhaps the Left did not really mean it today. We could understand that at Troels Lund Poulsen up here. But it is a skewed tax relief that we remove, and we then spend the money on a lot of sensible things, among other things. to remove the training ceiling. Sir, I'm afraid so. Tommy Ahlers is really happy about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218151908	Sir. Tommy Ahlers.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218151910	If we make sure that Danish business is well, we can afford it all. I would like to ask Mr. Rune Lund on what the economic wise men say this autumn when they say: At the same time, it is likely that the distorting effects of the taxation of inheritance are generally less than the negative effects of the taxation of other types of capital income. This suggests that a more relaxed taxation of capital income may, if necessary, be more appropriate in other ways. Has the Enhedslisten, now that you want to listen to the Economic Council, considered looking at other forms of capital income and perhaps reducing it in relation to them instead of helping Danish business?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218151947	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218151948	We want to harmonise capital income, wage income and share income, and we think that this can be done in a very sensible way by raising the percentage in relation to what ordinary employees pay in tax. Nowadays, the percentages paid for capital and share income are lower than those paid by ordinary people who go to work every day. It is basically unfair that, because you own securities and move around on them and sell and buy, you can make more money than doing regular work as a nurse, machine worker or educator. So we can easily achieve harmonisation, but it will be in such a fairer direction and not an inequality-building direction, as Mr. Tommy Ahlers suggests.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218152025	Thank you. We can just make one last brief comment, and it is for Mrs Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218152029	Thank you. The financial bill we are debating here today will, of course, make Denmark less Danish. This will, of course, allow more strangers to stay in Denmark, because it allows refugees and family members to stay here if they have work, and you raise benefits, which will probably attract migrants, also from Muslim countries. So we have a result in a few years that will probably have led to Islam being more present in Denmark than it would otherwise have been. Last week we had a debate on citizenship in which one of the Enhedslisten's rapporteurs said that it was not seen as a problem that Islamist people were given citizenship in Denmark. Was it a single cerebral hemorrhage, or is it really the position of Enhedslisten that one is not worried that Denmark will contain both a larger Muslim population, but also elements that have an Islamist basic attitude?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218152134	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218152136	I do not know what has been said in that debate. I can say that we do not see it as a separate problem that you become a citizen because you have Islam as a religion. But I almost understand the question as if that is the problem for the Danish People's Party. So, people with Muslim background or people who believe in Islam should not be Danish citizens. Or what kind of premise is that behind that question? If I have understood the question correctly in this way, I have to admit that I really think it is a rather grotesque question. You can obtain citizenship if you live up to the rules of citizenship, and that is, of course, whatever religion you have, and I really hope that is the view of the Danish People's Party. What is the Danish People's Party's view on this? I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218152221	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218152223	We clearly want as little Islam as possible to be present in Denmark and we are concerned about if Islamists acquire Danish citizenship. If we openly support a caliphate, that is, the overthrow of democracy, if we openly support the fact that women are worth half as much as men, and homosexuals and Jews are undesirable, then we think it is a problem to give people citizenship, and these are the rules we are debating whether we can somehow tighten up so that we can avoid it. The Enhedslisten has then argued that one is not so that the question is again: Does it not at all worry the Enhedslisten's rapporteur that a larger number of people with Danish citizenship who have such attitudes can be obtained?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218152305	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218152307	I think I got a very unclear answer as to whether one can be a Muslim and so few Danish citizenship, and whether it is something that the Danish People's Party really thinks is okay. Our position is that you get citizenship if you live up to the guidelines and we are not in favour of some kind of political control of your mind, if that is what the Danish People's Party is proposing. We are in favour of there being rules which apply to all those who wish to become Danish citizens, and it is quite reasonable that there are rules and conditions for one to become a Danish citizen. But it is also fair that we have rules that are linked and also motivate people to be able to have citizenship, because it will also be very good and contribute to integration into society.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218152347	Thank you for that to the Enhedslisten rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218152408	Thank you for the floor. I have been a financial rapporteur for a few years, but this is actually the first time I have to comment on a financial law that the Conservative People's Party is not part of. And it hasn't gotten any better, I'd like to start by saying that. However, I would also like to start by thanking the Minister for Finance for a fair process. We did not get into this year's agreement, but there has been an honest expectation that, in order to go along with enough realistically, our demands could not be met by the government and its support parties, and we actually appreciate that. If it was Conservative, we made a Finance Act which took care of the green transition, continued the tight immigration policy, while at the same time providing better conditions for business and allowing the Danes to keep more of their money. Welfare is not to make public budgets as large as possible, it is also to ensure that there is prosperity and prosperity in Denmark. Over the past many years, changing governments have made progress. We have repeatedly made reforms that have made Denmark richer. Schlüter, Nyrup, Fogh Rasmussen, Thorning and Løkke did so, and that is why Denmark is so rich a country today. Mette Frederiksen's first Finance Act unfortunately does the opposite. Unfortunately, it is without exaggeration and without being polemical, but the Finance Act is largely cleared of initiatives that benefit growth and business in Denmark and get people into work. There are plenty of gifts to the public sector, but there is no one for business and the Danes' private economy only tax increases that harm business and growth and make Danes poorer while the public sector gets more money. It is a fact that the Finance Act will result in fewer people being in work, it lowers the labour supply.That is what the Finance Minister's own calculations say, and the Ministry of Finance also states, at least according to the Stock Exchange, that the Finance Act will mean that all income groups will become poorer. All groups get less money because of tax increases on work phones, house purchases, plastic bags, etc. The question then is whether it is conscious on the part of the Social Democrats and the support parties to make a financial law that stubbornly makes the Danish economy and make the Danes poorer. I do not think so, in fact, because when I was on Denmark's Radio a few weeks ago to discuss the financial agreement with the Social Democrats' Finance Rapporteur, Christian Rabjerg Madsen, he stated that the Finance Act would raise the labour supply, weakly, not much, he claimed it would not be raised much, but he claimed that it would raise the labour supply. It was wrong. The Ministry of Finance informed a few days later that the Finance Act reduces labour supply. Christian Rabjerg Madsen did not quite understand what the effect on Danish economy was on the Finance Act. Neither did SF's party chairman, Pia Olsen Dyhr. When she and Søren Lippert were asked on TV 2 News about the effects of the Finance Act on tax pressure, labour supply, growth and such things, she replied, according to Berlingske, that she knew nothing about this, but she hoped that some in the Ministry of Finance knew it. Apparently, it wasn't important for SF to know until they agreed to the Finance Act. So we have a government and some support parties that have entered into a financial agreement without worrying about what it does to the Danish economy. The Left has been so busy handing out money to the public sector that they do not have the skeleton to the economy, and that does not seem to us to be particularly responsible. Isolatedly, there are good elements in the Finance Act... it should not only be criticism... and the Conservative People's Party welcomes in particular the green initiatives in the Finance Act. Nor is it because, for example, we did not want to abolish the education ceiling, give more money to care for the elderly and primary schools, of course we would like to do so, but we just do not think that welfare is only about making public budgets as large as possible. Welfare is above all that Denmark is a rich country, and we will not let public spending and taxes rise unbridled. In addition, it is also scandalous that the government, with the Finance Act, is once again relaxing foreign policy. When we bourgeois came to power in 2015, Denmark was one of the countries in Europe that received the most asylum seekers per year. population, including: Because the Social Democratic Thorning government had relaxed foreign policy in the years before. We carried out a long series of tightenings, which we did not do because we love to tighten. We do not love to tell people that they cannot live in Denmark, because it is unpleasant, but we are concerned about how large the ethnic minority will be in Denmark in the future. The result of the austerity that we have carried out was that today Denmark is no longer one of the countries that gets the most asylum seekers per year. citizens of Europe, and it has spared us approx. 50,000 asylum seekers in the period 2015-2019, that we have made the tightenings 50,000. If, like Thorning, the Socialists now relax their foreign policy again, we will again have more asylum seekers. The Social Democrats promised this during the election campaign that they would not do, and they made it clear again and again that they did not relax the policy of foreigners, and that was why many Danes voted in favour of social democracy. It is therefore strange that the Socialists are doing exactly that now, namely relaxing foreign policy. The Finance Act means more quota refugees, higher benefits for refugees and that refugees will have the right to stay in Denmark if they have work. For many years, the Danish People's Party, in the financial law negotiations, had tightened its foreign policy in return for accepting that the bourgeois parties were granted tax relief. The Radical Left is now doing the opposite; they are getting relief from foreign policy in return for accepting that the left is getting tax increases. It's a kind of reverse Danish People's Party, you might call it. So, all in all, unfortunately, there is most reason to criticise the Finance Act. As I have said, there are, of course, isolated measures which we will also vote for in the vote that is coming now, but above all we are unhappy with tax increases, easing foreign policy and a financial law that does nothing good for Danish business and Danish economy and makes the Danes a little poorer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218153044	Thank you. We shall now proceed to the brief remarks. The first is from Mrs Camilla Fabricius. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218153052	Thank you. And like the rapporteur for the Conservatives, I am also new to this, so we can, of course, be equal in terms of trying something new. I understand that the Conservatives do not think that it is a good idea to have minimum standards, that children should have an extra adult and have more care, despite the fact that we have seen that things are not going so well in kindergartens and that money is now set aside in the Finance Act in 2025, which can provide minimum standards throughout the country. Conversely, Conservatives say that minimum standards are a task for the municipalities. Then we know a municipality where the Conservatives have an extraordinary responsibility, namely the municipality of Frederiksberg. Does the rapporteur think that this is a good example of how to carry out the task of minimum standards?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218153148	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218153149	Thank you for that question. We are not opposed to having a locally agreed minimum standard. We are opposed to the Folketing deciding that minimum standards should apply everywhere in the country. We are for two reasons. Firstly, because we are opposed to the fact that we in the Folketing so much detail regulate how the municipalities should spend their money, and secondly because it sometimes develops into that it is actually going to set a ceiling rather than a bottom for the norms. So the concept of having more educators around the institutions obviously we do not mind, but we think it should be decided locally instead of deciding this in the Folketing. Yes, it is also, as I recall, the case that Frederiksberg and Helsingør have introduced minimum standards in their institutions. We have the impression that this works very well, and for that they should be very commended.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218153243	Mrs. Camilla Fabricius.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218153244	Thank you. As the rapporteur has already said, in detail, we can respect municipal self-government and have repeatedly seen how things are going in today's institutions, and we have seen the many parents and educators who say that the well-being of children has been lost and that much more care is needed, and the government and the support parties have therefore made it clear that we need to secure the bottom, as the rapporteur himself says, I do not understand whether the Conservatives will actually support it or whether they do not want to.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218153325	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218153326	We would like to support the fact that there are reasonable conditions in the municipalities between the amount of resources you get and the demands we make on them. But I think there should be respect for the division of labour between the municipalities and the Folketing. If you want to do something to solve some municipal tasks, you should run for the municipal council and then take the fight where it has to be fought. Just as I also think that the municipalities should sometimes not pretend that they can introduce free hash or other things which are merely a parliamentary decision, we should also respect what decisions we have to make and what decisions we have to take locally in municipal councils.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218153402	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218153405	Thank you. And thank you for the parts of the rose that went to the green part of this finance bill. We in the Radical Left are very, very concerned about this, in fact also very much aware that it is only a first small step. It's probably the greenest Finance Act ever, but the job ahead of us is huge. And that's why I'm also preoccupied with Conservatives calling themselves the Green Party among the Blues if we can now, when we're negotiating the Climate Action Plan, take the next steps, among others. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218153451	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218153452	In other words, we would like to see that air travel is something that is decided Europeanly, and we are probably somewhat dubious about whether it is a good idea to do it as a Danish solo step, because the effect will be questionable, in terms of flying from other places, and that it will be extremely damaging to the Danish economy. In general, we hope that we can do some good work together with the Radical Left to reduce Denmark's CO2 and we can do that together, if the Radicals so wish, because the Radicals are the tongue of the scales here. The Radicals decide whether climate policy should be a watermelon that is nice and green on the outside, but inside is filled with socialism, planned economy and rising taxes, or whether they want to create a more sensible climate policy with us, which uses the most effective tools to reduce CO2 and there we very much hope that the Radicals will help us instead of helping the left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218153601	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218153603	The Radical Left will help the green transition and we will use all our efforts to make it as far as possible as possible, because we do not have time to wait. And one of the other measures that lies in the right direction is to do what we have been doing for a number of years: to use the part of agricultural aid that can be flexed, that is to say to make green. And we are actually faced with a huge task right now and here, because before 1 January we have to report how much of the agricultural aid in the coming years we are going to make green, in other words use to set aside agricultural land. Will the Conservative People's Party be involved in this, in other words to make as much green as possible?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218153642	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218153643	I do not think we have any objection to that as a starting point. In other words, it is clear that agriculture has a huge role to play and it is clear that agriculture must also contribute to the green transition. It is also important for us to deal with agriculture properly, so it is also a businessman who is entitled, for example, to do so. do not decide at 2 months' notice that now we have to completely change our plans for 2020, as was decided recently in the mini-agricultural package made by the government and the support parties. Then we also hope that we will be involved a little earlier, so that we do not make a final agreement and then come to us and ask whether we want to join in, but that we also have the opportunity to offer proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218153723	Thank you. Then it's mr. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218153726	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. There was much that the Danish People's Party could agree with. Unfortunately, it is a Finance Act that makes Danes poorer, it is not a Finance Act that makes Denmark richer, and that is what we need if we are also to have a welfare society. I would like to see the rapporteur on cross-border trade. After all, one of the proposals is that a package of cigarettes should increase significantly over the next few years, and that will increase cross-border trade. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether it is good for Denmark or whether it is bad for Denmark that border trade is significantly increased.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218153759	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218153800	It is, of course, in isolation bad that cross-border trade should increase without a doubt. Nevertheless, we have, with open eyes, been involved in agreeing that cigarette prices should rise • we have even adopted a resolution here in the Assembly that this should happen and we have done so, knowing that there is, of course, a border trade problem. However, we have considered health to be very important and that smoking is one of the biggest killers in Denmark, and we would therefore like to have something done about that. It cannot be right that there should be more smokers in Denmark than in comparable countries, which is why we feel that we need to do something about it, even if it involves some border trade.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218153836	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218153839	I would like to say that the goal of fewer smokers, especially young people, is indeed shared in the Danish People's Party. As we can demonstrate, we must hope that they are wrong that cross-border trade will increase significantly, among other things. We must also go down and buy cigarettes, because it is the product that is now becoming attractive and pricey. At the same time, we want to buy other products with us, and many of them are spirits, wine, beer and soft drinks, sweets and so on, i.e. products that do not contribute to health, and is the rapporteur not afraid that one hand will draw the health card and the other hand will draw the other card, which may be drawn in the opposite direction? And then the question is, how far do we actually get?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218153917	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218153918	I recognise, of course, the point that I think is good and relevant. I also believe that the people who have been sitting and making estimates of what it will mean to raise cigarette prices have included it in their estimates, and I know that it is still the case that it is estimated that it will get fewer people smoking in Denmark. This is probably primarily a problem which is relevant in the southern part of Jutland and perhaps around Elsinore. It is not the case that everywhere in the country people can easily drive hundreds of kilometres and then trade at the border. But the point is right, and of course you have to take that into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218153952	Thank you. And the next for a brief comment is Mrs Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218153954	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Now Mr. Rasmus Jarlov that he would like to have better care for the elderly and schools and to abolish the educational ceiling. I am glad to hear that, but should I then understand that it is not here that the rapporteur would cut 1 billion? kr. of investment? And can the rapporteur then list where he is going to take a whole billion from? For then there is almost nothing left to lose the whole promise to psychiatry along with the whole promise to the day institutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218154028	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218154029	No, but then I haven't made myself clear enough. In other words, we are voting against the abolition of the education ceiling, and we are also voting against the extra money that will be given to the primary school and to the care of the elderly, because we cannot agree to it being financed by increasing taxes in Denmark. We would like to have money for these things. It is not the case that we think it is bad to give more money to the primary school and care for the elderly, because we would like to, but the Finance Act here is based on raising taxes and it is largely cleared of savings proposals. That is why we cannot simply agree to raising public expenditure and taxes in the way we are doing here, and that is why we are also voting against the spending items in the Finance Act. In other words, when we vote against the tax increases that have been proposed, we must of course also vote against the expenditure items that have been proposed, so that things are linked.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218154119	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218154120	It is a good thing that Conservatives are consistent in this respect. I just think it's a shame that they aren't, compared to what you have to pay in taxes as heir... that you don't have to pay the same if you inherit a cottage like if you inherit your family-owned business. Now the rapporteur talks a lot about creating better opportunities for business in Denmark. So I'd like to know if Mr. Rasmus Jarlov will then help to look at the whole of the Danish business community, which is based on the consumer idea, the cooperative movement and democratically owned companies, i.e. whether the rapporteur will help to see how we can improve conditions for that part of the business community.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218154201	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218154202	Well, we are absolutely consistent, including in relation to our tax policy. We are in favour of lower taxes, and we are in favour of measures that create growth and employment in Denmark, and not measures that weaken growth and employment in Denmark. That is why, of course, we cannot support the tax increase that is now being given to business, estimated at 1 billion. kr. for the family-owned companies. And it is not the case that there is a harmful effect on employment by taxing the inheritance of a holiday home. So that is the difference between the two situations. In relation to the joint companies owned by these employees, it is possible to create this kind of thing already today. And I have missed the reason for extending that scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218154242	Thank you. Then it's mr. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218154245	Thank you. I think the rapporteur paints a gloomy picture of this financial law, not least in relation to business. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether he does not see at all the link between good business policy and the good thing about having his children properly cared for, so that those who are in business can safely send their little girl away in the morning to the institution where there are proper educators. Is it not also good business policy to invest in our primary school so that in the long term you can have skilled employees? Does the rapporteur not recognise that coherence?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218154319	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218154320	I recognise that there is a connection, but I do not recognise that it is business policy to give more money to kindergartens. It is still too far to extend the language, I think. If you look at the way the business community has received the Finance Act, you can also see that there is broad dissatisfaction that there are no incentives, largely, in this Finance Act, which benefits business, while there are plenty of tax increases that weaken business, weaken growth, weaken employment in Denmark. And this is indeed a new direction for the government in this respect, and that is why I have to make a rather harsh criticism of it, because socio-economically it is just a really bad financial law.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218154400	Sir. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218154402	I now believe that many of the employees in the business community are very pleased that more money is being allocated to the day institutions in this financial law. This is true, for example. at Frederiksberg, where minimum standards have been promised by 2023. When I look at Frederiksberg's budget, I see that no money has been set aside in either 2021, 2022 or 2023 but only in 2020. Then Mr. Rasmus Jarlov really that it should be solely a municipal task to ensure better standards?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218154428	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218154429	After all, most people have a job, and it is not the case that if you do something that people employed in a private company think is nice in their private lives, it becomes business policy. To the last question about whether Frederiksberg has been set aside after 2020, I would say that I do not know anything about that, i.e. how much money has been set aside at Frederiksberg. But I know that the Conservatives at Frederiksberg also think that this sort of thing should be a municipal decision, and not something that we decide in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218154458	Thank you. The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218154503	Thank you. One of the things that has been important to the Radical Left in the Finance Act has been to tear down the education ceiling because it limits the future of young people. And just as when you are an entrepreneur, as I suppose the rapporteur knows, it is not always the first idea you get that is the best one, because you learn through life. One simply becomes wiser along the way. I have read that Conservatives have held a national council where they said that they did not want the education ceiling, but I can then hear that the rapporteur says today that they will vote against it later, that they will have to abolish it. I would therefore like to know whether Conservatives would then be able to finance the abolition of the education ceiling in any other way, or whether it is not particularly high on the agenda for Conservatives to create better opportunities for young people to choose the education and the future they want.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218154600	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218154601	Well, you could imagine. As I also said, we would like to abolish the education ceiling; we just do not want to finance it with tax increases, and this is where we had hoped that the Radicals would also stand firm that we pay enough tax in Denmark, which, as far as I remember, has the second highest tax burden in the OECD. It doesn't have to be taller. It must be the case that, within the huge public budget that we have in Denmark, we must be able to give priority to something so that it is not always the case that you just need more money, but also sometimes you can take some money in some places and then spend it where you think it is most important. The Radicals are also right that such things as education are more important than some other public expenditure, and then you have to cut down a little where you have less important spending in order to give priority to education.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218154651	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218154653	But isn't it a little strange that the rapporteur's party has criticized this financial law in such a way that it lacks any initiatives for business? Because this is something that Danish Industry and others have said. You have said: let us get rid of the educational ceiling, let us abolish it, let us make young people more adaptable in the reality that meets them. This really is something the business community has asked for, but Conservatives do not think it is so important to comply with the business community's wishes on that front. Why is it that just what business is asking for when it comes to the future of young people and the opportunities of young people is not very high on Conservatives' agenda?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218154727	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218154729	I really think that, as a starting point, this is a rather strange question when I have just said that we want to be involved in abolishing the education ceiling, and then the rapporteur asks why we do not want to be involved in abolishing it. I mean, we want to, but it's funding that's the problem. We are not a party in favour of a higher tax burden in Denmark, which is why we simply cannot vote for funding a whole lot of extra expenditure in the public sector by raising taxes. That's what divides us.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218154753	Thank you. Then it's mr. Henrik Møller.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218154757	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Rasmus Jarlov for such reasonably clear speech. I would like to say that some of the criticisms made by the rapporteur, I will almost choose to regard as praise in the context of the fact that a new course has been set, a new course which says that the re-prioritisation contribution is not something that has benefited welfare developments in society. Nor has the giving of tax incentives necessarily benefited the welfare development that exists. We have invested in the fact that we have a demographic development which has not been taken into account in the past. It is, of course, very tempting to say that we are in favour of everything, but we do not agree with the financing of this. So it is quite clear in this sense that there is a difference in saying that we want a new course, we want a different path in this respect, and so to say that we also see investment in education as not a growth incentive, but as a growth driver, around this. But it is the case that we in the government want to reduce the amount of waste and reduce the consumption of plastic (fourth Vice-President Yes, thank you!), in particular: by increasing taxes on plastic and paper carrier bags as well as one-off service (fourth Vice-President Thank you!). The increases will encourage recycling and reduce consumer demand for disposable products, and I would ask: do you support the Conservative proposal for a higher tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218154916	Thank you. That was a very long question. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218154919	Well, then I can save some time here by answering briefly: Yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218154923	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218154925	So what we are hearing from the rapporteur, who has criticised increases in what consumers and citizens have to pay, is that it is in fact agreed that tax increases can be a good tool in the fight for the green agenda?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218154939	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218154941	Tax restructuring can be a good tool; and that is the difference. Because we can be in favour of having a plastic tax on cigarettes too; it is not a green tax, it is a health tax and also on forms of pollution and CO2 We can agree to that, in fact we would like there to be taxes. For us, however, it is only important to reduce some other taxes at the same time. And that's where I really have to warn here too in the coming time when we have to negotiate concrete climate initiatives that it won't be this watermelon that's green on the outside, but really is red inside and filled with socialism and taxes, because we have high taxes enough in Denmark already.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218155014	Thank you! Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218155019	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Jarlov has now said on a number of occasions that it should not be more expensive to be a Dane, but indeed also in the past been a champion of having the border trade down. But now you can understand that it must be more expensive to be a Dane, as long as you are a smoker. It is also funny that there should be increased cross-border trade in cigarettes, because the initiative of the Finance Act brings more than a doubling of frontier trade with cigarettes alone. So it just makes me ask the rapporteur: what is the healthiest thing: is it smoking cigarettes bought in Denmark, or is it smoking those bought in Germany? Probably the answer is the same. In other words, is the rapporteur not concerned that if you just pick up the cigarettes in Germany, it has not helped very much to get people to stop smoking?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218155101	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218155102	I think that Danish cigarettes are healthier because they give such a nice feeling that you leave some money in Denmark after all, and I think that is good for health, but that is probably a marginal difference, I would say. I fully recognise, of course, that there is a problem of border trade. However, we have considered here that it is also important to do something for health. Yes, we can sometimes be in favour of raising some taxes when there are some other taxes we would like to see lowered. We are in favour of a lower tax burden than we have today, not a higher tax burden. But there may well be taxes, it may be sensible to raise, so that you can then lower some other taxes and thus tax the things that we would like to have less of, instead of taxing things that we would like more of, such as, for example, the United Kingdom. work and investment.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218155149	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218155151	I fully buy the argument that you can set up a tax to reduce another tax or tax. However, the Conservative resolution adopted on the second day did not do so. It proposed to raise the price of cigarettes, but there was no similar tax reduction of, for example, the price of cigarettes. That is to say, something else on which tax could be reduced and where border trade might also be reduced accordingly. It wasn't there. So what you are saying is really true, but what you have done in the Chamber shows the opposite.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218155219	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218155220	Yes, and that is why, of course, we want to be judged on our overall policy. Now that we have finished this parliamentary term, I promise you that we have put forward proposals to reduce taxes more than we have to raise taxes.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218155234	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218155237	There are, of course, some things in the notification of the Finance Act that I disagree with Mr. Rasmus Jarlov in, but I really do understand and would like to praise the fact that the Conservative People's Party actually stands by and is honest about the fact that when you have that policy and do not support some of the tax changes that we propose you are involved in the plastic, but against the inheritance tax, for example. That's the way things have to be. I understood that it was the proposals on older people's policy and schools that were not found to be affordable, but Mr. Rasmus Jarlov may just confirm. At any rate, I think it deserves praise and makes it possible for us to have a proper political debate on the priorities we have, and I think that the Left could learn something from that, that is to say, it is the way it is, and then we have the political discussion instead of trying to do as if there was no difference with those fiscal fakes. Then we can have that debate and people can relate to it. Respect for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218155341	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218155342	Well, thank you. We would very much like to be realistic in our economic policy. I think the Left too is, but there is no doubt that the Left has been out promising a great promise of prosperity, which we have not promised, and that is why we are now voting against the items of expenditure which are not affordable when we cannot accept the tax cuts that we are not in favour of.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218155405	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218155406	Then there is still another proposal I would like to test on the Conservative People's Party. One of the things that the Left votes against, I understand, is increases in the tax on gambling companies. After all, there are quite a few of those who operate on the commercial market... the licence part of the gambling market in Denmark... that is not even registered in Denmark, do not pay corporation tax in Denmark, and thus earn really, really good money and have a growing business in these years. We think it is reasonable that they help to bear a greater share of the cost to the community of the problems posed by the gambling market. Will the Conservative People's Party support this increase in taxation?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218155445	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218155446	No, we do not want that as a starting point. Once again, we can sometimes see in isolation some tax increases that make sense, but we are very careful to sit and vote for a lot of tax increases, without any compensation, in the form of other taxes being reduced. And this will also affect some companies and some citizens in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218155510	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218155513	I believe that the Conservative People's Party, when it comes to talking about itself, sees itself as such a kind of financially responsible party. It's gonna be nodded from the platform. Then I just have to ask what the financial responsibility is in having left a bill of 3.5 billion. kr. from the VLAK government, which Enhedslisten has had to help pick up in the finance negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218155542	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218155544	There may have been a few items of expenditure or revenue that have been different from expected in the Finance Act we made last year. Generally speaking, it is rather nasty to accuse the abandoned bourgeois government of leaving a bad economy behind. I do not think that there has ever been so much room for manoeuvre for a government as there is now, and so it has probably never been as easy to make a budget law as it has been this year, because a lot of money has actually been spent without the need to raise taxes. You then choose to raise taxes anyway, and that is because you are ideologically in favour of higher taxes. But there is a huge room for manoeuvre and an incredibly strong and healthy Danish economy, which we have left behind to the majority which has now made a financial law and which now chooses to spend much of the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218155640	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218155642	After all, Denmark has a healthy economy, but when we talk about the state's finances, it has to be said that, from 2015 to 2019, the left-wing governments, including the VLAK, have agreed tax reliefs, which will cost 21.7 billion. kr. There were just 3.5 billion per year in lasting effect, but at the same time there were just 3.5 billion. kr., for which no bills had been paid, in relation to the fact that we had to find money for the police, in relation to the fact that we had to find money for the tax administration, which needs to be rebuilt, and in relation to a large number of other areas. So my question is, how responsible is it to leave the bill to someone else?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218155720	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218155722	We haven't left any bills. As I said, we have left a great deal of room for manoeuvre, and it has never been as easy to make a financial law as it has been this year with the economy that we have left behind. And yes, we think it is very, very responsible that we have made a lot of tax cuts while we were part of the majority and were in government, because we are actually in favour of the Danes getting richer and getting more money in their hands. We do not see welfare as something that is only about making public budgets as large as possible, because it is also about people's private economy, and there we are pleased that it has been strengthened while we have had the majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218155756	Thank you. Then it's mr. Nils Sjøberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218155758	Thank you. I understand that sir. Rasmus Jarlov believes that there is no money to change the education ceiling and that there is no money to improve the standards of the institutions. I would like to ask: how can Mr. Rasmus Jarlov then thinks that it's fair enough over a few years to spend over 1 billion. kr. to create a border where only 4 out of 15 border posts are actually guarded? How can this be linked to a sound economic policy advocated by the Conservatives?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218155831	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218155832	It has to be said that if there is something that is economically sensible, then it is to maintain the firm policy of aliens where we prevent more welfare migrants coming to Denmark than is absolutely necessary. There is a really good economy in that. And part of it, in our view, is also that there is a border control. It is about security, and it is generally about the tight immigration policy. So we would like to maintain that. And I would strongly warn the new government and the support parties against continuing to relax foreign policy. Some steps have been taken here with the Finance Act to ease the policy on foreigners, and we think this is very unwise, also economically.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218155913	Sir. Nils Sjøberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218155914	In this context, I would like to follow up on the fact that only 4 out of 15 border posts are actually guarded around the clock. I would say that it is possible, if you want to enter the country, to enter the country, and at the same time more than 1 billion have been spent. kr. Following on from that, I would like to ask a question. After all, both the Radical Left and the Conservatives are concerned about using the police to the best possible extent. How can this be a real economic policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218155946	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218155947	It is absolutely true that border controls do not of course catch everyone and that you can swim over, row over, in some places cross the border down in South Jutland, where there are places that are not guarded. It is quite true that it only guards the main carriers into Denmark. But it does catch most traffic anyway, and that is why we still believe that border controls are an important tool, which has also worked and has produced results.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218160014	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218160018	Thank you. The rapporteur is now a little proud to have left behind a good economy and a record room for manoeuvre. I do not entirely share the enthusiasm, because I see it as one of the biggest failures, that this room for manoeuvre has not been given back to the citizens when they were in power. And there was probably a great probability of knowing, and there I think the rapporteur shares my view, what the red majority would spend the money on if they came to power. So I would like to ask: what were the reasons why, when you could see that this great room for manoeuvre was there, you did not give money back to the citizens where they really belong?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218160053	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218160054	I fully agree that we should, of course, apologise for having come to collect too much money from the citizens and then pay them back in the form of tax cuts. Now I have heard this criticism from Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen many times, that is why we have not made any more tax cuts in the time we have been sitting, and Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen knows the answer. It is because there has not been a majority in favour of this, so it is not really more complicated. And in the Folketing the policy is adopted, for which there is a majority, and there has been no majority in favour of implementing these major tax reductions. So we must hope that some more will vote conservatively next time, so that we have a stronger mandate to get more tax cuts through.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218160133	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218160134	No, and that's funny, because when I criticized the government for that, I asked the various parties who didn't want to lower taxes and taxes. And there I get the answer that Conservatives would like it, the Left says they would also like to lower taxes, and the Liberal Alliance would also like to lower taxes. Then I have talked to DF and they say that they actually want tax reductions too. That's why I get a little confused. Who, then, of the parties that have had the majority said that they did not want the tax reductions when they had the majority? Because when I ask the parties separately, they say: well, we want tax reductions. So somebody must have said no.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218160204	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218160205	Well, it is quite well known that the Danish People's Party has not been willing to implement all the tax reductions that we have wanted. The Left has also been more reluctant than we have been. This was also seen during the election campaign, where the Left would spend a lot of money on what they call welfare, which in modern Danish means more money for municipalities and regions, and we would like to give priority to lowering the tax. So there are degree differences. But I think we have done a lot of good things together, and it is clear at least now that there is a very big difference between what it was like when the bourgeois parties had the majority and what it is like now with the majority there is, because now taxes go up before they went down.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218160242	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Jarlov. No one else has signed up for short remarks to the Conservative People's Party. Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218160254	Thank you. This is a debate entirely according to all the rules of art. We could almost have written in the script in advance that much is criticized by the opposition, a little praises, and then we are arguing a little about it. However, if I have to look back a little and look at the first reading of the financial bill, I have to say that I made it quite clear that if we were to be happy from the Alternative, I even think that I looked at the Finance Minister a little seriously, lifted one eyebrow and said: there is a lack of money for green conversion; there is a lack of higher ambitions for our children and postponed the debate and that there was a lack of a clear signal to the people that Denmark has got a new government that would not just be government, but would actually be a new direction for Denmark. Fortunately, I can then stand here today and say that I can actually see the new direction. So instead of lifting my eyebrow, I'm gonna smile sweetly at the finance minister. Because today we are standing and when I say we, I mean we in the Alternative... somewhere else. We are, for the first time, part of the circle of agreements which has negotiated and agreed on the content of Denmark's next Finance Act. The fact that we are standing here is, of course, due to the fact that since first reading we have been through very long, but also very good and constructive negotiations, which have resulted in a significantly better agreement than what was on the table in the first place. We have here a draft budget which makes it clear that it is first and foremost welfare that is given a much needed boost. We're investing 600 million. kr. in psychiatry. We ensure that more teachers are employed in schools, more educators for children, more nurses in hospitals. The training ceiling shall be removed. We have secured money for human and social education. We have ensured a boost in creative education. And with the social reserve, we have ensured that there is also money for action in relation to the homeless. So we do not just think it is quite good, we are actually really happy with the financial agreement we have landed. We are also pleased that our cultural institutions no longer have to be eroded, so we no longer have to see these annual savings, which have slowly merely undermined what one could create in the Danish institutions • that total cultural cannibalism, which unfortunately has characterized the last four years of cultural policy, a very poor form of cultural policy, which we are delighted to see finished. We then hope that we will see real investment in culture in the future too. Of course, we are also very pleased that more money has been set aside for the green transition and for more initiatives than were originally budgeted for. This extra 1.5 billion has been set aside there. kr. for green research, and we are really, really happy about that. We are, of course, pleased that the tax increases on electric cars have been cancelled and that a new future fund is being set up to help the private sector to be involved in the transformation we are about to embark on. The Climate Council is being strengthened, and this is absolutely essential for us to be able to make good progress in relation to the Climate Act. We get invested in cycling. We get invested in the creation of untouched forest, so we get more wild nature in Denmark, and at the same time we start planting new forest. We are starting to take the steps that need to be taken in agriculture. Additional climate assistance has been added to the long list, a green energy island, etc. etc. All of this is the very good first step in relation to the absolutely necessary work on the green transition that we are about to undertake. We are also very pleased that we have agreed that the possibility of using green bonds to finance the large investments that will be coming shortly should be examined. At the same time as the Finance Act, we have also negotiated a Climate Act, and it can be said that with the two things we have taken the first steps in relation to the necessary new direction, which we must take and not just take as the Danish Parliament, but as part of the world in which we live, on a planet that is challenged by a climate crisis. In the spring there will be the climate action plans, and I can promise that we will continue to fight on. I know that there was a former Minister of Climate and Energy from the Left who spoke of me as insatiable when it came to climate action, and I can promise you that both I and the Alternative continue to be totally insatiable because we must do everything we can to ensure the future for future generations, for nature, for the environment and for our planet. I have always taken the view that none of us are as smart as we are when we are together, and I actually think this agreement is a very good proof of that. Because you could see that everyone's smile was great when we came out the glass door in the Ministry of Finance, and it wasn't a cliffed smile, it was actually a quite honest smile. In fact, this was due to the fact that we jointly had great political ambitions. None of us got everything we wanted. We have all been given something, and I would venture to say that many of the things that each of us has signed in have actually been improved by being turned in the room in which we were sitting. So we can all be proud, and that is why I would like to end my words here by saying a real thank you to the Finance Minister and the Government, to the Social Democracy, to the Enhedslisten, to the SF and to the Radicals for the cooperation that was in these negotiations. I think that we have jointly lifted a financial law which we can be pleased with and which is the first step. We are not in line with anything, but fortunately there will be a financial bill again next year.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218160922	There are three that have been written in for short remarks, so far. Mr President, first of all, I should like to give the floor to Mr Seligman. Troels Lund Poulsen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218160927	Thank you for that and thank you to the Alternative's rapporteur for the speech. I have discussed the integration benefit before with the alternative employment rapporteur, Torsten Gejl, and he has at least announced in a large number of consultations in the past that if the government changed, the benefits of integration would be cut. That is why I think it might be very useful to hear now where the alternative is in this respect.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218160956	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218160956-2	We stand exactly the same place we've been standing all along. We think it should be removed, but there is also a parliamentary reality that allows us, with our five mandates, to play a role and gain influence, but certainly cannot stand and demand everything. But we are fighting for that because we believe that this is the right way to go, and I do not think the government is in any way in doubt about that either.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218161022	Sir. Troels Lund Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218161023	I think that's very honest talk, but that's just not it, sir. Torsten Gejl said earlier during the previous government. There it was an ultimate requirement. If the government changed its power, the integration benefit would have to be removed. So I have to understand, if I may say so, a different approach to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218161038	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218161039	No, I think, sir. Troels Lund Poulsen misunderstands a little. It's a finance bill we've made. The alternative was very clear up to the elections that we went to the elections to form a government in which we had power. This was not the result of the parliament that the voters put together, and we will, of course, go in and work constructively and with open eyes to bring about all the improvements we can. That is what I hope everyone here in the Folketing will do after the elections, in other words actually work for the good solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218161112	Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218161115	Thank you very much for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I understand that the alternative is also in favour, when it comes to rural areas and islands, of having an independent Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Rural Development being located exactly where?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218161132	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218161134	Well, we have proposed that it should be possible to place it elsewhere than in Copenhagen, where it had to do with its work.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218161144	Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218161145	In the Danish People's Party, we are not at all opposed to having a rural minister and a rural ministry, but in relation to the fact that we place a ministry in the country, we just have to remember that while we members of the parliament have the most important task of serving the population, the ministers' job is actually to service the Folketing. So it is incredibly important that ministers are nearby. Had the alternative thought that a ministry out there would be a little harder to take on the task for which it is set in the world?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218161221	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218161222	I can promise the questioner that we have of course thought about this, because we have also had the discussion about the relocations of state jobs.I know that the Danish People's Party thought that it raised the quality when we sent it far away from the capital. So it's a little funny question from the Danish People's Party. This is exactly what you can't send out, but all other agencies, and so on. you can happily send far away from the capital with better quality as a result.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218161251	Then it's Mrs. Mai Villadsen from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218161253	Thank you. The alternative came into the Folketing with the aim of changing the political culture, and I think that is a noble purpose. That is why I would also like to say a few words to praise the alternative and thank you for a good course of negotiations. I would particularly like to spend some time talking about something that has not really been raised in the debate yet, namely culture. For there is no doubt that the alternative has also been a great guarantee that culture has at last been prioritised here in the Danish Parliament; for many years culture has been cut. So I would like to thank you very much for your cooperation and to hear whether the rapporteur does not agree that in future we will have to spend even more money on and actually invest in culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218161341	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218161342	Thank you for the fine words, and yes, to such an extent. We actually thought it was important to call this what it is, so it is to stop savings; it is not a massive investment. We were all sitting there a little bit, saying per. Automatically, you do that when you sit and make a bill: we invest in it, we invest in it. But that's not what we're doing. We have some savings removed, while at the same time we get some extra money for Copenhagen Phil, for the entertainment orchestra. These are two really good places where you really needed it. And we must start to invest in our cultural life in the future. For us, culture is also part of the welfare society we are. It helps define us, it helps shape us, and it helps push us as a society. And that's why it's so important that we get invested in art and culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218161427	Mrs Mai Villadsen will be given the floor again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218161430	Thank you. I agree with the rapporteur in his fine words. And I also believe that culture represents a value that can not only be measured in a spreadsheet over in the Ministry of Finance, but is something that creates cohesion in our society. So I would just like to sign and say that I look forward to seeing together what areas we really need to prioritise and invest in again.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218161453	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218161454	In fact, I think that what has been quite positive here after the elections is that I have heard the same tones from many parties, that is to say you could see that you have actually been running too long with savings. And I think that one of the places we should look at it in particular is in relation to support for performers and creative artists. So how do we get the art out throughout the country and allow artists to work throughout the country? This is one of the things we would like to strengthen, among other things. This is the first time that the European Parliament has been given the opportunity to express its views on this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218161533	Before I give the floor to Mrs Mette Abildgaard, I would just like to say that I know that Members talk quietly with each other, but when many talk quietly with each other, it is disturbing for the rapporteur, and I am certainly sure that the wise words of the rapporteur are not heard. Mrs Mette Abildgaard from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218161558	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. I just have to say that I can understand if the rapporteur really needs Christmas vacation and is getting a little tired. And I can actually understand if the rest of the Green opposition politicians feel that way. To be quite honest, it has to be said that the draft budget from the government was extremely disappointing in the green area. The rapporteur has, of course, highlighted some of the greens that came into the Finance Act, which succeeded because the rapporteur and other green rapporteurs had it fought into the money for untouched forests, money for strengthening the Climate Council, etc. But there was not a penny for these initiatives in the draft. The Danish Nature Conservation Association issued a press release in which they wrote: "The government has forgotten nature." These are big words; they are a craziest criticism. So I would like to ask the rapporteur whether it has actually been a surprise how extremely unambitious the social democracy has been in the green area in the draft budget they have presented, but also in the context of the preliminary negotiations that were, on a climate bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218161709	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218161710	As I started my speech by saying, it's usually serious that I raise my eyebrows when I talk to someone. And that was at first reading. I didn't think the draft was good enough at all. And I actually think a little, as the Danish Nature Conservation Association said, that one had forgotten it; that one had simply forgotten the green agenda in earnest in one's play. I hope that will not happen again, because I think that is actually the right direction. These are good steps we are taking in the green area too, with the Climate Act, which we have worked very closely and well with the Conservatives too.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218161742	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218161743	Thank you for the honesty about that. I must also admit that I have personally been quite shocked by how low ambitions have been in the green area. And that you have had to be drawn as much to the trough as you have had to, I think it is really a pity for the green area. Now we are facing a year in which climate action plans are to be drawn up. So it is there that action must be taken behind words, and we cannot just get by with some fine wordings and objectives in the future. I would like to ask: what will the alternative do there to ensure that it is delivered and that we are prepared to give it financial priority when we are not allowed to take money from the room for green conversion?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218161819	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218161820	Fortunately, with the Climate Act, which almost all parties in this Parliament are behind, we have ensured that action is at the top of the agenda, regardless of which government there is. There must be action, and we are going to bid. We are not afraid to say: Well we need taxes for this; we need to start looking at our lives all around. We are not afraid to say: the climate crisis requires changes from all of us. And we are going to beat the table very hard in relation to it in these negotiations, because these are important steps we need to take with the action plans. And I am sure that the government with the Climate Act knows very well that this is serious.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218161901	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Rasmus Nordqvist from the Alternative. No one else has signed up for comments or questions. That's why we welcome New Citizens, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218161914	This is a deeply misguided fox-red bill. It makes it more expensive to be a Dane. It makes business more expensive and makes us all poorer. I and New Citizens will never support that. I'm done.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218161935	Excuse me, rapporteur. It was not a joke that I recommended that conversations be held anywhere other than in the Assembly. It is also for the sake of the television viewers, for the sake of those who want to hear what the rapporteur says and for the sake of the rapporteur. So I hope that will be taken into account. The rapporteur is then given the floor again.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218161955	I'm done.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218162002	Mrs Krarup wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218162005	It wasn't a joke that the speech was over. I would like to ask what the position of the new citizens is on the repatriation scheme. With this unfortunate Finance Act, there are more strangers coming to Denmark. There are several people from Muslim countries who will have the opportunity to stay in the country for longer, because the repatriation scheme negotiated last year by the Danish People's Party is now being broken, and it is very, very sad. However, we have another system which, after all, still works away where people can be repatriated by giving them money that they can use to establish themselves in their home countries. In the Danish People's Party we are willing to use this kind of peaceful means to make Denmark more Danish and less Muslim. Why is it New Citizen doesn't want it? Is it because money is valued more than freeing Denmark from Islamic influence?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218162106	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218162109	It should be borne in mind that the mistakes made have been made because the previous government, with the support of DF, has not introduced a full asylum freeze. If it had been introduced, there would be no more. This is the first part; you try to limit the damage. After that, people will have to be sent back home, and it is quite simple that if you cannot support yourself, you will have to leave the country. Then you don't have to send money with people home.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218162140	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218162142	If and if and if! But now we have a situation that looks like the people who sit in New Citizens, who have been supporting the Conservative People's Party for many years, have been careful to ensure that it was just as it was. But in this situation, New Citizens will not make the small sensible, pragmatic steps that can be taken to make Denmark less Muslim. That's a hole in the head.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218162206	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218162208	I think it's a hole in the head to give people money in their pockets to go home to a country that's safe and where they come from. I find it deeply problematic to give people money. They've come here. We have given them security while there was strife in their homeland. Now there's peace. Of course they have to go home. This arrangement means that you give them money to go home, and if they don't like being there, they can go back, and then they can come back to Denmark and a life paid by Danish taxpayers. No, it's just a hole in the head, and it's disrespectful to all the Danes who go to work day in and day out.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218162243	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218162246	I would just like to ask why the rapporteur has chosen not to write a speech and whether there is a deeper reason why the rapporteur simply stands up and says that it is a fox-red financial law, and not more than that. It might be interesting to hear which elements would be rolled back with the mandates of New Citizens and which elements would continue to be supported. So it's really just a question because of curiosity: What is the reason why you wouldn't give a speech?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218162311	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218162312	Now it is not unusual for me not to write down my speeches; I usually never do that, so there is nothing unusual about that. I think I've said what I think about this Finance Act. If there is anything specific that the rapporteur would like to ask me, in relation to the Finance Act, she is very, very welcome to ask some questions. After all, we have an hour and you are welcome to ask some questions about exactly what you want.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218162328	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218162332	I did not ask why the rapporteur had not written a speech, I asked why a speech was not made, and I did not really get an answer to that. I just find it strange that when you have fought so hard to be represented in the Folketing, you do not use a debate to present your party's views. But fine, so let me hear: does New Citizens also support the total abolition of all generational tax, as we do in the Conservative People's Party, and can we count on support for it if there is a bourgeois majority at some point?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218162359	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218162401	Now I actually made a long speech to the rapporteur for the first reading of the draft Finance Act, where we just explained everything New Citizens think is good and what is bad about this Finance Act. So I have explained that. As far as inheritance taxation is concerned, yes, we will completely eliminate both the taxation of generational change, but also the inheritance tax. We hope that both the Conservatives, the Left and the DF will support this.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218162425	Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. We need to move on to the Liberal Alliance, sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218162435	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance will vote against this draft budget. It's unlikely to be bad. At a time when the Danish economy is going well, the Danish Parliament's red parties have succeeded in knitting together a financial law that makes everyone poorer! Managers are getting poorer, engineers are getting poorer, machine masters are getting poorer and machine workers are getting poorer. The canteen staff are getting poorer, the cleaning workers are getting poorer. People's pensions are becoming poorer, the recipients of cash benefits are becoming poorer. Everyone gets poorer. No matter which income group they come from, they will have less money to spend by 2020 than they had in 2019, because of this Finance Act that red block has made. The richest 10%. It is not a question of the people getting away with the cheapest of all. They're only gonna lose 0.3%. of their disposable income due to the Red Finance Act. Hardest hits are those who have an income of about DKK 15,000. a month. They're losing 0.7%. of their disposable income. But all income groups without exception will have to manage for less money by 2020 because of the financial law agreed between Social Democracy, Radicals, SF, Enhedslisten and the Alternative. The Ministry of Finance has calculated that. All the Finance Parties said in the election campaign that there was poverty in Denmark, and they wanted to ensure that there was less poverty. But now they have made a financial law that takes more money from everyone, even from those who the red parties in the election campaign claimed to be poor. Economic inequality is actually increasing as a result of the Finance Act, but it is not important when it is the reds who make it. This is what Enhedslisten himself believes, which will no longer hang in decimal places. Decimals are only important to the Enhedslisten when the government is bourgeois. And according to Enhedslisten, the poor are no more poor than they can put some more tax dollars in the treasury. Nobody is so poor that they cannot afford to pay anything more in tax on their cigarettes, says Mrs Pernille Skipper and the rest of the Enhedslisten now. The government defends itself by employing more people in the public sector. That is welfare, says the Minister for Finance and the Financial Rapporteur, Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen. So we have to understand that when the Social Democrats and the other red parties in the election campaign claimed that there was poverty in Denmark and that they wanted to do something about it, it was not about there being families who had too little money available for rent, food, clothing and other private expenses, no, it was about the lack of educators in kindergarten and savings in universities. Therefore, you can take money from people who you claim to be poor if you only use the money to hire more people in the public sector. It is undoubtedly an alternative form of poverty reduction, if you are to say so nicely. The more honest version is that it is manipulation and political deception. The red majority of the Folketing went to the polls for the elimination of a poverty that was claimed to exist. But on the first occasion, the 2020 Finance Act, you do exactly the opposite. The alleged poverty is being increased by reducing the disposable income of the groups claimed to be poor. With us in the Liberal Alliance, we have never really cared much about whether some have much money and others less. As long as people have come honest to their income and, at the same time, there is a surplus to provide an honest life for those who cannot fend for themselves, we are happy. However, we do not believe that people should pay excessively high taxes, even on their vices. Loads we all have: Some smoke, others drink; some eat a lot of chocolate, others eat many fries; some work so hard that they get sick of it; others get sick of sitting too much on their couch. But smoking is the only cargo that now has to be taxed even more by means of the Finance Act. From New Year's, the price of a pack of cigarettes will rise to 55 DKK. Then they can learn it in social class 5! You should drink rosé instead. Here's the tax on a bottle under half the tax on a package of Prince. Some loads are both smoker and owner of an employer's mobile phone, you are hit twice hard. Before the election, the Danish Parliament's blue parties found the money to abolish the telephone tax, but the red parties don't bother, so back with the tax. In a year's time, there will probably be a new tax on the value of safety shoes, screen glasses and employer-paid photocopies of confirmation songs. The family-owned companies also have to go to their pockets. When they are handed over from one generation in the family to the next, the residence and gift fees are raised from 6%. 15%. This means that the young generation is forced to withdraw much more money from the company to pay the tax. It is hard to believe that any politician really believes that it is good for the Danish economy to deprive the family-owned companies of a lot of money, which then cannot be used for investment in production and new jobs. The motivation to do so seems to be quite different: you want to tell the voters that there is a contradiction between what is good for society as a whole and what is good for the family-owned companies. How many times have we heard the chief ideologist of the red parties, sir? Pelle Dragsted, speak latrinaire about people who, according to him, were born with a golden spoon in a place that one cannot pronounce here from the Speaker's Chair of the Folketing? That is how the ruling majority of this Parliament speaks in order to incite to indissolubity and to create artificial contradictions between people in this society and in an attempt to score electoral profits to assert themselves as advocates of the groups that are most numerous. But red block doesn't get enough money by raising taxes and taxes. Even though we are far from achieving all the expensive promises made by the election campaign, public expenditure is still increasing so much that the budget law must also budget with a deficit of almost 6 billion. kr. Here this year, in 2019, a public finance surplus of as much as 60 billion is expected. kr., but by 2020 we will have to debt the younger generations again according to the Finance Act. It is not just about changing economic conditions and random economic fluctuations, no, the surplus this year, in 2019, is a result of the fact that the structures of Danish society make the public funds run around, so that the public debt can be repaid. Conversely, the 2020 Finance Act, where the deficit is not only cyclical but also structural, will result from the fact that expenditure and revenue across the economic cycle are not comparable. One would think that in these years we could pay back public debt. If we are going to run with deficits when things are going as well as they are now, will we ever be able to deliver a society to the next generation without an accompanying debt? The Finance Act spends more money than has ever been spent in the public sector in Denmark. Yet it makes all Danes poorer. The Finance Act is made in a time of good work in Danish economy. Nevertheless, it is budgeting with a deficit of 6 billion. kr. We cannot vote in favour of this draft budget and at the same time call ourselves a responsible party. Liberal Alliance votes against.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218163251	There are, for the time being, two inscribed for short remarks. The first is sir. Rasmus Jarlov of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218163258	Thank you. I would like to ask if the Liberal Alliance could learn anything from the left. Now it is not to step around in it, but I am thinking of how to deal with the situation when you have come to make ultimate demands that you then end up not having met. The Liberal Alliance made the ultimate demand a few years ago that the top tax should be lowered. LA felt bound by his word and could not give in, and it almost ended up with the bourgeois government having to resign. The Enhedslisten and Radicals have made ultimate demands on this year's Finance Act. The Unity List demanded that inequality should fall, and Radicals demanded that labour supply be increased and neither were met. In this situation, however, the two parties have not stuck to such an old-fashioned, bourgeois view that one is bound by one's word and that one must stand by what one has said to the electorate. They've just run away from their word and vows, and it doesn't really seem to have cost them anything. So the question is, could not the Liberal Alliance learn from this rather more progressive approach to political promises and bravery?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218163403	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218163404	You can learn from a lot. First of all, you can also learn from Danish politics that if you don't fight at all, you get nothing. We fought a lot, and we got something, but we didn't get everything. Some say they fight smarter, but the experience we had in the last parliamentary term was that they didn't fight at all. The tax cuts that came in the last parliamentary term came thanks to the Liberal Alliance, so we have got something out of fighting really hard, although we could have got more if we had been luckier with our strategy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218163437	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218163438	Well, I think it's okay, but as I said, it wasn't to drive so much around in the dispute (Ole Birk Olesen No, then we believe it). We are on the same team when it comes to lowering the tax, and we fully agree that we must keep on fighting. The question was actually a little more about how the Liberal Alliance looks at the whole show that has been going on with that one, for example. go out and create increased inequality, even if you have promised the opposite. Does the Liberal Alliance share my view that the electorate has been promised something that is not being lived up to?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218163514	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218163515	Yes, we certainly do. And what could be seen from our parliamentary term last time, when we were in government some of the time, was that we took practically every step in the right direction; we did not take any steps in the wrong direction. We didn't go to the polls for taxes to go down, and then we ended up raising them. On the left, however, the choice has been made that there should be more money for those who have the least money in society, and what you do with this finance law is exactly the opposite, because you make sure they have less money.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218163553	Sir. Bjørn Brandenborg has asked for the floor for a question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218163557	Thanks for the speech. I will do just as the previous one asks and start by rewinding the time back to the last period of government, when there was one subject that filled more than anything else, namely the debate on top tax. On the one hand, the Liberal Alliance, which felt that it should be abolished at all costs, or at least should be reduced by at least five percentage points, stood on the other hand the Danish People's Party and said that they would not be involved in this. In the end, the demand for a ministerial car was exchanged, and the rapporteur did so too and agreed that this requirement could be postponed. Now there's a new situation. There has been a new Parliament, a new government, and the Liberal Alliance has also been given a new President. I would therefore like to ask the rapporteur whether it is still the policy of the Liberal Alliance that the top tax should be abolished.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218163644	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218163645	Yeah, it's still gone. Liberal Alliance policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218163650	Sir. Bjørn Brandenborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218163652	Thank you. I guess I kind of figured it was. I'll just think about something. When I look around the Parliamentary Chamber today, I guess three Prime Minister candidates are still running for office, and none of them are in favour of abolishing or lowering the top tax. I would therefore like to ask the rapporteur whether he would like to point out a candidate for Prime Minister who does not want the top tax to be abolished.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218163714	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218163715	So, in the 2015 elections, we were the only party to vote for the reduction of vehicle registration fees, and we managed to do so three times during the parliamentary term, even though there were no other parties to vote on it. So, in the course of the negotiations that are in connection with the Finance Act and other things, you can get other parties to do something, even if it is not part of their business. On the other hand, it is strange that, when you have a red majority in the Folketing, who has elected that people who have low incomes should have more money, you do exactly the opposite, even if you have obtained the majority after the elections. We are making sure that they get less money, as we can see from the figures published by the Ministry of Finance, regardless of the fact that the Socialist questioner is shaking his head.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218163807	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218163808	I think it is perhaps appropriate to ask whether the rapporteur could confirm that it was the Socialist Government that was behind the latest top tax reliefs that we have received, together with the SF and Radicals and the Enhedslisten, which thus held hands under a government that lifted the top tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218163825	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218163826	Yeah, sometimes you're in that weird situation. 'Only Nixon could go to China', it was said, and one must be extremely red and in government to lower the top tax, for then one has an opposition that does not scream about social mass graves etc. It is remarkable, but most remarkable, that a party such as the Radicals wants to reward opposition behaviour by giving the Prime Minister's post to a party which is clearly quite different, depending on whether it is in opposition or in government.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218163902	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen does not want to speak again, so we move on to Mr Boje Mathiesen. René Christensen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218163909	Thank you. I stand up because we heard the Socialist rapporteur answer questions about top tax reliefs before. This is very interesting, because the 2020 Finance Act actually changes the top tax limit. It is the case that the top tax limit goes from 513,000 kroner. for 531,000 kroner. I assume that the rapporteur welcomes this, but it is, after all, social democratic policy that is now being implemented with the financial law that dates from 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218163938	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218163939	That is absolutely right. When Mrs. Helle Thorning-Schmidt was still Prime Minister and Mr. Bjarne Corydon was Minister of Finance, the government provided a tax reform that raises the limit on when to pay top tax. It is then phased in over a few years, and now we have reached the year 2020, and there will be another phase-in of the plan that was made then and that we can support, because it is sensible that more people get a lower tax on the last earned crown. I have given up trying to find out why the Socialists sometimes think things are different. One minute you can do one, and then it is really good and sensible policy, and the other minute, if others do the same, it is the worst thing you can imagine in the whole world. I can't deal with the infidelity that lies in it. But that is the case, and the electorate has made them Prime Minister's Party, and that must be respected.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218164042	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218164045	Thank you for your answer. I also agree that this is the way it is. Can the rapporteur not also confirm that the way in which it was financed at the time was that transfer income, i.e. the income of those with the lowest incomes, should not be indexed ■ it is transfer income such as cash benefits and sickness benefits ■ thus that they were eroded in relation to their purchasing power, because they then chose among other things. To raise the top tax line? Can the rapporteur confirm that this was the source of funding? It is the case that when you make finance law, you can look backwards there is something you want to continue with, or is there something you want to change? That is the way it is when you make the Finance Act; then you can look at what is on the basis, and then you can change it if you want.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218164123	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218164124	Yes, you can. But what was done at the time must also be regarded today by the Socialists as a good idea. What they did was that they said that where there were some transfer incomes which almost increased with wage developments in society, they were set to rise only with the price increases in society. Thus there was a slight increase in the rate of increase, so you could still buy the same goods away but not buy more goods, as had been the habit so far. I think that was a very sensible thing too, but it was something that the Socialists had rejected earlier when there was a bourgeois government and where they had said that it was very bad, but then they did it themselves when they came into government.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218164203	Thank you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen from the Liberal Alliance, and then it's Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam from Siumut.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218164223	Thank you for the floor. In 2019 a lot has happened. We also have a new government, even a social democratic government, and a social democratic prime minister. The best thing, if I may say for myself what has happened this year, is that Siumut has returned so quickly to Parliament. Let me make it clear that Siumut has come into the Folketing to help the Greenlandic people, also to pass on information, and to strengthen the Danish responsibilities that still exist in Greenland. Siumut in the Danish Parliament has also been focused on this year, also with regard to the financial law negotiations. We would also like to thank you very much for your good cooperation with the government and the Social Democratic Party, to which we are a sister party, but we would also like to thank the other parties with whom we have cooperated in this Chamber and all the colleagues who are here this evening because we have had a very good dialogue and discussion in the Chamber for the first six months of our visit. It has been important for me to work for the well-being of the Greenlandic people, so that the Greenlandic people can also feel that there is a difference. We have also fought for the Danish responsibilities, including justice, which we have secured in the Finance Act almost 50 million. kr. over the next four years. In the area of children, we have also received support from the Danish state of 80 million. kr., so that exposed children and young people get the boost and support at home that is needed. We see this in Siumut in the Folketing as a very positive move. We also think it important to pass on the information that it is not only on the shoulders of the two Greenlandic mandates to be responsible for the 36 responsibilities that the Danish state now also has for Greenland, among other things. The area of justice, for which we have fought particularly hard this year, but also very many areas for which it is important that we all take responsibility, because it is something that affects all sections of the population, all the Danish citizens we have in Greenland. But I am also pleased that it can be seen that more attention has recently been paid to Greenland and the Danish responsibilities for Greenland. Perhaps it is also because of the major geopolitical initiatives that have been taken, among others. U.S.A. But it also shows that you are now prepared not only to have the responsibility of Greenlandic responsibilities on paper, but that the Danish Parliament and the Danish Government are now willing to take real responsibility in closer cooperation with Greenland, as this is where you best come out with solutions, and it actually helps to bring about improvements. I would also like to say that we must move forward with those responsibilities, since it is not only the two members of Greenland's parliament who have to communicate and inform. We need to go further and carefully into the various responsibilities, since they have so much, because although they are 36 responsibilities, there are a great many legislations behind what 2 members of parliament alone should not add shoulders, because for many, many years they have also tried to make individual legislative proposals and amendments, but they cannot be alone because we are 179 seats in here and not only two Greenlandic members are responsible for the responsibilities we have with regard to the Danish citizens we have in Greenland. I would just like to thank you very much for this year too. I look forward very much to the coming year, especially because I can see that the commitment in Greenland is getting stronger. I hope I have helped to strengthen knowledge and also commitment in Greenland, as we can thus also help to strengthen the population here. After all, it is in everyone's interest to strengthen the people for whom we are responsible. It is, of course, empowerment that you want to give, and I also believe that if we keep on doing that and the interest does not fall after a year or two, we can achieve much more together than we could ever have done separately. I look forward to Christmas in Greenland. I can't wait to get back to the northern lights. It has also been important for me to be in here as a representative of Siumut, as a representative of Greenland, as much has happened for Greenland's responsibilities in this year's Finance Act. I hope that it will not end after the next few years, for example. State employees, regardless of their geographical location, must have equal conditions on the basis of the legislation that they also have for Danish government employees in Denmark. We come together, I hope, to fight harder for that. I would just like to thank you for your cooperation, and I expect and look forward to even better cooperation as early as 2020. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218164852	There's one question. Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218164857	Thank you very much for a good speech. I always find it a pleasure to see when Greenlandic MPs engage in the work of the Folketing and make the most of it for the benefit of Greenland. I would really like to ask just quite openly: is there something that the Danish Government is not doing good enough and can do better for Greenland? Are there any requests? Are there any areas where you feel poorly represented or where the government could do more to help?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218164932	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218164933	Thank you for the question. At least I think it is important to focus on where we have reached. Because if we look at some of the legislation that has been made in the 1970s, you can also see that it has been very updated in relation to how it is in Denmark, but it has not yet been updated when you look at how it is in Greenland. And this is still for matters of responsibility that you have in Denmark. However, it is also important here that we are all responsible for legislation and processes. It is the Danish state that is responsible for it, and the Danish state is also represented both by the government, but also by us MPs. As far as I can tell, for example, Cooperation in the field of foreign policy has been greatly strengthened in recent times, when the Greenland Government has said that, of course, there are still challenges and that it still needs to be improved, but it seems to be on the right track. That is why I say that I hope we can continue in this direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218165037	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218165038	Well, I hope so, too. The reason I ask is that I think it is important that we keep ensuring that the Kingdom community is of benefit to all parties, and therefore also that if there is something that the Government or the Danish Parliament can do that is absolutely right, the Danish Parliament is also responsible for a lot of issues relating to Greenland, as much as it concerns Denmark. Then I just want to wish you a merry Christmas. It is always a great pleasure to wish you a happy Christmas to a Greenlandic representative who is going home for real Christmas weather.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218165111	Then we thank the rapporteur, Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam. Then we're going to the Samband Party's, sir. Edmund Joensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218165137	Thank you, sir. President. Denmark's high ambitions in the climate area benefit the whole Kingdom community. This is also seen in the Finance Act, which we are discussing today. The government has responded to our whole desire to invest in marine research in the North Atlantic, so we are very pleased with the result. The ocean currents in the North Atlantic are the artery of our climate system. No sea area in the world has such high temperatures as close to the poles as the North Atlantic. This is where the warm and cold ocean currents meet, and this is also where we can learn more about how the ocean currents affect the climate, our ecosystem and our fish stocks. Last week, for example, we were told that the ice in Greenland melts much, much faster than expected. It really gives food for thought. A strengthened research alliance in the Danish Empire gives us a unique opportunity to improve our knowledge of a possible weakening of ocean currents, an increase in sea temperatures, an impact on marine ecosystems, changes in fish stocks and the supply of man-made CO2 Our universities and researchers link close scientific ties, and it is important that research is a natural part of the cooperation between the Faroe Islands, Denmark and Greenland. I would like to sign for the government's support to continue and scale up the joint research between the Faroe Islands, Denmark and Greenland, which was launched by the Left Government in 2007. I would like to thank the Minister for Finance and the Government for giving priority to the project of 25.5 million. kr. Over four years, money that benefits all of us and has been warmly received in the research environment. When we talk about the future, the ambition is that we establish a permanent marine research centre in the Faroe Islands. The islands are located perfectly on the doorstep, where the flow of hot Atlantic water and cold seawater from the Arctic meets. 90% of these water masses pass through the Faroe Islands. With the government's prioritization of marine research in the North Atlantic, we have come a good deal closer to the goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218165524	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218165525	Thanks for a good speech. I would like to ask Mr. Edmund Joensen, how he views infrastructure in connection with the Huawei discussion, i.e. such a telecommunications equipment. Is it security policy, or is it purely business policy in the Faroe Islands? I ask, of course, because the question of whether to make a screening of which investors are buying infrastructure has been raised. So perhaps I would like to hear a Faroese view on that, just to get a perspective on whether Mr. Edmund Joensen believes that it would be reasonable to have a screening within the Kingdom community of this kind of investment.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218165613	Sir. Edmund Joensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218165613-2	Thank you. The action itself to buy equipment for telecommunications is a Faroese matter, but the security policy if security issues are included in procurement of any kind is a common matter that lies in Denmark. It's clear. Then I am well aware that we can call it a grey area which we must discuss and which we must have a good talk about among both sides. I assume that the national government and the government will take care of that and that they will have that talk about the grey zone if there is a grey area and make the right decisions. After all, it is they who are responsible for security policy that have all the tools to assess that matter, i.e. whether it is a security issue or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218165724	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218165725	Thank you for that answer. How does Mr. Edmund Joensen at the risk of letting such a large Chinese company, which seems to have quite close ties with the Chinese state, take over telecommunications infrastructure or at least control telecommunications infrastructure in the Faroe Islands? Is it a challenge, or is it completely unproblematic?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218165759	Sir. Edmund Joensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218165800	Of course, that's hard for me to say. The Faroe Islands already have equipment from this company. So I have to leave it to those who know it and those who are responsible for our security policy to assess it and have the equipment to assess whether it is safe or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218165835	Thank you, sir. Edmund Joensen of the Samband Party. While we're waiting for Mr. Simpson... Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille, who is a member outside the groups, I can inform the House that after consultation, consultation with the Minister for Finance, we have decided that we are going through without a meal break, as we do not expect it to be very late. So the starting point is both vote and debate with the Minister for Finance without a meal break. Then I shall give the floor to Mr Seligman. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille. Ten minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218165913	Thank you. You have to start by saying something good. This is probably the most positive approach, and perhaps we might need it once in a while, because such a debate on finance law is always very ritual in the sense that those who have the power say that it is all good and those who do not have it say that it is all bad, and then it is just like going through, and then it goes on for a few hours, and then we vote. But something good is that more attention has been paid to climate, something good is that some of these tax reductions for electric cars are being continued, something good is that the education ceiling is being abolished, and something good is that people who are refugees and become immigrants are being seen to a greater extent as a gift, that is to say, working etc. I guess that's good. Then you could also choose a different approach. One might say that there are now tax increases in the Finance Act, but one might also say that there have been fine tax cuts in recent years and that there are small tax increases this year, if you look at it a little more overall, because if you look at it in relation to the large budget, it is still on the extremely marginals. One could, of course, be annoyed that there has not been such a focus on labour supply, but I will come back to that later. Then, of course, there is the issue of inequality. I hardly know how to react to it. Well, well, well. One can understand that when blue governments make changes to the Gini coefficient of 0,01, it is a very big and important subject, and when red governments do the same or worse, it doesn't matter, because then you have to look at how it works for ordinary people. This is, in fact, a fine perspective, and I only hope that we have a handshake that we will see it that way next time a bourgeois government comes along, because then we will be spared too much. For my part, I must say that I have spent a great many hours in the Ministry of Finance during the last government discussing with both the Finance Minister and others whether proposals theoretically changed the inequality, without it having any practical significance in reality. But that was very crucial for the negotiations. So the new thing about this financial law could be that we now agree that we are not going to let these sorts of details shake us off. I said, when I was Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior, that debates on economic inequality in Denmark do not interest me, because it is basically so much out on the margins that we are discussing that it has no meaning, and I have now got the blue stamp not only by the Radicals but also by the Social Democrats, the SF, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, and what greater victory can be achieved as a former minister than that. We could then also look at the issue of growth, because that is what I think is at the heart of the debate we should have on the Finance Act. After all, the Minister for Finance has just made a new economic statement in which growth is downgraded, and it can be seen that it will be lower in the years to come than it has been in recent years, and the international economic situation is blamed, and I think that is fair enough. On the other hand, what is not fair to the Danes is that no initiatives are taken to mitigate what is happening in the context of the international economic situation. I have previously asked the Minister for Finance here in Parliament whether he had anything on fiscal policy, economic policy, tax policy, etc. that could do something to get the wheels moving, improve the competitiveness of Danish companies, ensure that growth was still higher. You don't plan on doing that. There was talk of education and climate policy instead of when I asked, and it is fair that different priorities should be given, but that is not fair to the Danes. There is a need for attention to be paid to the revival of growth. I have to say that, when I look at it, what the economic statement says is right: there is brexit, there are trade wars, there are many international things that make us not have the same prospects of growth. What does it do? This means that we do not have the same opportunities in terms of good education, the same opportunities for good health, the same opportunities for families to adjust their lives as they would like to do in the future. So, at the end of the good times, we should really make sure that the reform work gets under way again. Some people think that we need a period of reform, but I would like to see it a little different and say that, unfortunately, we are four years away in a reform drought which lasted the whole of the last parliamentary term, which I must admit as a former member of a government, a drought of reform that ran throughout the last parliamentary term and, unfortunately, seems to be going on now. Thus we forget one of the most important lessons we have if we look at economic policy since the oil crises and up to today, and that is that the smartest thing is to make the reforms while things are going well, instead of waiting until things go badly. I have to say that it is probably not all of them who will be happy to be mentioned that we need a Nyrup, a Lykketoft, a Helle Thorning-Schmidt, a Corydon, yes, a Mrs Marianne Jelved to make sure that something happens on the reform agenda in Denmark. That is where one of my former parties, the Radical Left, has surprised me a little. The Radical Left is such a reflection of the Danish People's Party. While in the blue block it is the Danish People's Party that ensures that economic policy does not become too blue, it is the task of the Radical Left in the red block to ensure that economic policy does not become too red. Now I have seen that my former party colleagues are delighted that there has been a new direction in Danish politics. That is true, and that is true, for example. I am glad that this is partly true in the area of immigration, and I am glad that some of this is also true, but in economic policy it is a matter of hanging a little more in the brake than was done before. After all, a new direction has not really started, because the direction that has unfortunately been established over the last few years is that we have had a drought of reform. I thought that now the sun should shine again over the economic reforms, we should again focus on how the business community could get better conditions, how the work supply could be increased, how we could make Denmark richer. I thought we should now look to the future. But we did not have to do so in relation to economic policy yet. We can hope for the next financial laws, but it is not this one that has revealed how to get economic reforms moving in the new direction. If we don't, what happens? Then there is the fact that we are getting a little faster out of the boom, we are getting a little harder out of the boom than we would otherwise have done, and when we are discussing the Finance Act, this is where we should take responsibility. I think it is nice to hear that there are people who are happy that something better is happening in the cultural field, that something better is happening in the field of education and that something better is happening in a third area, and I think that is a good thing too. But we have to make sure that we look a little further ahead than just what happens next year. It is as if it is a debate that is completely absent from the Danish Parliament and has been so in recent years. Therefore, my hope will be that when we realise the importance of these things, when we realise what economic realities are before we get out of the boom, and before we get into the situation that the reforms that we are going to make with certainty no matter what are going to work harder for ordinary Danes. It actually matters to people whether they have a job or not, it matters to people what opportunities they have in their lives, and it will also mean something, in relation to what it is for a service we can offer from the Danish state in relation to education, in relation to health, in relation to social security networks. You can't spend the money quickly now and then hope that they'll be there later. It is better to ensure that they are there in the future too. But old child learning says that responsible parties vote for the Finance Act, so I will do that, of course I do, but I think it would have been a little more effort to ensure that Danish finances are safeguarded in the future, even though there may be praise in other areas, including the green one. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218170753	Thank you, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille. No one has signed up to comments or questions, and that is why I shall now give the floor to the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218170811	Thank you for that, and thank you for what has probably been one of the most peaceful debates in the memory of a man, and perhaps it will end up being one of the shortest. Allow me to take this as an expression of the fact that it is probably not such a bad financial law we have made. It is also clear that this is a good opportunity to let Christmas peace sink if anyone wants to, even though I am not so naive that I do not think there will be a few teasings along the way that will probably try to say that this financial law could have been much better. I also think, to begin with, to be quite frank, I would say that this financial law does not solve everything. It is not a financial law that can be said that we are now done with our work, but it is a financial law where we have really begun. For approx. Six months ago, the Danes chose a new direction for Denmark with a new political majority, and they gave us a new government, which has had a strong mandate in the back. We promised each other that we would take the lead in the fight against the climate crisis, that we would strengthen our welfare, that we would invest in education. We are so committed to fulfilling those promises today. In fact, there is a great deal we can do together when we set out to make a new direction for Denmark. With the financial law agreement that we have ahead of us, we ensure that we can develop our welfare society instead of cutting back. We ensure a thousand more nurses, minimum standards in crèches and kindergartens, a significant boost to our primary school, a strengthened effort for the most vulnerable in our society. And we go further than that, because we are also investing with the municipal and regional agreements we have made, widely in our welfare for the benefit of our children, for the benefit of our elderly, for the benefit of the health care that is so important to all of us. We are also addressing our ambitions with regard to climate and environmental policy, because we want to ensure a green transition and a sustainable future for our children and for our grandchildren with money for green research, a green future fund and more untouched nature. I would like to take this opportunity today to thank the parties with which the government has made its financial agreement for making it a better agreement than it was when we put forward our proposal. I believe it is stronger, both in terms of welfare and in terms of the green, than what the government presented. And it is really Danish folk rule at its best. We had then also set aside a negotiating reserve because we were well aware that there were some more things we would like to do together. This was true in relation to our children, in relation to our elderly, in relation to our health and in relation to the green agenda. But there is no doubt that the cooperation we have had with the Radical Left, with the SF, with the Enhedslisten and with the alternative is the prerequisite that we can now set a new direction for Denmark. I am also pleased that a number of rapporteurs from the parties that are not part of the agreement have actually praised elements in it. I think it was on the part of the Conservative rapporteur that it was said that there were indeed some good things in the agreement and others have followed up, but for various reasons one has not felt that one could be fully on board. But just as together we have the parties behind the agreement that we are setting a new direction here, today has also illustrated that there is just as much difference between how you see Danish politics in those parties that do not want this government to be responsible. I have heard that the Left, the Conservative People's Party, the Danish People's Party and Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille will vote in favour of the budget bill, while the Liberal Alliance and the New Citizens choose to vote against it. I'm sorry about the last one. I think it would have been nice if everyone had taken responsibility so that all the blue parties had been together that there was something here that, after all, when the day is over and we will finally vote on things tomorrow, where one could say: here we are on the goal of Denmark having a financial law. However, I would also like to make a few comments on some of the speeches that have been made. The rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen, found that things are going well in Denmark. I fully agree with that, and I would like to join the rapporteur in welcoming it. That's why I didn't quite understand the following black vision that with this finance law we make Denmark poorer. I have heard that this is something that could, after all, be agreed among the blue parties today should be the label one would like to put on this financial law. I just have to say that this financial law makes Denmark stronger. This Finance Act makes Denmark more ready to face the future. This Finance Act makes Denmark better. Because what are we agreed on? Yes, we have agreed with the new direction that we are putting in place, that the end must be to undermine the welfare that is so incredibly important for the vast majority of Danes. We first said to each other with the municipal and regional agreements: when there are more children and when there are more older people and that is really good and nice, then there is no point in spending money only for one child or the elderly and leaving the other behind. That is why, with our agreements with the municipalities and the regions, we have actually chosen a completely different path: to say that the money must follow. This is really, really important, because it provides an opportunity for you to start building up in municipalities and regions where you have had to tear down for too many years. Again, I do not claim to solve all problems in Danish society, but I say very clearly that here we are setting a new direction for the benefit of Denmark and for the benefit of welfare. We do the same when it comes to our education. We invest massively in primary school. We go in and say that our upper secondary education would also like to give a boost. We are going in and saying that the savings made on our education, including higher education, must be stopped. We are also saying that the training ceiling which many people have been concerned about and seen as an obstacle to their being able to get the training that was right for them had to be removed. That is why I must say today to the rapporteur of the Left that what I am most puzzled about is that the clear promise made by the Left to the Danes in the last election campaign, namely that the education ceiling would be removed if you were given responsibility, you run from today. We even put the ball on the penalty spot. There's a free target. You just had to say, "Yes, we want to do that." But when it came down to it, the Left wouldn't anyway. I am concerned that this is not the last time in this parliamentary term that we are going to see that the Left is running out of the electoral vows, because you can only spend the money once. If you want to spend the money both on tax cuts and on welfare, you run out, and then you have to try to say: now you have to wait for our amendments and see what exactly we mean. I do not think that is good enough from the largest opposition party. On the other hand, I hope that, over the coming months and years, we will have very good cooperation with the Left on a number of points, and I think we can have that too. Actually, I thought it was more regular and honest talk from Mr. Rasmus Jarlov of the Conservatives, who said: "Well, we really like much of what you are proposing, and we think it makes sense to strengthen the primary school, and we would also like to do so in relation to other parts of what this government has put forward, but since we do not agree with the funding, and as we well know he did not say so, but I allow myself to learn from what I heard that the money can only be used once, we are not prepared to vote for these things, because it will not be honest to do so. I think that is proper talk, although I had hoped that a different conclusion would have been reached. The Danish People's Party spoke in the rapporteur's speech from Mr. After all, René Christensen also commends the government. You signed for a cup of coffee, and I can confirm that. By the way, it was nice to have Mr. René Christensen visits; I hope I will have many other occasions to do so, because there is a good need for broad cooperation in the Danish Parliament, and the government would very much like that with the Danish People's Party. This applies both to this and to many other important issues. But one of the places where I think Mr. René Christensen went wrong in the city, was where he said that in this government we shouldn't focus enough on the elderly. This government is deeply concerned that we ensure proper conditions for the elderly in Denmark, and we are deeply concerned about what we have seen in recent years, when in the municipality after the municipality has been saved and saved on the elderly. It is not because the mayors and municipal councillors who sit out there think it is the most fun task in the world, but because the economy that has been given has been so limited that the money has not really been kept up when, fortunately, there are more elderly people. Therefore, what is the reality of this financial law is that, in addition to what was already allocated to our elderly people, among other things. has added 125 million. kr. On top of that, in addition to it also widely and jointly, with parties in the blue block, we have made an agreement on dementia it is also important and that with the agreement we have made with the municipalities, overall we give a boost of 2.2 billion. kr., which means that you have the opportunity to provide some better conditions for our older people. The money now comes with more children and more older people, and this is important, and unfortunately it is also new, because it is not the reality that has been under the previous government under which the Danish People's Party held its hands. So I sincerely welcome the commitment of the Danish People's Party to the elderly, but it is simply not correct when you try to make it look as if this government is spending less money on the elderly than has been spent in the past. On the contrary, it is the case that we are spending more, and that is also what we need. As far as the green is concerned, I am glad that most of the parties have, in this way, invited in and said that they would like to participate. I would also like to acknowledge that the Climate Act made by the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply has taken important steps, and we must go further when we come to the climate action plans next year. But it is also important to say that this is not a task that we in the Folketing or the government can undertake alone; it is a task that we will jointly have to undertake with Danish business, with pension funds, with our educational institutions, with civil society. If we are to deliver on the very ambitious 70% reduction target. By 2030, it requires everyone to move in the same direction. That is also one of the reasons why it is so important for us here with each other to be concerned that we will have business as a partner in the coming years, otherwise we will not succeed. And I see the role of business as being to contribute all the places where you are of course involved in deriving CO2 I am so much jyde that I have the starting point that if, with the initiatives we take here and together with the business community, you can both contribute to solutions that can save our planet and at the same time make money and create jobs and growth in Danish companies, it is good. This government is really, really concerned with creating growth and development in the Danish companies. This is the whole prerequisite for Danish society to have the strength it has. It is the story of talented companies, skilled managements, skilled employees who work together every day to make things better and smarter and more efficient, but it also creates the opportunity to sell it, not only in Denmark but also outside the country's borders. It's important. Therefore, this Finance Act is also a Finance Act that helps us to strengthen Danish business, because if there is something that we have seen as a mistake under the previous government, it is, of course, that we cut so much down on the educations that have to improve the people who are going into our companies and that applies both to the young people themselves, but also to the Danish business community. And it has been criticised by the Danish business community, and now we are doing something about it. The green is a lever to create growth and jobs. And we have also chosen with this Finance Act to say to each other that there are actually areas where we may need to look at being able to take also skilled labour to Denmark, which can make sure to help Danish companies. But at the same time as we do so, we are also making a tremendous effort to combat social dumping, so that we have the strongest effort we have seen with the Finance Act that is here. Things go together. There's balance. It's thought about it, and that's the way it's supposed to be. I think this is the right way to go. "Children, children, children," said Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, and I do not think it alone is because we both will soon be helping to make it come true. I think it is because it is something that really concerns not only the SF, but hopefully the entire Folketing. How do we create the best framework for our children? Therefore, some of what I am really happy and proud of and would like to thank the SF for their contribution to the fact that, with this financial law, we are getting to grips with and improving the standards in our day institutions for the benefit of our minimum and so that we can introduce minimum standards. Here too, it is not something we can do with a fingertips; it is not something that happens overnight. But we get started and we get to the finish line, and that's the way it has to be. Another place where we really need to get started is when it comes to psychiatry. The best financial law for many years was the gunfire of Enhedslisten's rapporteur today. I think that one of the reasons why Enhedslisten looks at it that way is probably the boost we got given to the psychiatry, because Enhedslisten, if anyone, has been the banner leader for that, although all we have done here, of course, is common goods. But I also believe that anyone who has been in contact with the psychiatry that we have in Denmark, whether they themselves have needed help or have been relatives, will be able to say that there are many, many skilled and committed both doctors and nurses and other healthcare professionals, but we need so much that we can do better here. This applies to our children, it applies to our young people, and it applies to all citizens who are in contact with psychiatry. This is where we start at 600 million. kr. from next year. Again: Will it solve all problems psychiatry? No, but it's a boost that's been needed for a long time, because in psychiatry, like in the rest of health care, you run too fast. That is also what we must take seriously here. Then I heard several speakers say that the government in its draft Finance Act could have been more ambitious on the green agenda. I would say that we set out with the understanding paper that we made with the Radical Left, the SF and the Enhedslisten, a very, very strong ambition which we are now being recognised for in the world and which we have the task of making reality first and foremost ourselves. However, I would also like to thank the alternative today for being among the very first to set the ambition, and even if they were not in the understanding paper, then also for pushing for the negotiations that we have had here, so that whether it is the Climate Council or green bonds or many of the other important things that we got into the green area, the alternative can at least take its back and say that here we have been involved in delivering. I heard Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist say you're insatiable to this agenda. I can confirm that. But it's also really, really important that not only the alternative, but all parties in this Parliament are tireless in achieving the objective. And there it is really important that the Alternative and others have shown the way here, so thank you for that. I would also like to say to the Conservative People's Party, which I think is very fair and rightly thanked for, if not a long cooperation in this context, then at least good and frank cooperation: I think there are many things we will be able to do with each other over the coming months and years. I also fully agree that one of the things that is a financing element of the agreement we have made here, namely the housing and gift tax, is that we look at differently. We believe that it is reasonable from the government that the widest shoulders should also bear the greatest burdens and that there is a balance in the way we have inheritance taxes in this country. This means that we think it is sensible to roll back the relaxation that was under a previous government, as Mr. Rasmus Jarlov was part of. This does not mean that we do not want to have a dialogue with the Danish business community about this. Smart people have also been appointed to suggest how we can do this in the best possible way, so it has the least possible negative effect on Danish business. I hope we will also enter into a constructive dialogue on this, and then I will remember those of our good colleagues who, from my side of the House, are sitting over on the other side of the House, on the good words that came from both the former Minister of Taxation. Karsten Lauritzen, and from other quarters, that this is not something that will break down Danish economy. I think that was certainly right at the time, and I think that is also true today. Then there is the Liberal Alliance, which, as I understood it, thinks that this government has done very unwisely in the Finance Act. You think we spend too much money and you think we spend it wrong. After all, it is liberating that you can see that there is a difference in Danish politics, because that is quite correct. Ole Birk Olesen said that there is a difference between the present government and the previous government, as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen was part of. This government puts welfare first, and what makes us stand up in the morning and work through the day and go to bed late at night is not to look at where we can give the next great tax relief so that we can put a new trophy on the shelf. We see it as our task to fight every single day for something that may not give silver cups on the shelves, but something that gives quality of life to those who are having a hard time and to our children, to our elderly, to our health care and to our education. And there it is quite correctly observed: we want a different path than Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. In fact, I think I would say in all silence that both sides are comfortable with this, and I am glad that we have been entrusted with that responsibility. Equality has also been a major part of the discussion today, and I would just like to say that, for me, equality is not just about Gini coefficients. For me, equality is about creating a society, and that is what social democracy came into being for, and that is what we have fought our whole history through for should be the case: a welfare society in which we offer equal opportunities for children and for the rest of the population, whether you come from a home with a lot of money or from a home with small circumstances. What we do with this finance law is that we invest in our primary school, in our day care institutions, in our health service... some of the places that are most important to seeing that you have a life of security, where you can develop, and where there is also a hand that can help you when you need it. Then it is true, and I recognise it quite openly from this platform, that we are raising cigarette prices. When you look at some of the ways you do this up, you'll see that it will make some people want a little less in their pockets if they smoke than they would otherwise have. That's right, and why do we do that? Yes, we do, because we can see that, above all, our children and young people smoke too much, and that, I think, is something that we should take deeply, deeply seriously. An agreement has been reached today with good initiatives, and the government naturally welcomes the fact that we have such a good minister for health and the elderly and that there is a large majority behind it. But we must also be honest with each other and say that some of what really matters is the price, and that is why we are raising it. But we also know that this isn't black and white. There is also one side which is about the fact that if you set prices too high, there are people with small money and also people who live in abuses that will be particularly hard hit. That's why we're also trying to do this with a high increase in the first place, and then there's a little later another increase. It's an attempt to find balance. New citizens probably gave an historic short speech to the rapporteur, which could be summed up as saying that the government is wrong; something else should have been done and therefore they do not vote for the Finance Act. It was almost a longer summary than the speech itself. I'm not surprisingly not in agreement with sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, but that is the right of the New Citizen. I also hope that we can have good cooperation in many areas. I think that, in many cases, people have actually been the ones who could give praise to the government when they thought it was justified. We are happy to accept this and we would like to build on it. Then I would also like to say to Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille, that we in the government also hope to have a very good cooperation there. It's important to all of us. Although there are many things we look at differently, I also hope that we can find common runways. Finally, it should also be borne in mind that this financial law is important not only for Denmark but also for Greenland and the Faroe Islands. I would like to thank both Greenlandic MPs and also both Faroese MPs, but of course today Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam and Mr. Edmund Joensen, for the comments that have fallen, but for all four, for a very good cooperation, where we can invest both in the community within the Kingdom community, in the climate and the environment, and also in strengthening the judiciary and police practice that is so important in Greenland, and also the social initiatives that so much deserve our attention together. I hope Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam will soon see the northern lights and have a lovely Christmas with the rest of Greenland. I know there's a lot of people up there looking forward to Christmas. Then I would say to all of us that it may well be that we are not going to see the Northern Light, but hopefully we can see some other light together, and I hope the debate here can contribute to that. So with those words, I'd like to say thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218174137	Thank you to the Minister for Finance. And then I'm gonna try to give you a time forecast. Now we have an hour's debate with the Minister of Finance, and there is a nice speaker who has so far 18 who has signed up. But we keep it within 1 hour, and then 1 privateist has signed up, and there is of course an opportunity to do the second round. But if no one signs up to it, we expect to be able to start the votes around. 8:00 p.m. 19.50. And it is expected, I am told, that the vote will take approx. Forty minutes. I shall then open up brief remarks to the Minister for Finance. And that's first, sir. Troels Lund Poulsen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218174227	Thank you. In fact, I would also like to take this opportunity to thank you for the debate and also for the comments that have been made on the positive points that the Left has also mentioned here today. I actually just have a trivial question about something that's been a little hard to figure out. And that's why the question is: Does this Financial Law Agreement contribute to increasing prosperity in Denmark by 2020 and how much?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218174255	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218174256	Yes, I certainly believe that it helps to increase prosperity in Denmark, that we provide better opportunities for well-trained labour, that we can also bring people to Denmark that is needed in our companies, which was not opened up under the previous government. Exactly how much influence it will have is difficult to know, because we do not know how many will come. However, I am absolutely convinced that this financial law, both in relation to 2020 and in the years to come, will help to draw Denmark in the right direction. And it would not have been wise to make it if that were not the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218174347	Sir. Troels Lund Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218174349	I shall not judge at all whether the Minister for Finance is doing something that is wise or not. Others can judge that. However, is it true that the Minister of Finance is not in a position to say whether the agreement we have now reached contributes to increasing prosperity in Denmark by 2020, and that the Minister of Finance is also unable to put a penny on it? Well, that's fair enough, but is that really understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218174410	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218174412	What I am saying is that, as far as the element of the Finance Act is concerned, we are opening up the possibility of obtaining skilled workers from outside Denmark in very well-ordered conditions, it is difficult to know in advance how many will avail themselves of it and what it will contribute to. In addition, if we look at what is going to happen in Denmark in the coming years, we expect that bnp will grow as a Left rapporteur also by 2020 and 2021, and that the number in employment in 2019, 2020 and 2021 will overall increase by 59,000 people. So it is moving in the right direction, and the Finance Act here will also make a good contribution to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218174509	I think I got to say at 9:00. 19.50. Of course it's at 2:00 a.m. 18.50, we expect the vote to be taken just to make it clear. Sir. René Christensen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218174519	I got a lot better in my stomach now, too. Thank you, President. Thank you to the Minister for Finance for the presentation. It is true, as the Minister of Finance says, that the area of elderly people means a great deal to the Danish People's Party. Therefore, I am also happy if I have understood correctly, because if you look at the last period when the Danish People's Party was a support party and look at the older area in isolation, then there was a public growth of 2.1 per cent, among other things. because the Danish People's Party and the bourgeois government on top of the older billion, which the former Social Democratic government had given, came with a dignity billion, which was added to the budgets adopted for 2016. This resulted in public growth of 2.1 per cent. If the Minister of Finance now says that the Minister of Finance can guarantee that when we come back in 2021 and look at 2020, there will have been a growth of 2.1 per cent. in the area of the elderly? 'Cause then it's really good. Is that what the Minister of Finance guarantees here today from Parliament's platform?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218174616	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218174617	What I am saying here from Parliament's platform is that the government is deeply concerned that we must ensure good conditions for the elderly in Denmark. Unfortunately, what we have seen in recent years is that really, very much has been saved on our elderly people. And that is because there has not been enough money in the municipal agreements that have been made under the government that was before us and that had the opportunity to be a government because of the Danish People's Party. What we have then done with this Finance Act is that, on top of what has been given in the past, we are now giving 125 million. kr. extra in the Finance Act. In addition to what is part of the Finance Act and, incidentally, I would like to sign that Dansk Folkeparti also supported the part about the municipality agreements • we give a total boost of 2.2 billion. kr., which means that when more older people arrive in the years to come, the money comes with it. So to me, it is so incredibly important that we welcome the fact that there will be more elderly people, but that we also take it seriously, by ensuring that the money needed for welfare comes out so that they can be spent on our elderly people. And again, I ask, is this Finance Act going to solve all the problems? No, I'm afraid not, because some pretty deep holes have been dug. But we are getting started, and hopefully we can set a new direction, and I hope that the Danish People's Party will also be involved in this in other contexts. This is how I know the Danish People's Party. So I expect that we can do good things together around.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218174758	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218174759	Then I would like to ask the Minister one more time, because the Minister is a minister and therefore also has ministerial responsibility. Is it the case that when the Minister says that the money follows the elderly, the money that has been given extra in the municipal agreement is tied up to the fact that the money follows the elderly? That's how it was with the dignity billion. In fact, it was then that the price was calculated on what it cost per year. older. The municipality with many older people received more money than the municipality with fewer elderly people. Does the Minister now say that the money follows the elderly and that it is not the case that the money that has been given more in the municipal agreement can be spent on all sorts of other good things, for example in the area of children or primary school, when the Minister says that the money follows the elderly? Can the Minister therefore now guarantee that we will see that there is growth of over 2.1 per cent when we review the accounts of the municipalities' economy by 2020 in 2021? That is what the Danish People's Party is asking, that is, whether that is what the Minister is saying. That's what the minister says. Is that what the Minister thinks, and is that true?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218174854	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218174855	What I said a moment ago, and what I am going to say again, is that in the Finance Act itself we have set aside an additional pool of 125 million. kr. to the elderly area. In addition, in the municipal agreement we have made, overall, we have given a boost to the municipalities of 2.2 billion. kr. Then it is up to the municipalities to give priority to the money. But I will be very, very surprised if you do not have a sharp eye in our municipalities on the challenges and problems of the elderly. Fortunately, there will be more elderly people in the years to come, but it is one of the most important tasks, when you are a mayor or a municipal councillor, to take it seriously and provide a proper framework. And I hope that both the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party and all other parties' council members will contribute to this with the foundations that have come for the agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218174955	Then it's Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218174956	Thank you, President. Yesterday, Minister of Finance, it emerged that agricultural emissions are, in fact, far greater than we had previously assumed, and than what we were discussing finance legislation on the basis of. Actually, emissions are so big that CO2 is bigger than we thought. It's not the government's responsibility. It's not them who have rained, but I'm really preoccupied that we're gonna get something done about it and that it's gonna be quick. And fortunately, we have this rather unique opportunity to move as much as 1 billion. kr. in agricultural support for green measures. Will the Minister for Finance help to ensure that we take advantage of that opportunity?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218175050	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218175051	One of the things I am very happy about the Finance Act we have made is the green initiatives we have taken together, both when it comes to the green investment fund of 25 billion. Danish companies can sell green technology to the rest of the world and thus create jobs, jobs and growth in Denmark. As far as the effort is concerned, we have also set out to take out land so that the agricultural land that is most at risk is used in a better way, so that we also reduce our CO2 Then news has come from the European Union in relation to what can be done in the area of modulation and other things. And I know that this is one of the things we are discussing with the Minister for Food, and I think that it is probably best that I let him handle the negotiations for which he is responsible.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218175157	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218175159	Yes, but now it was a really essential part of the financial law negotiations. Then it is true that the EU has just resigned the day after the financial agreement was concluded that more can actually be done. And now it has come to light yesterday that agriculture actually emits 3.2%. more than we expected. So it takes us to act. And that is why I would just like to ask the Minister of Finance again whether the government will not ensure that we do everything we actually can within the opportunities we have with agricultural aid.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218175233	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218175234	Overall, the government is deeply concerned that we are making a very, very strong effort to take good care of our nature, our environment and our climate. We are also concerned that we have a Danish agriculture that is well-functioning, that has some sensible working conditions and that we help to be able to produce food that we can be proud of, not only for Denmark, but also for the rest of the world. And I am quite sure that the Minister for Food will continue the negotiations in that spirit with the Radical Left and other parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218175310	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen of the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218175313	Thank you. After all, in the paper of understanding that the government made together with us support parties, it is very many times that it is the ambition to reverse the trend in relation to the growing inequality that has been particularly under the bourgeois government, where alone in 2017 we saw 12,000 more poor children. In today's debate, the bourgeois side has had a great deal of focus on the fact that inequality is increasing slightly, as the Minister for Finance also mentioned. And that is because there is simply a lack of tools to assess the equality effects of policy in the field of wealth. Isn't that correct, sir? Minister of Finance? It's actually a bit of a leading question. In other words, the fact that we are resetting the housing and gift tax up to 15%. For company heirs, of course, have an effect. It can't be counted on. Of course, the fact that we are taking action against the parental purchasing system, which has benefited the most wealthy, also has an effect. So it doesn't make any sense to say that this financial law increases inequality. That is why I also hope that the Minister for Finance will agree that it is one of the major, perhaps somewhat technical and boring, tasks that await us and that the Minister for Finance's own ministry will also be waiting for us to uncover these blind spots, so we have some facts to discuss on the basis of.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218175451	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218175453	Overall, I would very much like to help us to have as strong a knowledge base as possible when we make our political decisions. That is also why, in a broad sense, we will now look at the calculation models in the Ministry of Finance to include the latest knowledge and to ensure that the things that, popularly said, come out of the calculator once we have put all the figures in are as accurate and accurate as possible. It is also important to say that in my world there should not be a blue calculator and a red calculator. We need something for which we can jointly stand by. And then it is quite correct, as Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen says, that equality is about something other than Gini coefficients, and that there are things that have an impact on equality that cannot be calculated, as is currently stated in the Gini coefficient.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218175554	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218175556	From the SF's point of view we would really like a much improved Gini coefficient to calculate, and that requires that we get some data to uncover the huge area that is today, compared to the fortunes in Denmark, just as the minister has a discussion in the minister's own ministry about dynamic effects and other things. It has a very concrete effect on the policy and on the measures we are taking if you have a completely wrong picture of what it looks like with equality or inequality in a country like Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218175634	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218175635	I agree that we have a common interest in having as good a knowledge base as possible. And this government is deeply concerned about creating equal opportunities and an equal society that can help ensure that not least children and young people who come from a home, where you may not necessarily have parents who have gone to school for many years, are given exactly the same opportunities as all other children just to take an example. That is why equality in my world is, of course, very much about technology and arithmetic models, but also much, much more about what is happening in the society we are part of. And that is why it is so important that we invest in our day care institutions and in our primary school, and that we also ensure health and equality there.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218175734	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218175736	Thank you for some good negotiations. I think we have achieved a good result. I also believe that the result has come because the Minister for Finance has a proper way of negotiating. I believe that it has helped to create the atmosphere and atmosphere needed for us to be able to reach an agreement like this. After all, social democracy has an ambition that the development of welfare should follow the demographic trend, so when more young and older people arrive, the money must keep up. But wouldn't the Minister agree with me? In other words, if we do not have a growth in public consumption which follows the developments in society, as we are actually doing with exactly this financial law, then the public sector will fall behind. So can we not get a higher level of ambition from the Social Democratic Party in relation to what the growth in public spending should be?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218175848	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218175848-2	I would like to start by thanking Mr. Rune Lund for the nice words about cooperation, and I can send them back. I think that we have had very good cooperation between the parties that are part of this financial agreement. And some of what we have had as the most important starting point has been to put welfare first and say that it is no use telling people that you can get it all for half, when we can see how fast our nurse is running; when we can see what is lacking in our care for the elderly; when we can see how difficult it is in the psychiatry; and when we can see that our little one needs a better framework. That is why, with this financial agreement, we are delivering a result that is better than having to live up to demographic pressure. We are spending more money than the fact that there will be more elderly people and children would do so financially, and I hope that we all agree on this is important and right and a new direction we have set with this Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218180001	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218180003	That's what's so good about this Finance Act, so for the first time in ten years we have a Finance Act that goes through the ceiling, compared to the fact that we now have a growth in public spending that not only follows the demographic move it has been a struggle just to get it but where we are actually up to a growth in public spending that follows the development of prosperity in society. And that means, of course, that the public sector does not lag behind when we talk about the 2020 Finance Act. And then my question is: since this is the result of the 2020 Finance Act, would it not be very, very strange if, when we are negotiating the 2030 Finance Act, we go back only to having an ambition that states that there should be growth similar to the demographic move, that is, when we have done so well in the year 2020 in terms of ensuring the full demographic move?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218180047	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218180049	We've done a really good job with this Finance Act. I agree with that. What we have said on the part of the government is that, at least when we have to make agreements with each other, we have to say and take it seriously that when it comes and it's really nice, and we have to be happy with more children and more older people, then the money has to keep up. And so it will be the next time we sit down at the negotiating table, both with municipalities and regions and with the parties of the Folketing. So we have not made a financial law for 2020, where we strengthen welfare, in order to make one for 2021, where we do the opposite.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218180129	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218180130	Thank you. And thank the Minister for the speech. To get back to the insatiable, I already look forward to the climate action plans, and I know that there are many of us who do. And I would like to hear from the Minister for Finance whether we agree that there is a need to look at real investment and real funding of the action plans that are coming and that we are also looking at taxes and charges in relation to making some action in the climate action plans. Although this is perhaps something that is going on in other ministries, I am sure that the Minister for Finance will also have his keen eye on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218180208	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218180210	Well, the last thing I can confirm is that as Finance Minister I see it as my task not only to make finance laws and to ensure that the finances of the empire are managed and that is not a small task in itself but also to ensure that there is a green dimension to being Minister of Finance. After all, I have said that I would like to be the green cashier, because by the year 2020, and I believe that the need will be even stronger in the years to come, we need finance ministers to think green as well. I should also like to take this opportunity to thank my predecessor, Mr President. Kristian Jensen, who is one of them also among finance ministers in Europe who saw it earlier. I think that was very good, but I think that a lot more can be done. And I'd love to be a part of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218180303	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218180307	So the finance minister is closer to becoming the green cashier. I would say that this Finance Act has taken a step closer, and this really is the alternative. However, I would like to come a little closer and hear whether the Minister agrees that, in connection with the action plans in particular, we also need to look at real funding, so that we dare to see that it is not just about things that must cost nothing, but also about things that will require funding from the state.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218180334	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218180335	Well, there's no doubt about that, and we've seen that in connection with this Finance Act, even if you're taking some really big steps, you're gonna have to find the right tools. And that is also something that costs some money. And so it will be when we arrive at a climate action plan. There, too, we need to work out together what tools we want to use. And we must also think about it in future financial laws. So, we have taken some very important green steps with this financial law, but I think that will apply to finance ministers from now on and as far as I can see in the future, that there will also be a need for further work. And that is also what I mean by, of course, if you want to be a green finance minister, you have to be aware that, alongside everything we want in the green area, there are also some tasks with regard to our health care, with regard to our elderly people and with regard to our children. But this isn't just a one-time investment we've agreed with each other. It is the start of investment that we must make for the benefit of our children and our grandchildren and without it being too high a level on the planet on which we live together.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218180501	Thank you. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218180509	Thank you. Yes, sometimes it can be said briefly and well. I also thank the Minister for Finance for his approach to being constructive in New Citizens. We are also about that, and we will be forward-looking. That is why the fact that you do not want to take responsibility is such a pity. We both understand that word. If I say no to my three-year-old daughter to an extra Kinderchocolate, it's also taking responsibility. If I say no to my students being able to play roundball, it's also taking responsibility. If a teenage girl says no to drugs, it is also to take responsibility. We can easily have political disagreements, but should we not get beyond the fact that when you say no to something, it is the same as not taking responsibility? To say no may also be to take responsibility if that is what you think is the right thing to do. In fact, I have two questions. One is: Will children with this financial law become financially poorer or richer in general? Are we going to have more children in poverty, or are we going to have fewer children in poverty? And the other one goes on its own... I'll take that in the next round.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218180609	Thank you. It'll have to wait till the next round. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218180612	It is a financial law that invests so much in ensuring children in Denmark a good upbringing, and this applies whether you come from a family with very small circumstances or you come from a well-off family. When we invest in several adults in our day care institutions, it is because we can see that there are children who have a daily life where there is too little attention, too little care, too little time for the individual child, and the children who pay perhaps the highest price for that situation are the children who come from home where they cannot be helped and supported to the same extent. So this is a financial law where we invest in children, and this does not apply solely to our day care institutions. This is also true in relation to the primary school, in which I know the rapporteur has a great heart and, moreover, until recently has also worked. Here, too, we are investing purposefully in creating better conditions by being able to hire more teachers.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218180724	Thank you. Sir. Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218180726	Now there is no guarantee that teachers will be employed. So far, the municipalities seem to have to decide for themselves. In addition, there will be more user charges. So the parents, whose children you say you want to invest in, you take away some money, because, by setting minimum standards, there is also an increase in parental pay out there, which can be a lot of money for these families. So I have to ask again about the economic situation: does this Finance Act create more children who will live in poverty or fewer children who will live in poverty? It is purely economic in kroner and ear and not in relation to all the other values. When children live in poverty, the left is talking about what it is in crowns and ears. So are there more or fewer children going to live in poverty with this financial law?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218180806	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218180810	This government and the parties involved in making this bill of finance certainly do not intend to bring more children into poverty, and that is why this budget law is an expression of the exact opposite: that we are investing in the fact that the children who come from homes, where there is a very weak opportunity to help them, are also being given a boost. Moreover, we have also, and this has been criticised by several quarters, agreed on temporary family allowances in order to help the families who have the most difficult conditions. So I do not recognize the picture that might have been suggested in the questioner's question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218180847	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218180852	It is going well in Denmark, says the Minister for Finance, and I think that all the financial rapporteurs have been on the floor and say about the same thing: Denmark is doing relatively well at the moment. The more strange it is, after all, that the Finance Minister has succeeded in making a financial law that makes all income groups in Denmark poorer. I mean, you'd think it was a financial law in a time of crisis. It could be understood that it was necessary to tighten the belt and do things and things that would make people poorer, but it is in good times that the Minister of Finance has succeeded in making a financial law that makes all people poorer. Why is this necessary? We hear something about increasing tobacco taxes in order for fewer people to smoke. But if you didn't need that money in the public sector with this red majority, you could have made some compensatory relief in some places so that people didn't get less money between their hands. It is probably because a financial law has been drawn up in which so much money is needed that even the poorest in society must contribute so that they have less disposable income than before the Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218180955	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218180957	On top of that, it's touching to hear sir. Ole Birk Olesen has worked to the extent that, even when you were in government, massive tax cuts should be given to those who earn the most and that, in return, less should be invested in our common welfare for the benefit of those who have the least time standing and saying that this government will make people poorer. That's definitely not what we're going to do. We are going to invest in the welfare society, which is also helping to create security and which is helping to create equality, and we have also decided, as I said a moment ago, on the temporary family allowances, which means that the families and children who have the very least have a helping hand. Then for Mr. Mr Ole Birk Olesen, I would like to say that this government is fully in line with the fact that we are committed to welfare rather than to the tax cuts that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen's party seems to be the way to eternal salvation.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218181108	Here you go, sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218181110	Well, it is not me who says that the Finance Act makes everyone poorer; it is the Finance Minister himself in a reply to the Folketing and to the undersigned that all income groups are becoming poorer as a result of this Finance Act. Their disposable income is getting smaller as a result of this Finance Act. It is the Minister for Finance's own answer that tells us. So, instead of standing there and playing outragedly, can the Finance Minister not tell us why it really is that you spend so much money in the red block that you think it is also necessary to collect more money from the poorest in society, that is, those who have the least, so that they get less disposable income than before the Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218181149	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218181150	We are not out on a raid to take money from people, but it is true that we have said that when we have to take good care of our children and young people, it is a very good idea to raise cigarette prices. And it is clear that if you are a smoker, you will be able to feel it in your economy, and that is one of the choices that we have to make every once in a while as politicians. We are prepared to do something good in this case, hopefully, to prevent a great many children and young people from starting to smoke, with all that it means for their health and quality of life and the risk of being affected by serious illness, knowing that, if you also have a small income, of course, it can be felt if cigarette prices increase initially from 40 DKK. for 55 kroner. and then up to 60 kroner.?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218181241	Thank you. Then it's mr. Edmund Joensen, Sambandsflockkurin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218181247	Thank you. My question is about marine research. I know that the Minister for Finance likes our project, which we have established between Denmark, the Faroe Islands and Greenland. However, my question is as to what the Minister of Finance thinks of setting up a permanent marine research centre in the Faroe Islands.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218181323	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218181324	First of all, I would like to repeat the roses to Mr Seligman. Edmund Joensen for the good course of negotiations we have had, and also thank you for the comments from Parliament's platform. I think it is incredibly important that, when we think about climate action in the Kingdom and in the Kingdom, we do so not only with a Danish perspective or with a Faroese perspective or with a Greenlandic perspective, but that we think it together. And what we are allowing for with the appropriation that now becomes part of the Finance Act is that with a Faroese leadership you can look at how ocean currents and other things can have an impact on our climate, and thus become wiser for the benefit not only of the Faroe Islands, but of all of us. In relation to what further steps can be taken to strengthen it, Mr. Edmund Joensen, that my door is open and that I'm listening, but sir... Edmund Joensen also knows that, although we are approaching Christmas, I do not have a money tree, so I can promise something beforehand. But I would always like to listen to the things that Mr. Edmund Joensen had to find important things.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218181438	Sir. Edmund Joensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218181440	Thank you and thank you for the Minister's positive response. I raise the question because we have researched and had these marine surveys in the past, but the project has been up and it has been down. I agree with the Minister that these things are so important and that we have so large sea areas in the Commonwealth that we are obliged to know what is happening to our ocean currents, to the climate and to fish stocks. We can't risk this kind of project going down again, but they have to be up all the time. That is why my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218181529	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218181531	I think that is quite right, as Mr. Edmund Joensen points out that there is a very, very great knowledge stored not only on land, but also on water, in relation to what changes are happening to our planet. That is why I am very pleased that with this financial agreement we can take the first steps towards exploiting that knowledge for mutual benefit and happiness. I also expect next year to have the opportunity to negotiate both with our two Faroese and our two Greenlandic MPs, and I think that this will be a good opportunity for us there to continue talking about how best to strengthen the common climate action.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218181622	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218181625	Thank you. As I said, I would like to commend the Minister for Finance for having played with open cards in the negotiations, and there are also good things that we will be able to endorse, especially in the green area. However, we are concerned about the socio-economic impact of the Finance Act, i.e. the creation of a Finance Act which reduces the supply of labour and thus actually breaks with many years of tradition of making finance laws that have increased labour supply and thus created growth and created the whole basis for the prosperity we have in Denmark today. When you look at the accounts of how finance laws have been made, how reforms have been made in general over the past many decades, this Finance Act does not represent that I will paint the hell on the wall with the Finance Act itself.In fact, a break with traditions, where we have generally made reforms and finance laws that have increased labour supply in Denmark. Is this a break with the way to make finance laws? Is this a breach of social democratic policy, or is it just a slight fluctuation that the Socialists and the government intend to rectify next year's Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218181737	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218181738	This financial law is so much social democratic policy. It is that we put welfare first. After we have had a government under Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, who was more concerned with tax relief than with welfare, has now turned around, and this means that we are investing in our health care, in our children and young people, in our education, in our climate and environment, but also, of course, that we are deeply concerned about creating growth and development. It is true that there is a very limited negative effect on the supply of labour in this Finance Act. It is not an end in itself from our point of view. On the contrary, we would always like to see things being positive, but I also have to say that this financial law will lead to great opportunities for our industry in terms of being able to pick up skilled labour, in terms of green investment and in terms of education.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218181840	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218181842	After all, it is nothing new that the Socialists are concerned about more welfare. It is quite well known, it is completely classical social democratic policy. I fully agree with that. But there's something new. Well, you didn't see me familiar at least and according to the statements I've seen the Helle Thorning-Schmidt government or the Poul Nyrup government make finance laws that reduced the job offer. That is why I am asking whether this is a breach of social democratic tradition or whether one intends to pursue the tradition pursued by former Socialist prime ministers.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218181918	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218181919	What we are very concerned about is ensuring growth and welfare. You can do that in many ways. Now we have taken a first step in strengthening our welfare societies. When it comes to the reforms we see in the future, it is not the traditional labour supply reforms, where most economists say that we have probably reaped most of the fruits we could get there, but then it is what we call second generation reforms, that is, where we are more concerned with upgrading and educating people, so that they can also carry out job functions that they would not otherwise be able to do. And when we know that in the coming years there will be a shift in which many unskilled jobs disappear and how many skilled people come to, then it would be very sensible for us to invest in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218182011	Thank you. Sir. Morten Dahlin, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218182013	May I not begin by commending the Minister of Finance for an oratorially incredibly well done speech. I am really impressed that with a day of tables and numbers you can look up from the dry spreadsheets and then deliver such a performance. That is a sincere praise. One thing in particular, the Minister said, I asked for. Children, children, children! it was said. The previous government also thought of this, for with the policy pursued by the previous government there were almost 90,000 children who saw that at least one of their parents left the cash assistance system and became part of the largest community we have in Denmark, namely the working community. That policy is now turning the Minister of Finance on his head, because the Minister of Finance has chosen to give priority to 300 million. kr. in higher social benefits, especially for unemployed immigrants and refugees. And a slightly open question: why does the Minister choose to spend money on higher social benefits instead of green conversion or welfare?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218182113	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218182114	First of all, I would like to thank Mr Seligman. Morten Dahlin for the nice words about my speech. It's warming. After all, this government, together with the parties that are part of this financial law, has invested in the green transition. I have not heard any member of parliament today, even from the author's own party, contesting that this is the greenest Finance Act in man's memory. So we have given this priority. And we are also deeply concerned that, whether you have a Danish or a foreign background, when you are here, you contribute to the community, you are part of being able to work. Moreover, there are a great many qualities about this, and that is also why we have set up the Service Commission. But there is also the part of the story that the questioner forgot to mention, namely that there are some children living in very, very small conditions, and there we have then created a temporary child benefit which will give them a little better conditions than they would otherwise have had, and that is what we are aiming for.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218182224	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218182225	This is where the Minister of Finance and I may disagree. I do not think you live in small circumstances if you are paid more than DKK 23 000 as a cash benefit family with two children. a month. You're not rich, but you're definitely not poor either. Can't the finance minister just explain quite quickly how it's gonna help these kids, children, children when their parents don't get up in the morning and go to work? Because with the policy pursued by the government, fewer people will enter the labour market, and how does it not help children to see their parents get up in the morning and go to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218182301	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218182302	With the policy pursued by the government and of what we can see in our crystal ball for the coming years, employment in 2019, 2020 and 2021 will be improved by 59,000 people. And it is really, really important that we get more people, including immigrants, into the labour market. We are 110%. agree on, and that is also why we have asked the Service Commission to make a bid on how we do it wisely and strongly and effectively, without leaving any children under very, very difficult conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218182340	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218182345	Well, it was quite appropriate that we just came from it with the children, when you guarantee help for the children who live below the poverty line. It is only just about a year ago that Mrs Mette Frederiksen promised that there would be a solution for the poor children. So does this finance law make the group of children's families with the lowest income deciles richer or poorer when you look at the overall effect of taxes and taxes?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218182410	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218182412	As I have just said, we have given a hand in this to the families of children who have the least chance of being at work, and even if the parents are at work because we want the parents to work, we must, and it is not for discussion. We will not accept that children live in such bad conditions as those left behind by the previous government. So I firmly believe that we have lived up to what the Prime Minister also said before the elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218182445	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218182447	Is that the wrong answer that the Minister of Finance has given to Mr Seligman? Ole Birk Olesen, when he replied to the question of who became the most poor with this Finance Act, that everyone becomes poor, that all income groups become poorer and receive less income as a result of the tax increases that are and that those that hit the hardest were the very poorest in Denmark? If that is the wrong answer the Minister of Finance has given to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen? Or can the Minister of Finance confirm that this is a correct answer given by the Minister of Finance when the Minister of Finance said that it was the lowest income deciles that were hardest hit by taxes and taxes on this Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218182520	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218182521	I always make every effort, including the Ministry of Finance, to give correct answers. So have we in this case. But it is also no surprise, and probably not for the questioner, that when you put up cigarette prices, it hits socially wrong. I mean, if you smoke 20 cigarettes a day and have an income of 20 million. kr. a year, you can't feel it as much as if you have very, very little money. That is why, not least in the case of cigarette prices, we have a direct effect in raising prices, and when we set them up to prevent children and young people from starting to smoke, it also means something for those who do not have very much money but who, in turn, smoke.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218182607	Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218182610	I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I think that in many ways the Minister for Finance came around quite well with the questions and comments that have been made. However, there is one area which I do not think the Minister for Finance mentioned, namely the area of foreigners, including border controls, and the various facilitations that the government has in various ways. So I would just like to ask the Minister for Finance: when will the government and the Socialists actually stop relaxing the law on foreigners?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218182644	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218182645	Well, thank you, sir. Peter Skaarup for the nice words and for the possibility that we can talk foreign policy here today. I'd love to. In other words, there is no doubt that the Social Democratic Party and thus the government also stand for a firm and strict immigration policy in Denmark, and that we do not intend to relax immigration policy or make a paradigm shift towards a relaxation. There are some places where we have changed something that was the result of some irrational decisions taken under the previous government, but I think, and I think that is what I share with Mr Tugendhat. Peter Skaarup, that there is a very, very large majority in this Parliament and, incidentally, also in the Danish people, who believe that it is important that we stand guard over a strict but also sensible foreign policy. That is what the government's policy is, that is what we are implementing, and in it there is nothing contrary to the financial law we have made here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218182748	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218182750	Actually, there is. Because if we look at the number of relaxations under the current government, just until now, we will see that we are up to 14 cases of relaxation of foreign policy. That's quite a lot, I'd say to the Minister for Finance. That is why I am surprised that when the Prime Minister has said that one does not want to be Prime Minister, if one is to sit in a government which relaxes the policy of foreigners, one nevertheless keeps relaxing foreign policy. So I would like to repeat my question, which I did not get an answer to before: when will the government stop relaxing foreign policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218182831	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218182832	I'll have to repeat to Mr. Knox. Peter Skaarup, that this government stands for a firm, strict immigration policy and that we certainly do not intend to stop it; I think it would be really unreasonable to do so. I welcome the fact that there is a large majority in the Folketing supporting a strict immigration policy, because I think that is actually important for Denmark. This Finance Act has not taken any steps which go in the wrong direction when it comes to having a firm foreign policy. On the other hand, we have taken steps to ensure that some of those in Denmark can contribute better to Danish society, and I think that is sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218182910	Thank you. Sir. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218182914	Thank you. Yesterday there was a Christmas thrill. It was not the Christmas sauce that burned on, but new figures showed that agriculture emits 1.6 million. t climate gases more than initially assumed. 1,6 million t climate gases are equivalent to 3.2%. extra of Denmark's total emissions. And in 13 days' time, the government will have to report a flexion to the Commission. It's an opportunity to move 1 billion. kr. from direct agricultural support to green measures. The reason I ask the Minister for Finance is that it has consequences if we do not do something. Because then the money just has to be taken from the rest of the kingdom's finances if we're going to do something about this challenge. So with the new figures, with the new challenge, will the government increase the green approach through the flexion rate or through the rest of the country's finances?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218183014	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218183016	I share the attention on how we can contribute to ensuring that the climate impression, including from Danish Agriculture, is as minimal as possible, while at the same time having a strong profession that not only creates jobs and growth, but also some healthy and good food for both the Danish population and the rest of the world. So you're sitting over there with the Minister of Food right now, looking at how to set it up so that we can achieve both of these things. And I trust very, very much with my knowledge of the Minister of Food and, by the way, with the decisions we make in this government that we find some balances in relation to that. And we share, as the questioner does, the concern about the latest figures that have come. And we must find solutions to this jointly in the Danish Parliament, but also jointly with Danish Agriculture. That is what we are working on, and I know that the Radical Left is also taking part in those discussions.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218183133	The Minister for Finance shares the view of the Radical Left that these new figures are very serious. It is very serious when we talk about 1.6 million. t extra climate gases. Then it must be relevant to get answers today to the question: Will you be willing to look at moving 1 billion? kr. From direct agricultural support to green measures, as is possible in 13 days' time? And it must be the Minister of Finance who answers whether you want to do it through this scheme or by looking at the rest of the country's finances.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218183209	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218183210	I am grateful for the confidence that, as Minister of Finance, I should be sitting at the top of every debate. There are days when I think it's a good idea, and there are other days when I'm less excited about the idea. But in this case, the situation is simple: discussions are taking place with the Minister for Food on precisely these things. And I know that the Radical Left is a very active player in those discussions. The government welcomes this. But I do not want to stand here from Parliament's platform and negotiate on behalf of a colleague who is seriously working on things. And I'm quite sure you're gonna make a sensible landing of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218183253	Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218183255	I am always so happy when I hear a Socialist say that he is concerned about creating growth. That is a good thing, because if there is growth in society, we will be richer and it will provide additional opportunities to set things in motion, improve welfare and improve the competitive environment of companies. So it makes me happy when the Minister of Finance says he is concerned about creating growth. Unfortunately, he was not when we had the first reading of the Finance Act, because it was, as it were, exhibited and made clear that there were zero growth initiatives in the Finance Act. I am not going to repeat the debate that has been with my colleague, Mr President. Troels Lund Poulsen, that the Finance Act does not contribute positively, nor that the answer to the Danes with the least money is that they should have less money in their hands next year. We've been around that. That's why I'm going to try to follow up on what Mr. Peter Skaarup asked, namely, immigration policy. For the radical financial rapporteur said in his rapporteur's speech, and I quote: we are piercing the paradigm change with the Finance Act. And the radical financial rapporteur was very enthusiastic. And now, in an answer to Peter Skaarup, the Minister of Finance says that the government stands firm on the firm and fair immigration policy. Then I just need to understand whether it is the Finance Minister who is right or the radical financial rapporteur who is right.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218183412	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218183414	It's basically very simple. The government is firmly committed to a strict and responsible immigration policy and we have no plans to change it. We are not doing this with this Finance Act, and we are not going to change that at all. And then it is no secret that, although we have made a financial agreement with the Radical Left, the government and the Radical Left look differently at foreign policy. I hope that does not surprise the questioner. From my point of view, there is nothing in the agreement we have made on the budget law that changes the strict, firm immigration policy of the government. I think it is important that in this Parliament we continue to work for what the Danish people are also concerned with, namely that it should be sensible, but that it should also be strict. And we must ensure that that course continues.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218183518	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218183520	Thank you. So the radical rapporteur has simply misunderstood the agreement reached by the Radicals. In other words, the radical pleasure that foreign policy is relaxed with the financial law agreement must simply be based on a misunderstanding. I think the Minister for Finance should stand by the agreement and stand by the fact that more money is being given to particularly refugee and immigrant families on cash aid and that a large number of relaxations are being made. The Radical Left welcomes this; it is fair enough, it is political disagreement. But I do think it is a little poor style for the Minister of Finance to say so clearly that the Radical Left has completely misunderstood the agreement they have reached.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218183558	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Well, I'm sorry, the minister has to answer. Of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218183605	After all. Thank you, President. As I said, the Radical Left and the Social Democrats have different views on the issue of foreigners. Then we have made a financial agreement with each other, which has some sensible elements, such as: This means that if there is a company that has a skilled employee who is working hard and otherwise had to leave the country, they may be allowed to keep him as long as there is a job with them. I think there are a lot of companies that appreciate that. We agree that this is sensible in the Radical Left and in the Social Democratic Party and therefore also in the government. Does this mean that we have suddenly agreed on foreign policy? No, and I think both the Radical Left and the government can confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218183658	Thank you. Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen received answers, of course. Then it is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218183705	Thank you. I would also like to start by thanking you for a very fine financial law, and I very much agree with the Minister for Finance that we will not be lifting all areas with the first Finance Act. I believe that there has been a really, very large backlog in many areas, which is why it is also in the cards that we will have to make better solutions in the future. But one of the things I'm concerned about, which we didn't get lifted in the Finance Act, is the police settlement. It's coming soon, and I'm thinking that the Minister for Finance has a bunch of money saved for a police settlement. Otherwise, I might know a finance minister badly. But what I am concerned about here is that when we then give more money to the police, it usually has a certain contagion in the courts, which also gets more cases, and a criminal service which also gets more inmates. That is to say, the three things are essentially connected. So I really want to hear here whether the Minister for Finance, because it is the Minister for Finance who is ultimately sitting on the money, has any idea when we are making a new police settlement, if there is a bit of a drop in the criminal services and the courts, so that we ensure that there is coherence in the system.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218183820	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218183821	I would like to start by sending the compliments back to the SF and, by the way, the parties involved in the agreement, because some of what we have been very concerned about in this financial law is precisely to take good care of our police and, by the way, to strengthen our prosecutor, who has been under pressure in the latter area, and where, as far as we are dealing with the police, what Christiansborg calls a cliff had been left behind. And what does that mean? Yeah, that means there was a hole left in the box when we took over the store, at approx. 1 billion kr. In relation to the police. So we should start by filling up because we do not want to weaken the police. Then it is true that we have some debates here, not on this side of the turn of the year, but on the other side, about a police settlement, and there we have to see things in their entirety. There are police, there are prosecutors and courts, and there is also criminal justice. And if I am to understand the question that many holes have been left behind, we must try to do something about it, then I agree with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218183932	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218183936	I am also very grateful that we have filled the gaps for the police so that we do not experience that we have a weakened police force. In any case, I would like to say that in my time I have never experienced a system of justice which has all been enormously pressured and weakened. But I want to hear from the Minister for Finance if he knows what's going on in the department right now. In the first 10 months of the year alone, nearly 100 prison officers have been dismissed because of ill health, and this is simply due to unfair working conditions. There have been almost 1,000 more inmates, but 500 fewer prison officers, and that's what I'm just asking. I hope that the Minister for Finance will think in terms of criminal justice and justice, since we are now also giving more money to the police.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218184029	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218184031	I am very aware of the challenges facing the criminal services. We are dealing here with employees who carry out an incredibly important job every day under quite difficult conditions. There, I think, we must look with open eyes at what we can do together to raise the level of criminal justice. These are negotiations that will be coming in a while. Although I am grateful for the confidence that today I can lift the big veil of what the government is going to play out with on that occasion, I can say overall, both in terms of the police, the prosecution and the courts, that we are very aware of what the challenges are. We will take this seriously together with those parties that will be prepared to carry out that task and take that responsibility, and I hope, of course, that SF will participate in it. On the whole, we look forward to negotiating the police settlement, that it will be a broad police settlement where both sides of the Parliamentary Assembly will hopefully play a part in fulfilling that task, because it is so important to Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218184154	Thank you. The last one's gonna be sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218184158	Thank you for that, President. I would just like to give the Minister of Finance the opportunity to withdraw a few words that he has put on the floor of the questioning round, namely that the government is not relaxing foreign policy by means of this financial agreement, because that is obviously wrong. When, for example, A Somali bus driver driving around Viborg is enthusiastic about the financial law agreement, because he is now allowed to stay in Denmark with the financial law agreement, as opposed to being sent home, what else he should do according to the rules that have applied so far. It is clear that it is a change in the rules for foreigners, it is a relaxation of foreign policy, and then it is quite obviously wrong when the Minister of Finance stands on the floor today and says that this financial agreement does not relax foreign policy. So I would like to give the Minister of Finance the opportunity to withdraw those words again.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218184249	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218184250	That's very kind of Mr. Knox. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, but there is no need for that now, because it is quite evident that I hope it is for Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl says that this government stands for a firm, consistent foreign policy, and that's not gonna change with the finance bill we've made here. On the other hand, there are a number of companies in the business sector which are not only bus drivers, and I would also believe that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl comes out on some of them, where you have actually invested in having an employee with foreign background that you are happy about, and who every day meets at work, is working hard, and he then gets the opportunity, as long as he has work, to stay longer. With an industry that is in demand for labour, it makes sense, and that is why we see it here as an industrial policy and not as an alien policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218184345	Here you go, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218184347	Said Abdullahi from Viborg, who is actually from Somalia, but is driving a bus in Viborg, is today faced with the current rules to be sent to Somalia. I hope we agree on that. That is certainly his own view of the things he has been told. He lives in Viborg with his wife and seven children and drives a bus. He must return to Somalia according to the current rules. Then comes this financial law agreement that the Minister of Finance has made with, among other things. The Radicals, and that is why it has become as it is, and now Said Abdullahi should not be sent home. Now he gets to stay in Viborg with his wife and seven children. The reason he is so happy is that he expects to be allowed to stay here for so long that he can seek Danish citizenship so that he never returns to Somalia. This applies to him, and it applies to a number of other people. How can changing the conditions for Somalis in Denmark, so that they do not have to be sent home, not be a change in foreign policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20191218184443	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218184444	As I said, the government is firmly committed to continuing the tight immigration policy, and I hope so. Kristian Thulesen Dahl will support up behind. Then we have made some business policy moves in connection with this Finance Act, which makes it possible for people who make a daily effort in the labour market and who, moreover, there is a great demand from Danish companies who have invested in them and have said: "Wouldn't you please not take them away from us? We say that as long as they work, as long as they pay taxes, as long as they contribute, they get an opportunity to be part of that business. I think that makes sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218184523	Thank you to the Minister for Finance. Then I understand there's no other round. But I've heard that sir... Karsten Lauritzen wants to go on as a privateist, and that's 5 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218184548	Thank you. It's been so long since I've had the opportunity to go to the platform as a privateist. That is what happens when you have been a minister for a number of years: you get to stand up here as a minister. I would like to start by congratulating the Minister for Finance on the Finance Act. The first financial law is, of course, the easiest in a government in history, so I hope that the Minister for Finance does not think it has been too difficult, because it will only be harder from here. It is now not only to congratulate the government that I have asked for the floor as a privateist, but it is because I do not think that the Minister for Finance, or indeed the Finance Minister of the Socialists, has been quite loyal to what I should have said in my time as Minister for Taxation, and I would like to be excused from being the government's defence to increase the tax on the generational shifts in enterprises. I think that the government should stand by the policy that is being pursued and present objective arguments instead of doing what the Minister of Finance is doing and which I would like to see rejected, namely to take fragments of what I should have said and make it a legitimation of the government's anti-social tax policy. So I'd like to get rid of that. I would like to point out that I have sent a reply to the Danish Parliament, in which I refer to the economic assessment in the Ministry of Taxation, what the professional economic assessment of an impact on the economy and employment is, of course, what it is, and that is the assessment of economists. However, the answer also says, and I think it would have served the honour of the Minister of Finance to have mentioned that there is no real empire behind this, but that there is economic theory, and the economic theory is what it is. But it is not the same as that the reality is necessarily that way. It is beyond doubt that if we increase the generational shift tax, which the government proposes with its majority and which we will vote on later this week at the third reading, this will, of course, lead to job losses, typically outside the major cities. Then it is possible that some of them will arise in Copenhagen, in Aalborg or in Aarhus. It is also beyond any doubt that if you increase the generational tax that the government is setting up, there are capital funds, and I understand that this is something that the Socialists have recently become very enthusiastic about buying up family-owned companies, not with a desire to drive them where they have been invented and where they have existed for generations, but with a desire to capitalise them as quickly as possible, that is what capital funds do, and typically sell them and move them to a place where it is more profitable to drive them, for example. outside the country's borders. When the former government and I, as tax minister, reduced the housing and gift tax to 5%, it was about securing Danish companies in Danish hands. It was then that companies should not move abroad, and I really think that the government, although it is of course unlikely that this will happen, should reconsider its tax policy in this area. Because an anti-business and workplace tax policy is being pursued, and this will lead to the disappearance of jobs. This will at least lead to jobs moving away from where companies and family-owned companies are today and to other parts of the country, and I believe as a politician that this will lead to some of the jobs disappearing from the country, knowing that we do not have a large economic report saying that. What I think is extra double standards by the Minister of Finance and the government is that when it comes to the government's financial law, where there is an attack on the fact that there is a negative supply of labour, it is not so important. Then you should not listen to economists, then it does not matter what they say, because there are some other political considerations that will make it actually a good financial law. But the very same considerations must not apply when it comes to the taxation of generations, because there is what the economists say, law. I would just like to recommend to the government that it should put a little space between it: listen to the economists, but also be politicians sometimes. It is a clear political position to say to the family-owned companies: we want you to stay in Denmark; we want the money to stay in the company; we do not want them to end up in the treasury, because there they do not create jobs at least. So it was my plea to the Minister of Finance not to take a quote from a parliamentary response and use it as a defence of government corporate and workplace anti-tax policy. I hope that the government will put forward its own arguments instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218185050	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218185054	It may well be that there are some political differences in the question of inheritance and inheritance tax for company heirs. I think that is quite fair; we have spent quite a lot of time today discussing this. We often refer to the economic wise men; we refer to the OECD. We also have such more ideological reasons to think it is fair to roll back the tax relief that that government, Mr President. Karsten Lauritzen was a member of, gave to corporate heirs. So we have plenty of arguments in stock for our policy, which is a policy which then allows us to finance the welfare investment that we also want. But when we refer to Mr. Karsten Lauritzen, it is of course because the answer stated that, overall, there is no evidence of significant behavioural effects and therefore no significant effects on the supply of labour and on the abolition of the inheritance tax. So just to make it clear: I think we stand on such a relatively solid professional ground and are also on the narrow path of virtue, one can say when we refer to the answer that Mr. Karsten Lauritzen gave as tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218185213	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218185214	Yes, and to that I can say that the Social Democrat Financial Rapporteur does not. You have to remember to read the introduction when you read such a parliamentary answer. On the other hand, however, I am not surprised because it is a socialist elite discipline to take out a few fragments of something someone has said, and then say: we are basing our policy on that. You start the parliamentary answer with • and I have it here: • I take a positive view of ensuring good conditions for generational change. This contributes, among other things, to: that ownership is held in Danish hands. In addition, a reduction in the tax on inheritance and gift can provide a basis for companies to have stronger capital base when they are transferred to the next generations. There is no immediate basis for a quantitative assessment of the dynamic effects on GDP and employment by exempting family-owned enterprises from household and gift taxes. In short, there is no study in Denmark, but there is of course some economic theory. And that's the difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218185316	Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218185318	I would just like to say that the discussion about how companies are to operate and the fact that different tax arrangements can have an impact on which ownership they choose is, of course, a different discussion. What we have just said is that the answer from Mr. Karsten Lauritzen therefore what I referred to before was that economic theory suggests that it will have no effect on labour supply or bnp. And that's in the answer. Are there any reservations? Yes, there is. But the conclusion of the answer • and I have read that answer many times • is reasonably clear. And that is why I think it is quite, completely within the dial and quite fair that we refer to the answer that Mr. Karsten Lauritzen himself has given. And I think, for my part, that I will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218185404	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218185405	Well, we have freedom of expression in this country, so welcome is the Socialist Financial Rapporteur. I do not think that is fair and I think that the government should say what is the basis of its policy. And that's ideology. It is that you are opposed to family-owned companies. You like foundations. The reduction in the housing and gift tax, which lies, for foundations, supports the Social Democrats. There is also no significant bnp effect of it. But when it comes to family-owned businesses, they should not be kept alive; then they should be killed. And that is not a sensible tax policy to pursue.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218185438	Thank you. And then there are no more brief remarks. The debate is closed. Thank you. Then we will take a short break until 7.05 p.m. when the amendments are to be voted on.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218190506	The sitting is resumed and we shall now proceed to the votes. I hope that everyone is in control of the troops, because we have to vote as I have calculated 48 times. We are going to vote on the amendments to the draft budget. To section 6. Ministry of Foreign Affairs. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-12 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. To section 7. Ministry of Finance. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 13-36 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To section 8. Ministry of Industry. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 37-42 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 43 of the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour 110 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT, LA and SIU) voted against 2 (NB), abstained 0. The amendment has been adopted. Would you like to vote on Amendment No 44 by the Minister for Finance? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 45 of the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 109 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT, LA and SIU) voted against 2 (NB), abstentions 0. The amendment has been adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 46-50 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. To Article 9. Department of Taxation. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 51 and 52 of the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 53 of the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 105 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT and SIU), against 5 (NB and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 54-62 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. For section 11. Ministry of Justice. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 63 of the Minister for Finance? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 64 of the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 105 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT and SIU), against 5 (NB and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Sixty-five of the Minister of Finance? It's agreed. To paragraph 12. Department of Defense. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 66-70 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To section 14. Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 427 of V and DF, and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of voting 48 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), against 61 (S, RV, SF, EL, ALT and SIU), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 442 and 72-77 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. I think it's gonna get a little roughed up here. It is too early; we still have a long way to go. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 443 of the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 61 (S, RV, SF, EL, ALT and SIU), against 50 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 444 and 445 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. For section 15. Ministry of Social Affairs and the Interior. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 81-94 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 428 of DF and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour 13 (DF and NB), against 98 (S, V, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT, LA and SIU), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 95-111 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 112 of the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour 110 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT, NB, LA and SIU) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The amendment has been adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 113-119 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To Article 16. Ministry of Health and the Elderly. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 120-123 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 124 of the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 101 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, ALT, LA and SIU), against 10 (KF and 1 NB (by mistake)), abstention 0. The amendment has been adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 125-132 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 429 of DF and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour 13 (DF and NB), against 98 (S, V, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT, LA and SIU), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 133 and 134 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 135 of the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 103 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, ALT, NB, LA and SIU), against 8 (KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 136-143 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To paragraph 17. Ministry of Employment. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 144-147 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 148 of the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 107 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT, NB and SIU), against 3 (LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 149-152, 446, 154, 447, 448, 157-163, 449, 165, 450 and 167-169 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 170 of the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour 62 (S, RV, SF, EL, ALT, SIU, 1 V (by mistake) and 1 LA (by mistake)) voted against 48 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstained from voting 0. The amendment has been adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 171-180, 451, 452 and 183-192 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 430 of V and DF and can be voted. The vote will end. In favour of 50 votes (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), 61 abstentions (S, RV, SF, EL, ALT and SIU), 0 abstentions. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 193-210 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To Article 19. Ministry of Education and Research. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 211 and 212 of the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 213 of the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 74 (S, DF, RV, SF, EL, ALT, NB and SIU), against 37 (V, KF and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 214 of the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 74 (S, DF, RV, SF, EL, ALT, NB and SIU), against 37 (V, KF and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 215 of the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 74 (S, DF, RV, SF, EL, ALT, NB and SIU), against 37 (V, KF and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 216 of the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 74 (S, DF, RV, SF, EL, ALT, NB and SIU), against 37 (V, KF and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 217 of the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 74 (S, DF, RV, SF, EL, ALT, NB and SIU), against 37 (V, KF and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 218 of the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 74 (S, DF, RV, SF, EL, ALT, NB and SIU), against 37 (V, KF and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 219 of the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour (S, DF, RV, SF, EL, ALT, NB, LA and SIU), against 34 (V and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 220 of the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 76 (S, DF, RV, SF, EL, ALT, NB, LA and SIU), against 34 (V and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 221-223 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 224 of the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 76 (S, DF, RV, SF, EL, ALT, NB, LA and SIU), against 34 (V and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 225 by the Minister for Finance? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 226 of the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour (S, DF, RV, SF, EL, ALT, NB, LA and SIU), against 34 (V and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 227-241 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 242 by the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour (S, DF, RV, SF, EL, ALT, NB, LA and SIU), against 34 (V and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 243, 453, 454 and 246-253 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. To Article 20. Ministry of Children and Education. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 254-258 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 259 by the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. in writing. - 72 (S, DF, RV, SF, EL, ALT and SIU) voted against 13 (KF, NB and LA), abstained on 25 (V). The amendment has been adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 260-262 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 263 of the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. voted 98 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, ALT and SIU), against 13 (KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 264-296 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 297 of the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 99 (S, V, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT, LA, SIU and 1 DF (by mistake)), against 12 (DF and NB), abstentions 0. The amendment has been adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 298-312 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To Article 21. Ministry of Culture. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 313-343 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To paragraph 22. Church Department. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 344 by the Minister for Finance? It's agreed. To section 24. Ministry of Environment and Food. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 345-348 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 431 of DF and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour 13 (DF and NB), against 98 (S, V, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT, LA and SIU), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 349-359 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To section 28. Ministry of Transport and Housing. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 360-368, 455, 456, 369, 457 and 370 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. To section 29. Ministry of Climate, Energy and Supply. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 371-374, 458, 375, 459, 376-386 and 460 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 387 by the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 108 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT, NB and SIU), against 3 (LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 388-390 and 461 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To section 35. General reserves. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 432 of V, and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 50 votes (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), 60 abstentions (S, RV, SF, EL, ALT and SIU), 0 abstentions. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 391-399 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 433 of V, and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 50 votes (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), 61 abstentions (S, RV, SF, EL, ALT and SIU), 0 abstentions. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 434 of DF and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour 13 (DF and NB), against 72 (S, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT, LA and SIU), abstentions 25 (V). The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 400 and 401 of the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 402 of the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour 112 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT, NB, LA and SIU) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The amendment has been adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 403 of the Minister for Finance? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 404 of the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 61 (S, RV, SF, EL, ALT and SIU), against 38 (V, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 11 (DF). The amendment has been adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 405 of the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 61 (S, RV, SF, EL, ALT and SIU), against 50 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 406 by the Minister for Finance? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 435 of DF and voting is possible. Has everyone who so wishes cast the right vote? Looks like it. The vote will end. For the vote 47 (V, DF, KF and NB), against 64 (S, RV, SF, EL, ALT, LA and SIU), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 407 of the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 64 (S, RV, SF, EL, ALT, LA and SIU), against 46 (V, DF, KF and NB), abstentions 0. The amendment has been adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 408-412, 462 and 413-417 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 436 of DF and voting is possible. The vote will end. in favour of 49 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), against 61 (S, RV, SF, EL, ALT and SIU), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 437 of V, and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of voting 45 (V, DF and KF), against 65 (S, RV, SF, EL, ALT, NB, LA and SIU), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. For paragraph 37. Interest. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 463-488 and 418 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To Article 38. Taxes and charges. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 438 of V and CF, and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 50 votes (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), 61 abstentions (S, RV, SF, EL, ALT and SIU), 0 abstentions. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 489 by the Minister for Finance? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 439 of V and CF, and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 50 votes (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), 61 abstentions (S, RV, SF, EL, ALT and SIU), 0 abstentions. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 490-493 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 494 by the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 61 (S, RV, SF, EL, ALT and SIU), against 50 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 495 by the Minister for Finance? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 496 by the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 111 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT, NB, LA and SIU) voted against, 0 abstentions. The amendment has been adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 497 by the Minister for Finance? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 498 by the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour 110 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT, NB, LA and SIU) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The amendment has been adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 440 of DF and voting is possible. The vote will end. For the vote 42 (V, DF, NB and LA), against 69 (S, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT and SIU), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 499 by the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour 72 (S, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT, LA and SIU), against 39 (V, DF and NB), abstentions 0. The amendment has been adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 500 and 501 of the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 441 of V, and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 34 (V and KF), against 77 (S, DF, RV, SF, EL, ALT, NB, LA and SIU), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 502-507 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To Article 40. Reloans etc. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 508-513 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To Paragraph 41. Stock movements, etc. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 514-519 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To Paragraph 42. Net government debt write-offs. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 520-522 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. That concludes the vote on the amendments. I propose that the examination of the draft budget be stopped and that the draft budget be referred back to the Committee on Finance. Are there any objections to this proposal? It's agreed. The proceedings shall then be suspended. Thank you to the members of the Danish Parliament and thanks to the technique. We did it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191218192912	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 19 December 2019 at 12.00 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
