ParlaMint-DK_20190409130001	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409130014	I give the floor to the Prime Minister for an introductory statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409130019	Thank you very much. After all, the electoral period is nearing its end, which means that we have been in work for four years now. When we arrived, we took immediate action in foreign policy: tighter requirements for family reunification, consistency with rejected asylum seekers, lower benefits for new arrivals. Shortly thereafter, Europe was seriously opened up, people on the run rushed unhindered across the external borders, continued up through the countries, including Denmark, and the task we took on in that situation almost four years ago was to lead our country through the migration and refugee crisis in a proper manner. One can think about what would have happened if we had not had a change of government before then, because we took over after a government that relaxed and relaxed the immigration policy, unlike my government, which has pursued a strict immigration policy. We have done this with the awareness that the fate of each refugee is unhappy; that Denmark has a responsibility to help people flee; but that we also have a responsibility for our own country, to look after Denmark. We've kept our heads cold and our hearts warm. Because we can't let in more than we can hold. We have to take care of Denmark, and the number matters. The last two years are the number of asylum seekers for Denmark at the lowest level for 10 years. This is, of course, due to the efforts of the European Union: fewer people are coming in, among others. because Denmark's line has gained more and more support. But this is also due to the policy we have pursued in this country, where we have tightened, reduced benefits, met people with consequences, we have made adjustments together with the Danish People's Party, and which have produced clear results. Denmark has gone from being no. 5 in the EU, measured by the number of asylum seekers per year. resident, to be no. 17, measured by the number of asylum seekers per year. citizen. This is the change that has taken place and that has nothing to do with how many refugees are coming to Europe, but has something to do with how the refugees get to Europe: where are they going? Therefore, it is relevant to ask ourselves: What had happened, and where would we be today, if we had not made the tightenings that have reduced our attraction if one can express it that way? If Denmark had continued to be in fifth place today, yes, in the last four years we would have received 85,000 asylum seekers, measured up to the 35,000 we actually received, that is. 50,000 extras over 50,000 extras. And then I didn't count the family reunions. With 50,000 more, we would have to spend more tax dollars on asylum seekers and refugees, have less money for welfare, and we would have been able to make much less effort in the neighbourhood: we would have had to cut the effort. The situation out there in the Middle East and in Africa is still unstable. The pressure on our neighbouring countries remains great, you can just see over the sound to Sweden, which in the first 2 months of the year, i.e. the first 2 months of this year, has accepted as many asylum seekers as Denmark had last year. That is why I am concerned here, where the season goes on, that the tight policy that the government has built up step by step risks being torn down again, stump by piece, if there is another majority after the next elections, because that is what will happen, and we all know that. We all know that: there will be relaxation again. And why would that be? It will, of course, be because the whole parliamentary basis for a possible new Prime Minister calls for relaxation. But it is also because the Social Democrats themselves want to see a break with the low benefits which are the cornerstone of a rigid immigration policy: a break with the ceiling on cash aid, a break with the benefits of integration. And it will create three problems at once: it will make Denmark • again more attractive as an asylum country. This will create less incentive to move away from unemployment into employment. This will mean spending more money on support and less money on welfare. What a divided government with a divided parliamentary basis can cause in the field of foreigners, the past shows. So if the majority changes after elections, I have to say that I am deeply concerned about the future, and that is why it is so crucial that we stick to the line that has been laid and that has shown its effect and that we can today also measure the value of, among other things. the value that Denmark gives a historic hand to the surrounding areas; that Denmark is the country after Germany and Italy which, in total terms, provides the most to build up the EU trust fund for Africa, a trust fund that has meant quite concretely that 42,000 people on their way up into Libya, across the Mediterranean, have now been sent back where they came from.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409130627	Then we go to the party leaders. There are agreed speaking times, but the Prime Minister made a very thorough statement, so I also take into account the time allocated to the questioners, and with joint help it will be enough. The President of the Socialist Party, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409130646	If you decide here in the Danish Parliament to abolish all low benefits from one day to the next we could say tomorrow it would mean that a family with a mother and father and three children who have just come to Denmark and have not yet contributed to our community would get 117,000 DKK. after taxes to themselves every year. Would it be fair to give it to a family that has not yet contributed to our community? No, that wouldn't be fair. It would not be fair at all to the pensioners I know who find it difficult to make the money stretch. And that would not be fair to those who stand up every morning and do their job and only earn a living for things to run around in a proper way. That is why we must not simply abolish the low level of services. Does this mean that the problems with children who suffer material deprivation because their mother and father do not go to work disappear? No. And there the Prime Minister has the same problem as I do the Prime Minister knows it from LøkkeFonden's work: that a boy who does not have the opportunity to go to football is not given the same opportunities as other children. So in other words, we have a task ahead of us. We need to solve this wiser than we do today. That is why we are proposing a Services Commission so that we find the right balance. And no matter what you think of benefits, after all, it will be symptom treatment. Therefore, a specific question to the Prime Minister today: will the government help to ensure that refugees no longer travel to Denmark and spontaneously apply for asylum, but that we remove that opportunity and move it to the neighbourhood, so that we start helping refugees closer to the area from which they are fleeing? And then, calmly, we can bring the refugees here, whom we believe we have the strength to integrate, and make that integration work better.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409130848	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409130849	Yes, that is the whole idea of the line we are pursuing in the European Union, where we have argued from day one that the EU's external borders should be managed. All these ideas of starting to reallocate refugees, asylum seekers and migrants who have come to Greek islands and Italy are just dragging people on. We need to shut down the borders. We're working on that. A new Frontex initiative has just been adopted. I was at Kos last week to see the Danish contribution. For it was much better if no one came spontaneously and then the UNHCR system could be used to bring in quota refugees. In relation to benefits, I have to say that if you compare the benefit system that existed before my government arrived with where we are now with the 225-hour rule, the ceiling on cash benefits and the integration benefit, that is to say, if you roll it away, and that is what all the parties that support Mrs Mette Frederiksen's Prime Minister's candidacy say, the fact that a refugee family got in the vicinity of DKK 10,000. more a month. And that we're going to spend a lot of money on passive support instead of welfare, plus that we're recreating Denmark as a refugee magnet. That is why I am worried when all the other parties have that wish and Mrs Frederiksen also opens it up, but obviously not before an election will say exactly how much of it needs to be relaxed. It would be easier if we got that answer. Well, then we could calculate the effects. But it's hard to get answers. How many people are going to retire? Who's gonna retire? Who's not gonna? What are some benefits to be paid and how much are they to be paid? I think we are approaching the elections so much that one might well demand a little clearer answers.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409131031	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409131033	I understand that it may be difficult for the Prime Minister to relate to the fact that we are some who want to help worn-out Danish employees when most of their political life has been spent undermining the rights of Danish employees. This aside: The vast majority of restrictions that have been made in foreign policy in recent years have, of course, been made in a broad political majority here at Christiansborg. It's really, really good. That is why I cannot help thinking when a press conference is convened today: is this an expression of the Prime Minister's concern about what is happening in his own party? For the Social Democrats stand firm. Is this an expression of the fact that Jan E. Jørgensen, Kristian Jensen, is beginning to influence foreign policy and intends to relax it, what have both expressed in the past? Because there is another way, and that is to stand firm on the broad majority of foreigners, which is, and unless the Left is in the process of changing politics, and that may well be, because we have heard a lot of signals about it, since we are running away from the political majority, then it remains firm. The Social Democratic Party stands firm, the Danish People's Party knows I stand firm in the field of foreigners and the Liberal Alliance I know nothing about. They said one thing yesterday and say another today, you never know. But does Left? For if the Left also stands firm, the broad alien political alliance, which has been created in recent years, stands firm. And it will be good for Denmark. That is why I recommend that we stand firm.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409131154	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409131156	But what is quite clear is that if there is a new government, the benefits will be increased. That is absolutely clear. This is not even a discussion. Mrs Mette Frederiksen does not even question it herself. There was massive opposition to us implementing the cash aid ceiling, the integration benefit and the 225-hour rule. All the parties which, if they so wish, must support Mrs Mette Frederiksen say: what needs to be done away with. And Mrs Mette Frederiksen says: yes, something needs to be done about the benefits. She just won't tell the Danes what's gonna happen. Could it be that they need to be put down further? No, I guess it couldn't. The whole set aside for this service commission, such a jar for having a guard in the election campaign, is that the benefits should be increased. Would it not then be appropriate for the Danes to be told before the elections how much they should be set up? All I know is that it has been a huge success, that we have created a ceiling on cash benefits and integration benefits. This has led to fewer people coming to Denmark; it has resulted in more employment for those coming. Therefore, it would be worrying to go the other way. And Mrs Mette Frederiksen will therefore be where the relaxation starts, because of course you start where you are pressed by your parliamentary hinterland and where you give yourself an opening. And how big is the opening • how much is the benefits to be increased?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409131315	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409131316	You could just start by doing your job. Shot on the street the other night in Rungsted. Has the government succeeded in banning Muslim free schools that create parallel societies in this country? Is there an obligation for immigrant women to work 37 hours a week? No, there isn't. And what we see today is a huge political self-image: scaremongering, scaremongering. This morning thousands of Danish employees have risen. They've gone to work. Of the wages they earn, they pay taxes. They have seen today that their taxes go to three ministers instead of doing their job holding a press conference in an election campaign that has not even started yet. Would it not be wiser for each of us to use our speaking time to present our policy, for the ministers to do their job, and for us not to fall into the easiest, yet the most unbelievable: just to shoot at our political opponent?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409131423	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409131424	We're not shooting at anyone. We do not, and if we did, we would also live in a country where it has been tightened up and where the likelihood of us being apprehended and going to prison has greatly increased. That's why so many gang members are in prison at the moment. But we're not shooting at anyone. Mette Frederiksen but they're still shooting away! ) We're not shooting at anyone. We ask some questions that I think are quite fair. Because it is quite fair that the Social Democratic Party wants to go to the polls on a view that benefits must be lifted. It is quite fair that we have fundamentally opposed the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule and the integration benefit. That's quite fair. It is also quite fair that all the parties that want to support Mrs Mette Frederiksen as Prime Minister think that that should go all the way. That's quite fair. But then it is probably fair to ask what that means in concrete terms. That's not scaring. That's asking some questions so that people can make an informed choice. It is, of course, a choice between one and the other. I care a lot about people who are worn out, and I think that Mr. Mattias Tesfaye's mother seems to be in the target group for the improved senior pre-retirement pension, which I agreed at the time, and which I must also take responsibility for helping to reduce when Mrs Mette Frederiksen was the Minister for Employment and De facto Deficit. So I care about that. But I think it's fair that people know what to choose from. Who's going on the "A" team and who's going on the "B" team when we talk retirement? And how much is it that benefits should be set up for people on passive support? That's not scaring.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409131559	Thank you to Mrs Mette Frederiksen. And then it's sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, who gets the podium. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409131606	Thank you. On the other hand, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for starting with an opening here on immigration policy. I think it is liberating that the Prime Minister chooses to stress here today in Question Time that it is actually bloody serious and that, if we do not keep our course in foreign affairs, it has some fatal consequences. It has, of course, seen this with the eyes of the Danish People's Party primarily for the values of our country, i.e. the cohesion force. Can we, as a country, hang together if we do not have the immigration policy under control? No, we can't. It shows all the experience. We can look around our cities and ghetto areas etc. And see what that has to do with consequences. But it also has that on the economic side, as the Prime Minister mentioned. After all, the Ministry of Finance has told us a long time ago how many billions of dollars it costs the public purses every year that we have non-Western immigration to Denmark, which we do not have control of. That's 36 billion. kr. a year. Try to think about how much Danish welfare you could get for that money. So keeping track of this area is one of the most important things. It is also right to focus on the fact that when Mr. Morten Østergaard said a week ago that he wanted to put himself through in the field of foreigners, so we can think back to a time when the Radicals ruled Danish immigration policy and boasted of, I think, it was 46 relaxations in the area of foreigners that had been achieved during the last government. In contrast, we have delivered over 140 tightenings of foreign policy since 2015. Now, Mr. Knox... Morten Østergaard has particularly looked at the paradigm shift, I think it is worth asking the Prime Minister to confirm that the paradigm shift is actually there where we take such a rather landmark step in the policy of aliens in principle. Because we want to separate refugee policy again on the one hand and immigration policy on the other. What has been the case before the paradigm shift is that for 3-4 decades the two concepts have been messed up completely. Once again, it will be about refugees being helping temporarily until they return to their homeland and rebuild their homeland and that immigration policy is what we are talking about in terms of how many people should be able to come here and work, and whether you should be able to marry a foreigner if you as a Dane fall in love, etc. etc. Therefore, the paradigm shift is actually so landmark and so important to hold on to.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409131827	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409131828	Funny enough, I can confirm that, but I'd like to add a few more words. It is for me to see a very important decision that we made by introducing this so-called paradigm shift, which for me is really a double paradigm shift. Because on the one hand it is to say that if you come here because you are persecuted, you are here temporarily as long as what you have fled from is something you cannot return to. So temporaryness is temporaryness. On the other hand, one also has a fundamental obligation, when one no longer has a need for protection, to return. That is to emphasize the temporary nature of the matter. When I call it a double paradigm shift, it is because in it also lies that learning our language or working or anything that is really good does not in itself mean that you can move from being a refugee to being an immigrant. Having said that, I would like to say that for the first time in the Folketing there is actually quite broad support for people to work while they are here. Because it is fair to say that with the old set of rules, where links could be built, there was a reservation on whether we should actually drag these people into our society, because if we drag them into our society, we turn them into immigrants. For me, it is a very, very happy thing that we have drawn a clear line, where we say that you are here when you have protection needs, and you also have to work, and you can learn our language, that is only good, because you get skills that can be used when you return home. That's what the paradigm shift is all about. Therefore, it is also worrying if someone at a later stage is pressured to roll it back. But when I chose to go somewhere else today, it is because I fully recognise that Mrs Mette Frederiksen is on that part of the immigration policy. But it is obvious that the Social Democratic Party wants to increase benefits, which in itself will be able to attract people and erode the opportunities to get those who come into employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409132038	Thank you. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409132040	Yes, it is true that Mrs. Mette Frederiksen, I think I said it was a thin cup of tea when we made the paradigm shift. It is obviously so important, at least for the former government partner, the Radical Left, that it should be rolled back, and we are in, from the point of view of the Danish People's Party, in something quite, absolutely crucial in foreign policy. So that we ensure that people who receive help as refugees recognise that this is a temporary period until you can return and rebuild your homeland. It is both an obligation from our point of view, as there should be, but indeed a moral duty for citizens, that we are prepared to return to our homeland and help rebuild it. So, of course, Denmark must help to make this happen. We are happy to help with local area assistance, which makes it possible to do so, for example. to build up a country like Syria when people return, but it has to be that you are obliged to return to your homeland and help rebuild it. It is clear that when some people start to say that this is exactly what has to be rolled back, it is true that you can also get to grips with all sorts of other things. But then it is a question of trying to reunite refugee and immigration policies. Now we have just made a great effort to separate it, and it is only separate in legislation. It's not separate in practice yet. This is what has to happen over the coming years, and that means that if you do not have a fixed course here and stick to it, we can risk that something that is actually natural for a lot of Danes: that refugee policy is over here and immigration policy is over here again becomes a mishmash, where people have an interest in applying to Denmark, perhaps even without having the right to asylum. But because they just stick around here, they turn into immigrants, and that's exactly the mistake we've seen in this country for decades.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409132219	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409132220	I am very, very much in agreement with that; it is absolutely crucial. I also think that in many ways it has been liberating that this paradigm shift has just made clear the distinction which Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl also draws forward, namely that there is foreign policy, and then there is, you might call it, labour policy. And that's two different things. In many ways, at least for me, it has been a frustration that it is all mixed together, because we do not need Denmark to be open to those who just like invite themselves, economic migrants. We need a closed door. I have then reversed that view, and there I do not agree in detail with Mr Giscard d'Estaing. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, that in relation to being an open country for people invited to work in Denmark, study in Denmark, I would like to have, to put it bluntly, that we liberalised. We've got one of them. had a wish that for people from countries that are reasonably close to us, where we have a lot of investment and they have a lot of investment with us • USA, Canada • it should be a little easier to get to Denmark and work, and that you shouldn't have a very, very high salary to be here. We don't quite see that the same way. But I am quite sure of one thing: if we do not separate these two debates, it will be very, very shimmering. And I very much believe that the Danes basically share the view that we must be closed to those who cannot and will, who challenge our values and who do not want our society. That is why we need to pursue this strict policy, and that is why we need to be vigilant about the paradigm shift. On the other hand, we must be a relatively open country when it comes to ensuring that our talented companies get the manpower they need to keep growth alive.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409132404	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409132406	I would just like to use my last minute to ask the Prime Minister for a case that is then EU-related. And that is, it can be said, in fact also in relation to foreign labour. Because when there comes this labour force from other EU countries to Denmark and works they are free to come to Denmark, we have an EU regulatory set that makes us send a children's check to families in the home country from which people come. So if Daddy is in Denmark and works for example. As much as 10 hours a week, that is, what we call a leisure job, you will have the right to have a children's check sent to, for example, four children to the family in Romania, not at a Romanian level, but at a Danish level. It's pretty lucrative. Our friends in Austria have made it clear that they will not put up with it. They have therefore made a rule whereby, from the turn of the year, they are going to index the children's cheques somewhere, perhaps you should not have to pay it at all so they at least pay it at Romanian level only if it is to a family in Romania. The European Union has then announced a case against Austria. And I would like to ask the Prime Minister if he shares my concern about the rules that apply today. And if he does how he will then ensure that Denmark helps Austria in this matter, then it will of course be allowed to index the children's cheque as a minimum in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409132525	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409132527	Well, basically, I'm not gonna put up with it either. I don't think it's a proper system where you and I think I've used the phrase "send off a full-bodied Danish children's check to countries where purchasing power per. So crown is four times as large as it is in Danish society. That is also why it has been a priority for the government to try to move it here in Europe, and indeed we were almost there. Because, on our initiative, the then British Prime Minister Cameron took this proposal on board and it was part of the agreement that was reached between him and the European Union as a platform for a referendum in Britain. And if the British had voted to stay, this would have been unfolded to a general rule. We didn't succeed, and that's why we're back to the law that applies. It then challenges Austria by saying: we do not like the rules and we do not want to respect them either. That's not my approach. I am following with great interest what is now happening around Austria, and any legal opening that may appear will of course be used, because we are continuing to fight for this indexing issue. However, I am not in such a position to go in with national legislation in an almost sure assurance that, in a few years' time, when the cases are settled, we will be in danger of having large claims for repayment. And I think you can say that, too, doesn't match the Danish temperament. So we follow the case in Austria. It is a Danish idea that they have translated into Austrian law. We have fought for it ourselves, and I have not given up that fight, and I believe that there will be opportunities, even in the future. Soon, for example, the budget of the European Union will have to be negotiated. There will be many different angles on the matter between East and West and North and South, and there we must keep the ammunition dry. Because I am in favour of freedom of movement. I can see that there are some who basically ask questions about it and I was very confused about it yesterday. I am in favour of freedom of movement, but it must be fair and proper.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409132716	Thank you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. We shall give the floor to Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409132730	I would also like to talk about association, but between children and adults in a stable and calm everyday life in the day institutions in Denmark. Because I really hope the PM has the power to do something about this. Just outside Christiansborg there were thousands of parents and children gathered on Saturday, and this happened at the same time as there were parents and children in over 50 cities throughout the country who demonstrated, who shouted and who made speeches and went into parade. These were insanely many people; I even heard of some who had made a sort of song in which they somehow got the word minimum ratings pressed into the melody of Master Jacob. Well, that was excellent what was going on. It is not really a very funny background: those people are angry, they are megany, and that is because our day nurseries and our day nurseries have too few adults around them. And what we have seen over the years is that there have been fewer and fewer adults compared to the number of children. We have had more children, and for some periods there have been fewer adults, and in some there have just not been enough new adults. But it has consequences, and the parents tell us about it. They tell about experiencing educators running around who can't get the ends to meet. We have heard the stories of small crèches who must sit alone in the living room when there is a child to be changed because there is a single adult to perhaps 6-8 young children. That is why I would like to ask what I think all the thousands of parents and children would like to ask: Would the Prime Minister please give the children the right to have enough adults around them? Would the Prime Minister please introduce minimum standards so that there is a minimum of adult contact and children have the right to do so in their daily lives?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409132946	Thank you. Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409132948	Thank you. Well, I certainly noticed that there were a lot of kids and parents on the street this weekend. So I've noticed. And I have a lot of respect for that, because I'm a father myself, so the kids have grown up, but someday there may be grandchildren. It's our boyfriend's property. And we have to treat them properly. I do not think there is any reason to question that. And that is why I also welcome the fact that the overall parental satisfaction with our day-care facilities when we ask about it is nicely high; that children, when asked about it, generally thrive. But that does not shake the fact that we have seen examples that things are not working well enough. We have then tried to deal with that too. Anything good can probably be done better, but we have tried to take care of it. We've invested 1 billion. kr. extra in a 1,000-day programme for settings targeted institutions with children from particularly vulnerable families. And it is reasonable that more needs to be done. I want to be nice to the children; I have not stood up and exalted myself to be especially the prime minister of the children, because I really want to be Prime Minister of all children and young people and seniors and elderly and sick and healthy, but I want to be nice to the children. I would also like to be faithful to our own social model, which is based on the fact that we have a municipal autonomy with some people who are elected out there to take responsibility. We have contributed more money to the municipalities during this parliamentary term. This contrasts with the time when Mrs Pernille Skipper's party was a parliamentary basis for a government that agreed year by year that the municipalities needed less money. We have increased the funding for the municipalities. But we really do want to get closer to and in dialogue with the professional organisations about what the reality is out there. And that is why the Minister for Children and Social Affairs has already called BUPL, FOLA, FOA and KL for a meeting in which everyone has accepted. And when the Minister for Children and Social Affairs has called that meeting, it is because we want to have a dialogue on: how do we get closer? What is the reality out there, and how do we ensure that all children in every daycare institution have a safe and proper everyday life? But I am very, very reserved for the idea that we should run it in detail from Christiansborg in the form of minimum standards.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409133213	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409133215	I mean, retail? It comes from a government that has provided guidance on how to give handshakes when you get citizenship; a government that has legislated on how people should dress in public spaces; a government that has legislated on how many occasions there must be in specific areas of Denmark of a particular kind • if there are just three early retirement pensioners too much above a statutory limit, that settles the matter. It comes from a government which has legislated on teaching plans in day-care institutions; a government which has legislated on how many children with a vulnerable background must be in a single day-care institution before that day-care institution has to be shut down. But how many educators there must be in the day-care institutions it is retail regulation. Apparently, that's where you hit the border. To be honest, is not the argument of retail regulation just the world's worst excuse for not introducing minimum standards because you know that you do not want to send the money after what it costs?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409133327	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409133328	No, it's not. There's a lot of problems with this. There is a risk that minimum standards will become maximum standards. This is not a new point of view. In other words, it is not to stand and make references to the Social Democratic Party when I am actually finished with the President of the Social Democratic Party here during Question Time. But there was, for example. A period in which the party had a complete catalogue of things that would be carried out if the government were to be given power; on minimum rights at all. This has been abandoned, because the risk is that if you say that there must be at least something, then it will also be maximum. I think the way forward is someone else. It is to ensure that the municipalities have the economy that is needed out there to run a proper municipality. It is to ensure that the municipalities are responsible for prioritising this. It's setting the staff free. Because if you go into this quite practically, you will see that there are day-care establishments where sick leave among staff is mega-high, and then there are other day-care institutions where it is very, very low. So what's it gonna do if we have some theoretical calculation of how many people there have to be if they're twice as sick as the other place? If you go in and look at how much time the staff spends with the children and how the manager forms part of the contact with children itself, you can see that this varies from institution to institution. And that is why I think we should have some good institutions, and those I think are best at ensuring that those institutions are good are the people who have been elected out there by the children's own parents. And what is our responsibility is to make sure that the municipalities have an economy and we can probably discuss that too, which makes it possible to give priority to this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409133505	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409133506	First of all, I find it frightening how little the Prime Minister has really gotten into this. Because there are just some models for mini-ratings which, fortunately, when the Prime Minister himself has wrongly toured with the rest of the government, he is counting on temporary employment and management time and everything else from. It exists, for example. in Norway. And yes, I think we should discuss economics. In fact, I do not think that there is a single municipal politician out there, not even anyone from the Left, who would like to see there not being enough educators in the institutions. But they work under a financial framework that comes from in here. And during this entire reign, the government has sent out so little money to the municipalities that it has not been possible to keep up with the development of the number of children. This means that there may be more educators, but there will be even more children and therefore there will be less adult contact. And even during the reign before, when it was not the Prime Minister who held the Prime Minister's post, but the Social Democrats, the Left held hands under that government when they cut down. When the Enhedslisten said no, the Left went in and voted for their cuts. And that's why there's not enough adult contact out there now. So my question to the Prime Minister is: if you don't want mini-munerations and if you don't dare give the children rights, what is it you want to promise? Will it be promised that there will be more educators, so that at least there will be no less time with the adults, so that this corresponds to the number of children who come to, so that it follows demographic development? Will we promise a de facto end to the cuts? Can one at least promise that there will be more time with adults? Well, what exactly is the Prime Minister going to promise? 'Cause it sounds like an election campaign in it, and you just say, yes, it has to be better. But you come with absolutely nothing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409133708	Thank you. Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409133710	There hasn't been much campaign in me. In other words, if an election campaign is measured by the fact that you stand up and promise everything you can't give funding to, then I haven't had an election campaign in me. I'll leave that to everyone else. I am just trying to keep such a small shadow account of what the promises of the opposition run up to overall, because every time a social problem is raised, it has to be solved by economic space: full, one to one, we say yes to all who complain. Pernille Skipper Not near answering the question!). It's gonna be really, really exciting to see what's going to happen. I can only say quite quietly that, while I have been Prime Minister, we have agreed with the municipalities that they have been able to raise their consumption limits by 2.5 billion. kr. Under the previous government it was agreed with the municipalities that they should reduce their service framework by 3.5 billion. kr. It's just a fact. I cannot stand by and make promises on behalf of 98 different municipalities. I can say that I want to give priority to core welfare in this society. This is among other things. Therefore, I am deeply concerned that Mrs Pernille Skipper's thoughts on immigration policy are going through because it will have a very, very negative effect. 1,000 more asylum seekers... but you can stand and laugh at that... Pernille Skipper Yes, because that's not what I asked). But the money can only be used once. Pernille Skipper Everything is about aliens always!). One thousand more asylum seekers are equivalent to 960 educators. That's just the way it is. What I can promise is that we will continue the work year by year to make some good solid agreements with the municipalities, where we give priority to core welfare, take care that we do not spend money on asylum seekers in Denmark, which could be spent on welfare, take care to get more Danes into work. We have the lowest number of Danes on public support we have had since 1987, and that means that we have the opportunity to spend some more of each other's money on, among other things. teachers in day-care establishments rather than passive support. And that's the line we're going to continue.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409133904	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Skipper. Then it's mr. Uffe Elbæk, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409133914	Thank you. It is not a secret that I usually always ask the Prime Minister green questions, but today I actually want to make an exception because it may be the last question hour we have before an election. We say that every time, but the Prime Minister pulls it out and pulls it out. But if we just pretend that this is the last question hour, then I would like to ask some questions about a subject which is notoriously downgraded and marginalised, but which, on the other hand, is very close to my heart: culture and cultural policy. And the reason why I want to focus on it today is that there has been a report from Monday Morgen and Altinget, called "Mellem ballet og biografere" culture according to the Danes and which documents it is a very thorough study of cultural habits in Denmark • that 80%. of the Danes attach a crucial importance to culture and art for their children's development. And then it is, I wonder, that we never discuss a subject that really, really means a lot to us. I do not think we could imagine Denmark without art and culture at all; that is, it defines us as a country, it defines us as a society, it is about values, identity, collective memory and all those things that are absolutely crucial to human recognition. And yet we never discuss it, at least not down here in the Chamber. So my question to the Prime Minister is: why does the Prime Minister think that we never discuss cultural policy? Well, it's completely absent. And does the Prime Minister have any idea that perhaps in the election campaign we could still discuss just a few cultural policies?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409134111	Thank you. Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409134113	Thank you. Well, I'm sorry we had to get to the penultimate Question Time in the parliamentary year before Mr. Uffe Elbæk himself raises a subject which he simply thinks has filled everything, far too little. So, maybe sir. Uffe Elbæk also has some of the answer to why we do not discuss it more often. I fully agree with the description that culture is important and that it creates our identity. And the Danes are big consumers of cultural offers throughout the scale from what is happening in popular society to what is happening on our finest scenes • Den Kongelige Ballet, Den Kongelige Opera. Perhaps one of the reasons why we are not discussing it so much is that we are actually across the differences that are there and that some have a little bigger spending pants on than others, and that it depends a little on whether people have to pay for themselves, or whether you just have to suggest that somebody else do it basically looks pretty alike that we need this diversity, and that we don't politicize culture or push it ahead of us. There you see some examples of the opposite when you invite an artist to paint the history of your party's historical achievements, etc., but usually that is not the way we work. So it might be connected to it if I try to give an answer. We would like to give priority to culture. That is also one of the reasons why, compared to this hated re-priority contribution that we had to use to get the money to fit when we looked at what was left for us when we got the government in 2015 ~ as the first place like having let it go in the Ministry of Culture area. And that is what we will do, even in the field of education, when we come a little further forward and the money can fit. And that also creates a cultural economic space which can be given priority over the coming years. So I am very happy to enter into discussions on this and have now just tried to use the speaking time to give an answer to a very, very open question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409134314	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409134315	Well, the Prime Minister and I have discussed this once or twice in this Chamber, so it has obviously been up to us. The last time I asked questions about cultural policy, it was actually very specific about this notorious re-priority contribution. I mentioned that these 2-percent cuts are used to make things more efficient, but you cannot play a symphony by Beethoven 2%. In any case, it will be a very special version or dance Lake Swan 2%. faster or maybe cut it by 2%. And even though the Prime Minister says that this change of priority contribution in the field of culture has been avoided, it will only happen in the event that I do not think quite wrong by 2022, and so there are two more years. It may be that I am wrong, but if what I have been told is right and I hope it is not, and if it is not right, then I am only happy, then it will in fact still mean a cut in the cultural area of about 640 million. kr. within the next two years. Will this not mean a deterioration in the quality of the art scenes and cultural scenes that the Prime Minister himself is so fond of?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409134448	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409134451	Now I'll be very careful what I answer. I stand here and speak under ministerial responsibility, and I do not remember the overall state budget by heart, but I am now quite sure that, in relation to the financial law we have agreed, we are, in other words, looking at where we are net allocation in terms of the area of the Minister of Culture. But I now take every possible reservation about the scope of my readiness, because I do not want to be accused of lying. In relation to the issue of creating pressure, I actually believe that this is a difficult discussion. Because I was previously a member of a government where we thought that now we should promote culture by communicating it free of charge. So we said: now we are removing the income from some of the major cultural institutions, the National Museum of Denmark, the State Museum of Art, because now we have to show it, right? Then there will be a period, and then there will actually be some heads of institutions, if I do not remember completely wrong, and say whether they could not get the entrance back, both in order to have a quality pressure on them, so that the customers who come are some who would like to come so that the citizens who come are some who have really chosen us for the journey but, of course, also to get some economy. That is why I do not think that there is such a fixed formula where you can just weigh it off in money and say that if there is a lot of money, you create culture, and if there is less money, it will not come. And it's not to stand idyllicize the poor writer in the attic over in Nyhavn who was writing fairy tales and stuff. But culture is also being developed in counter-pressure. Well, I think it has a lot of dimensions. But without money, of course, you can't do anything. That is why our ambition is that the cultural sector is not an area to be pruned. This is not the same as saying to each institution: Relax, there will never be anything happening with your appropriations. Because it also needs to be developed, and sometimes something has to fall in order for something new to stand, right?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409134642	Thank you. Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409134643	I am absolutely sure that if the leaders of the cultural institutions heard this, they would say: no, we must do everything possible to avoid this re-prioritisation contribution. Now I see that the Minister for Culture is present, and then we can check out the facts afterwards with regard to the specific figures. However, this re-priority contribution to quality in our state institutions is devastating. But we'll just take it another good time. The Prime Minister said just before in the debate that there had not been an election campaign in it. No, no, the PM wasn't even in an election fight. But then I have to say that I think it was remarkable to see the press conference that has just been held this morning, when we saw three ministers presenting a lot of figures, which were not about government policy, about criticising another Prime Minister's candidate sitting right here in the first row. I think that was completely paradoxical to look at. Of course, it is the government itself that decides which types of press meetings you want to hold, but it was more like an election campaign than anything where you put forward a policy that the government wants to tell news about. Therefore, I would like to use one last question to ask the Prime Minister: how many resources have actually been spent in the central administration at the press conference and on the material presented this morning?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409134821	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409134824	Thank you. In other words, no resources have been used in the central administration to run a press conference in the Left. Well, of course there isn't. It was the Left who held a press conference. And on what does that press conference base itself? I do not know all the details, but it is based on some answers that the ministers have given to members of parliament and that is the way it is. In other words, the ministers are answering questions from all members of parliament, and we can discuss that, because questions are increasing. I do not know how many questions the Minister for Health has answered, for example. from the Social Democratic Party, on top of the government's health reform on every conceivable hospital, we apparently had some secret idea of closing and something like that. A lot of questions are being asked. I think that you can calculate and it is calculated historically what a § 20-question on average costs to answer. I do not know, but all members of parliament, whether from a government party or from the opposition, have a constitutional right to be able to ask questions. The parties then have the party I am a member of and the Conservative People's Party, the Social Democratic Party and the Alternative completely free access, like journalists, to pull out the answers and put them in a context. That is why the parties have political economic secretariats and that is why we have party support. There's nothing unorthodox about it. Didn't the press conference deal with government policy? Well, it did. It was about describing the effects of the policy that has been pursued, resisting what was the alternative, and what could be the alternative, that is, the real alternative. Uffe Elbæk I get it) (Laughter And politics consists of choosing. I mean, I've been in a lot of campaigning, where others have gone into it in the way that there's our way and there's their way, right? And, yes, in foreign policy, it is our path that has led to the lowest number of asylum seekers coming to Denmark for 10 years; and that we can spend an extra billions out in the neighbourhood. Then there is another road that rests on relaxing. Is it not relevant to have parliamentary issues which, like what the quantitative effect of any relaxation is, so to have it dragged into an election campaign that comes at some point? It is not the government that has held a press conference. I mean, it's the Left Party that I'm a member of the press conference.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409135048	Thank you, sir. Uffe Elbæk. The next person to speak is Mr. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409135055	It is, of course, 9 April today, and I saw that the Prime Minister also fully justified the fact that it is a day worth marking because we never want Denmark to be occupied again. So it is all the more striking today to hear the Prime Minister speak of the time that has passed in relation to the flows of refugees, without mentioning that what we are talking about is the greatest humanitarian disaster since the Second World War, as if it has had no effect whatsoever on the world having seen the greatest humanitarian disaster since the Second World War. This is such a very good example of how freed from reality the political discussion in this area is. If anyone was in doubt before the day started, about how deep the Prime Minister will bow to power and what the Left will do, then the last remnants of doubt were cleared aside by the press conference that was held. There was no answer to the many children and young people who walked the streets the other day because they are worried that CO2 There was also no answer today to the many parents who are concerned about the conditions in the country's day care institutions. No, what was today was ritual tribal dancing from the Prime Minister, and if it were not because the concern was so urgent, one might, on such a day, want to give the Prime Minister a small panda clip to comfort him with the prospect of how bad things can go. But the reality is that on the other hand people sit and are speechless. The companies are stunned that the Left has gone away from the policy of foreigners, which was good enough for Anders Fogh Rasmussen, and which aimed at integration, where the refugees who did well had it talked to when it came to assessing whether they could stay. To accept the quota refugees, which it seemed to be part of belonging to the richest part of the world and to take responsibility, the Left and the Government have rejected. Perhaps there are also many who, after seeing the Red Cross' analysis of the conditions in Soulsmark, have the same question that I have for the Prime Minister at least. We have gone from 70 children in Soulsmark in 2017 to 93 children 7 months ago, and now there are 153 children. The Conservative mayor is requesting the closure of the Soulsmark Kaser. They're drowning in reports. They say 61 or 80%. of the children have a psychiatric diagnosis or would get it if they were properly understood. The question is: Is the Left and the government still away where you turn the blind eye and the deaf ear to a small group of children who are less well off than anywhere else in Denmark and live in conditions we would never accept on another spot in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409135346	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409135347	We don't turn a blind eye or any deaf ear into anything. It's nice to experience the commitment to a speech that is about everything and a complete • I think I'm wrong about who I and my party are, who the government is, what we've done, and how we look at humanitarian disasters. I'm gonna have to start a fight with the whole picture that's being drawn by us. It's as wrong as it gets. This government has done more than any government before, more than anyone before, to provide humanitarian aid in the neighbourhood areas, which are rightly described as disaster areas. My government has pressed for Europe to make the whole of Europe take a strong commitment to the whole of Africa. We are faced with a population that is doubled over a short period of time and we cannot build a fence that is high enough for those people to be unable to crawl over it. We cannot do that, and that is why we need to invest. We have pushed for the European Union to think this way. We are the number three country in Europe when it comes to putting money in the number three country in absolute kroner and penny or euro. There are only two countries among the 28 Member States of the European Union that spend more than we do in Denmark. Then you shouldn't be drawing a picture of me or my government as someone who doesn't care about people who are in need. We just believe, because we live in the real world, that the right way to do it is not to open the door and say: Kombardo, kombardo. Because it displaces our ability to maintain our own welfare society. It crowds out the possibilities of using development aid and we are among a handful of countries in the world that meet the UN's objectives of using development aid out there, where it makes a real difference. So I simply will not accept being portrayed as someone who does not have a proper heart. This also applies to the children in Soulsmark, the exit center, which, moreover, if I do not remember quite badly, was placed there while Mr. Morten Østergaard himself was in government. I understand that other thoughts have come to mind, and now it must not lie there, and there are rangers there too, when the exit centre itself was placed there. I think that those children in that centre should have proper conditions, but it cannot be said that they should not be in the centre with the parents they have, who are rejected and who should leave. Because if we relax here and really start giving an incentive not to cooperate with the authorities, then it will go wrong for us. So I am open to looking, also on top of the Red Cross report, at whether better offers can be created, better settings on Soulsmark. Of course we must be open to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409135648	Thank you. Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409135649	But the Prime Minister's speech just confirms mine because he talks about kombardo, or whatever it was, with a slogan that completely lacks respect for what you have been through if you come here as a fugitive. In reply to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl earlier I think the Prime Minister divided it into those who came and were welcome because they were labour and so economic migrants as if the concept of refugees did not exist at all. These are luxurious people who just show up where they are now invited to come uninvited, I think the Prime Minister's words were. But that is a strange way of looking at a country that actually has a proud tradition of taking responsibility, even when people in the world were persecuted. In recent times, the Prime Minister and his government are at least characterized by being the first to think that Denmark should take just a small share of the refugees who sit out in the camps. At least you can't run away from that. But there are also some children sitting in the Soulsmark Caser, and it is nevertheless interesting if today the Prime Minister will lift the veil of what you are going to do. It's not like it's cut short on criticism. There have been plenty of opportunities to do something. There have been plenty of analyses, consultation, parliamentary issues. But now that the Red Cross has brought the report, it may be, that's what makes the light dawn on the Prime Minister, so he will take action. I don't think that's going to happen with the Minister of Integration by himself. The only question is, what is it that the stateminster today is putting those children in the view? What kind of life can they expect that is now going to be better than the wretched thing they have today?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409135817	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409135818	Well, lack of respect is that, sir. Morten Østergaard shows to me when he links words that I attach to illegal economic immigrants that we should not look to the world's humanitarian disasters or people who are refugees. It's just not okay. If you are a refugee and come to Denmark and you live up to the way the refugee concept is defined in the international conventions, it means that you can be in Denmark. Then you have to be in Denmark, and then we have to give both the room and the heart room. That's the way it is. If you come to Denmark without being persecuted, you should not be here. There I understand that the Radicals have the soft point of view that everyone who comes here whether or not they are persecuted should be here. I don't subscribe to that view. Refugees must be helped if they come here. It is best if we can help them out in the vicinity so that they do not come here, but if they come, we must help them. We must be decent and we must help them as long as what they are running from is something they cannot return to. If you come here without a proper residence, you shouldn't be here. Then you have to go home. There's no point if you should go home and go home, but say you don't want to go home, we say: Well, it was just a joke that we said you weren't allowed to be here, and because you have a child, you just have to stay. That's not gonna work. It may sound a little hard, but it is also hard to live in the real world. Then I say that as far as the parents who have taken their children hostage are concerned, because that is what they have done. Of course, we have to find a balance in which those children, within the framework of the fact that we cannot accept that parents just get forgiveness for their lack of cooperation, have an opportunity to have a decent child life. This is also fundamental, we can see if we look at the Ombudsman's report. I understand, then, that the Red Cross, which basically doesn't think you should have an exit center there but it doesn't decide the Red Cross. Perhaps there are some suggestions as to how to improve conditions within the framework of the existing offer. I do not know the details of that, but we would surely be a strange government if we did not want to discuss it with the Red Cross, which operates that centre up there.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409140045	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409140047	I must, of course, bring out the very best in the Prime Minister, because I do not think there is a single person who, having seen the press conference and heard the Prime Minister's introduction today, is left with the feeling of the government that it actually wants to take responsibility for the world's refugees. What you want to take responsibility for is someone else doing it. Now that I am out in the way of getting the best out of the Prime Minister and we are talking about goodness and integrity, etc., I would like to ask the Minister of Integration's changing explanations in the matter of the separation of asylum couples. After all, the Ombudsman has gradually had to reprimand the Minister for Integration first for not having received all the relevant material and then for the way in which the words are interpreted. It has only to be noted, together with a large number of experts, that it is not possible for the Minister to maintain his changing explanations when it is measured against the factual facts which come out step by step when documents which should have been handed over to the Ombudsman appear. I would therefore just like to ask whether the Prime Minister still means what he said when he was not yet Prime Minister, namely, and I quote: if you deliberately sit and construct lies that mislead the Folketing, then of course you cannot have ministerial responsibility. If you deliberately sit and construct stories that mislead the Folketing, can you then have ministerial responsibility?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409140206	Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409140208	No one should consciously sit and construct lies, and if one deliberately sits and constructs lies we have seen examples of the past with distress lies and such things, but of course it doesn't work.Of course, one has to answer for the law of ministerial responsibility. In relation to the specific case, I have no reason to doubt it when the Minister for Integration says that she has had no ambition to implement illegal practices. And if you look at the situation, there has not actually been an exception-free practice, because there have been couples who were not separated. So the fact out there is consistent with the intention expressed by the Minister for Integration. I would also like to refer to her in the following terms. I guess there's nothing more I can do to refute the other picture that we shouldn't look into anything. Well, I think, sir. Morten Østergaard speaks up in a bed, which is crazy, in describing both the view of man and the policy of my government. But we will have the opportunity to discuss this at another time.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409140320	With that, we thank Mr. Morten Østergaard. The last party leader in the line is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409140328	When the government took office, one of the first things that was adopted was a coal-black agricultural policy: the agricultural package. The result was that nitrogen emissions from agriculture were virtually not reduced in three years. The government had to be dragged to the trough when a new energy agreement had to be made, where you first played out by dropping the coastal mills, the new offshore wind farms, and dropping the target of 40-percent reduction by 2020. The government has also repeatedly lowered the tax on petrol and diesel cars and done a minimum to promote electric and hybrid cars. Completely dew-fresh figures now show that Denmark's climate pollution is significantly higher than expected, both in 2017 and in 2018. This applies both when you look at the actual numbers and the corrected numbers, and it makes sense to look at them separately. For the actual figures one can discuss: it blew a little less. But the corrected figures and the overrun there are worrying. This is an overrun in the order of 10%. After all, the government in which the SF was sitting adopted a CO2 by 2020. This government has disguised it, and now we are very far from the 40%, and it is especially the consumption of oil that is considerably greater than expected in 2018. After all, the consumption of oil is about the transport sector. The government's reductions in registration fees have undoubtedly led to more diesel and petrol cars. The Prime Minister keeps claiming that he is the head of a green government. However, the new figures emphasise once again that green tie or green suit for that matter does not do so alone. There must be action for something the government has neglected. So, dear Prime Minister, can we not agree here today that when the Prime Minister claims that this government is green, it is the biggest political bluff in this generation?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409140535	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409140537	Oh, I think Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr can figure out her own answer. No, of course it is not, because it is true that it should be seen in action. I have had the privilege of being a member of a government for 14 out of the last 18 years, and thus having the right of initiative, sitting at the table in negotiations. There has been a short parenthesis in little 4 years. There we also participated in energy agreements, and in that bucket of years Denmark has moved significantly. We have now reached a broad and ambitious energy agreement with concrete three new offshore wind farms. We agreed on the location of the last one a short time ago: Thor, east of Lemvig. Power for 800,000 Danish households. We have set aside more money and agreed that we should sit together when we come a year or two further forward, because more needs to be done. That's why we're screening for 10 GW, that is, 10 GW corresponding to 12 offshore wind farms around the Danish waters. It's because we have to build some more. It is a completely credible way of achieving what is our goal, and we have set it ourselves and others have joined it, namely that we must be free of fossil fuels by 2050, and we must reach the milestone that by 2030, in 11 years' time, all electricity is green. That's the lead we're following. And even if you do not like it, there is international respect for it, and that is also why the UN Secretary-General, Mr Guterres, has asked the Danish Government to take the lead in an energy trail leading to the UN climate summit in September. You wouldn't do that if we were black.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409140734	Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409140735	I am very pleased that the Prime Minister refers to some of the major investments which the SF, the Social Democrats and the Radical Left decided at the end of the 1990s and which came to mean something in the 00s. For from 2001 to 2007, the Prime Minister knows very well that nothing new was adopted, for example. About sea winds. And we know that every time bourgeois governments come, they sit back in the chair and suck themselves up. And now I hear that the Prime Minister has new pointers, new ambitions on the other side of a choice, well on the other side of a choice. A climate law is also the government talking about, but it is a very empty shell, which the Prime Minister obviously does not want to unveil. If it were true that the government was green and climate-ambitious, then the new figures would lead to action right now. It's urgent. Is this something the government intends to do before an election? For the Prime Minister says he is in the work clothes; there is a long time for an election. The aim must be, when a report of this kind is presented, to take new steps to achieve its objectives, perhaps not by 40%. in 2020 but maybe in 2021 or 2022. SF is ready, we actually have some suggestions for action. We'd be happy to come.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409140847	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409140848	Well, there's no copyright in politics, so in case Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr thinks we're walking around and thinking something she's always meant, she should stop being so angry about it, but just enjoy it. It's kind of like something crawling about: I got it first, it's my package, and the rest of you can't play with it! Well, be happy. It's amazing that we live in a country where there's quite a broad consensus on making this transition, and we're in full swing. I mean, we're in the process of making a significant change. We have set the goal that by 2030, and it will not be long before 11 years from now, you will not be able to legally register a new petrol or diesel vehicle. That is a huge ambition. Now we have put some smart heads with Anders Eldrup in the lead to give some suggestions on how to get there without emptying the treasury. That is a huge ambition. When I come to meetings in the European Union, I meet colleagues who are worried about what Parliament has decided to reduce CO2 So, we have set an objective that goes beyond that. We're in the work clothes. As for the measurement of CO2 and when we have so much good weather in other years, i.e. seen with wind turbine manufacturers eyes, that we produce more than we can use, we have to send some of it out of the country. And if you look at a bucket of years like that, Denmark delivers. There is recognition of all other places where I am going, all over the world... all around the world... than perhaps right here in Question Time to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409141039	Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409141041	I'm happy to hand it out. SF does not need to be the only green party in Denmark. I'm happy to hand it out. But you don't have to make fake marketing, and that's really what I'm yelling about. It's a bluff. But now for something completely different. Because in the last question I would just like to say in all silence that I was watching some of the Left press conference here earlier today. And then SF's young vice-president, Signe Munk, said something very wise, which I subsequently wanted to say to the Prime Minister. She said, "Now we're going to the test, all of us politicians. We are entering an election campaign where the Danes expect to see political differences, but also goodness. Couldn't it be worth trying, including on the Left side?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409141130	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409141131	Yes, one hundred percent, and we strive for it every day: political differences and orderlyness. This also means that it is quite fair to call for facts, for example. When, for example, is a party that says that you want to give the right to everyone who feels worn out to keep up 3 years before retirement age, then of course it is a difference compared to those who say: we will not give such a right; it must be individually based, it must rest on some form of visitation. It's a difference you can tell. But if you're gonna have to take care of yourself, you're gonna have to go deeper. Of course you are. Because when you say you want to spend 3 billion... kr., which extends to about 3,000 people who can move from full-time employment to previous pension, and you won't say anything about who it is if it's the carpenter, if it's the blacksmith, if it's the HK, if it's the nurse, if it's the teacher or if it's the teacher. And that's why it's no use getting so sensitive that you don't dare be challenged on facts. Because then all we have is free play, where we can all travel with each of our adventures and each of our dreams about what the world should look like. Well, it's nice to dream, but it can't be daydreaming. We have to tell the Danes how to get there. Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr just stood up and challenged me to deliver on this green dream I have. What is so unfair about challenging others if they can deliver on dreams that it would be good to keep up 3 years before retirement? Well, what's the difference? There's no difference. So I look forward to a proper and fact-based election campaign. It's gonna be okay, but there's gonna be some time left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409141320	Thank you to the Prime Minister, and thank you to the authors. It can be said that the speaking time has been spent and completed today, and that is the end of Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409141332	The notification is as follows: the Financial Committee has submitted a report on critical infrastructure. 8. The report will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk. Agenda item 24, draft law amending budget law (proposal No. L 216), and item 25 of the agenda, draft parliamentary resolution pursuant to section 47 of the Constitution with regard to the state accounts for the financial year 2017 (motion for a resolution No. B 151), deleted from today's agenda as the Minister for Finance is ill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409141412	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409141457	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 87 by Leif Lahn Jensen, Hans Andersen, Laura Lindahl, Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Karsten Hønge and Anders Johansson. And a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 67 (S, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), against 37 (DF, EL and ALT), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 87 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 86 of Finn Sørensen, Bent Bøgsted and Torsten Gejl lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409141548	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409141626	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 86 (S, DF, V, LA, SF and KF), against 19 (EL, ALT and RV), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409141654	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409141711	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. We shall conclude the vote. In favour 105 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409141737	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409141759	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 101 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, RV, SF and KF), against 5 (ALT), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409141827	The negotiations are primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendments is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409141905	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 3 and 4 outside the supplementary report as adopted. They are adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2 of a minority, the Danish People's Party, joined by a majority, the other committee (except EL)? They are adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409141935	The debate then concerns the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409141940	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 103 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409142006	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409142027	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. We shall conclude the vote. In favour of 31 (DF and EL), against 73 (S, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. Motions for resolutions have been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409142058	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409142119	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of EL and SF)? They are adopted. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409142140	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409142209	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409142230	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409142254	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 to 5, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409142313	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409142350	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409142427	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409142450	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 by a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT) that the bill is divided into two legislative proposals. In favour of 14 (EL and ALT), against 86 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment on the division of the bill into two legislative proposals has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409142534	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409142555	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 by a minority (ALT), elected by a majority (the other committee) that the bill is divided into two legislative proposals? The amendment on the division of the bill into two legislative proposals has been adopted. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. I guess it's so small to stay calm in the hall again after the regular exodus. We are just letting the last of them get out before we get started on the first reading of Bill No. L 212.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409142643	We're opening the debate, and that's sir. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409142716	Thank you. After all, there has been a long discussion about the future in this area of the tax complaint structure. Before Christmas, however, all parties in the Folketing could reach an agreement to change the complaint structure and address the problem of over-long processing times experienced by citizens and companies for a long time now when they have had complaints for tax purposes. On average 23 months, citizens and businesses have had to wait for a case to be settled and dealt with, and that, of course, is no good. It is essential for confidence in our tax administration that you as a citizen and as a company see that your case is dealt with properly, effectively and professionally, and that legal certainty is at its top, and that therefore also means that there is a reasonable period of time, a reasonable period of time, and it is too long today. In addition to measures to bring down the processing times, the agreement also offers changes to the Board of Appeal structure. It has been in this way over a period of time that in some places they had their own assessment boards and tax appeal boards, and in some places where they had therefore mixed the tasks together in the Joint Appeals Board. And with the changes in the area of property valuation and an evaluation of the state of affairs in the complaint structure, we have now agreed to move to an assessment board and tax appeal board. As I said, this has been a rather long process. Back in May 2018, the Minister of Taxation set out what we thought was a centralisation, with only ten tax courts and significantly fewer members than today, who are thus involved in being laymen and involved in making decisions in the field of taxation when there are complaints. And we are pleased with the cooperation we have had between the parties. We took the time to get a good process and also came to a place where we could see that it had ended much better than what was planned, and therefore now 22 tax courts, 176 members and ten specially appointed. It is a little new that there should then be specially appointed, who are not only laymen, but also have some sort of extra insight. This is also one of the things to be included in the evaluation that has been made, but which we agree to, so that we try to have the ten specially appointed members in addition to those who are laymen and appointed, simply because they want to make the effort that it is to help to have a good tax review structure and assess these cases, and therefore also 15 rating boards with a total of 350 members. The agreement also makes some changes to the division of tasks. Several cases will be settled in the tax courts and the free choice system will be abolished, so that the more fundamental cases will still remain in the national tax law, but therefore more cases than are currently decided by the tax courts. The agreement also has some wordings which emphasize the role of the Tax Appeals Board as the secretariat for the mentionrs, and behind the way in which it is formulated there is in any case for us to see the view that the decision should not be taken on the board, but that it is primarily the secretariat and gives their input to the boards which have to take the proper decisions. However, more funds are being provided, not least at the Tax Appeals Board, where the cork has been in relation to reducing the processing time. There are a number of different consultation responses. After all, the Lawyers' Council and Danish Occupation point out that they are not entirely satisfied and that they do not believe that reducing the duration of the proceedings should be remedied by moving cases from the National Tax Court. You are quite right to point out that it is the Tax Appeals Board which is primarily a bottleneck for the cases. As I have said, we are very aware of this, and that is why it is also part of the agreement that we are providing more resources to the Tax Appeals Board and that actions are being taken to improve the effectiveness of the complaints process. There are also a number of persons entitled to a hearing who are concerned that the courts will be able to keep up if there is an increase in the number of cases due to direct judicial review, which will become possible more quickly than today. The Minister has assured us that the current possibility of judicial review has not led to a significant increase in the number of cases and gives an assurance that what is planned can be done. All in all, I would say that we are, of course, helping to implement the agreement we have reached and we think that we have ended up in a good place, which is much better than where the process started. There are still some issues that we would like to clarify, and also some issues that I am getting in from some of the people who are active in these appeal boards that we will then bring forward. All in all, however, we believe that a long process has ended with a good complaint structure, where laymen still play a major role and where hopefully we can do something strong and active to reduce the disproportionate length of time available in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409143221	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409143231	After all, we are discussing L 212 on a new Board of Appeal structure. This is not a matter that has had much media attention, and it is also an area that I think most people will hopefully not need. After all, it is a matter of the fact that when you have disagreed with the tax authorities, you must of course have a good opportunity to complain and have your case tested. However, for those people who then need to be complained, it is important that there is good legal certainty and that you get the best possible assessment of your case. There we have made an agreement from December 2018, in which all parties are involved, and that is why I can already say that the Danish People's Party supports the bill. The agreement deals, inter alia, with: on a new Board of Appeal structure, on Circulation, on the number of members of the Board of Appeal and on the complaints dealt with in the Boards of Appeal and the National Tax Court respectively. And as the previous rapporteur also mentioned, the aim is that there has been a very long time in which to deal with the matter, and that is what we have tried to do. It also has, of course, a legal perspective, i.e. that you have had to wait a very long time to get a decision on your tax assessment. The agreement is, of course, a compromise, and I think we all have it that way. Something is good and something is less good, but I think that overall it is a good compromise that has been reached. Normally you brag about what you have got into an agreement, but I would really like to say that I am actually really glad that there are some things we have taken out of the proposal that the government made from the beginning. Because there were a great many things in the original proposal that were actually a deterioration in legal certainty from my point of view, that is, where you went in and looked at how you could reduce the citizens' ability to complain. One example of this is that you, for example, have been able to do something about it. should not be allowed to attend and meet with the caseworker. We think this was a wrong approach, because the report that came out, that is to say the evaluation of the existing system, showed quite clearly, I think it was in the Tax Appeals Board that there was a challenge. So we did not think it was right that the rights of the citizen should be impaired. So I would actually just like to say that I think it is very good that we got something out of the draft that was originally on the negotiating table. The specific content of it includes a number of different things, but among other things. Some types of cases were moved between the tax courts and the National Tax Court. Some types of cases move down and others move up. And we think there's good sense in that, that is, the things we've found there. Then there is the opt-out system that will be abolished. In other words, before, there was freedom of choice for citizens to choose between a tax court or the National Tax Court. There has been some criticism of this in the hearings, and we do not think this is particularly good as a starting point. But it is, of course, a question of making better use of our tax appeal board, which, of course, did not receive much attention. And I think it is cancelled because many thought that they had a higher professional judgement of their case in the National Tax Court. in this agreement and also with the bill set some things in motion to strengthen the Appeals Boards. Among other things: There are ten professionals with tax insight into the Boards of Appeal. Some integration courses are being developed to increase professionalism from the start, and this is something that needs to be done with the tax unions. So in this way we will also strengthen the tax courts, what I believe and hope can make citizens feel good and fair treated there too. Then there are the initiatives to go straight to the courts so that you do not have to wait six months, and that is also an excellent initiative. So all in all, we think it is a fine compromise that we have reached widely among the parties of the Folketing, so that is why we can support the bill from my party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409143616	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409143625	Thank you. After all, we were faced with a situation in which we could see that the complaint times in the complaint system were far too long, and that is actually something we have been working on all the years we have had the power of government: in various ways to reduce the processing time. And one of the places where we could also work to do that was here with the board structure. Another challenge we had was that there was also criticism of the diversity and professionalism of some of the decisions of the Boards of Appeal. These were some of the things we looked into when we looked at what we should do in relation to the complaint structure. And that is why I am very pleased with the agreement that we have made with the Social Democrats, the Danish People's Party, the Enhedslisten, the Alternative, the Radical Left and the SF, to make both some tax appeal boards and some assessment boards, so that there is a greater focus on the narrow academic areas. Because it's not the same fields you have to concentrate on. We have held onto the layman's board because we think it is important that ordinary people are also included in these boards, but at the same time we have got some in with a strong professionalism in the specific areas. And we hope that will help to ensure that both this strengthened professionalism and a strong layman kick in what ensures that we also have a sense of what is happening locally in the various places. There is no doubt that it has also been difficult for us to abolish the free choice model, in relation to whether you would have your cases in the tax courts or in the National Tax Court. But we just have to admit that it didn't work very well. It helped delay matters. We had already to give it up in relation to the 3F cases that completely stopped the National Tax Court. Now we have taken the consequence and decidedly abolished it. But on the other hand, we have given the complainants an opportunity to bring the case directly to the courts without having to go to the prosecutor's office first, and I think that helps to ensure that there are still strong rights as a citizen. So all in all, this is a very good bill, which the Left supports.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409143845	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and then it is Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409143906	There's a good political agreement behind this bill. It is a political agreement which means that we strengthen legal certainty, the processing times, and that we strengthen the layman element in our tax review system. So the political agreement, and hence this bill, will ensure both that legal certainty is high and that processing times are down. It is an agreement which also means that 200 million will be added in the next few years. kr. to the complaint system. It wasn't certain it was gonna end here. When we had the first meeting on a hot day last year before the summer holidays, the tax minister came with ice, but the good taste of ice was inversely proportional to the content that was put forward at the meeting which was very disappointing. It was based on a report by a consultancy firm whose name I will not mention in today's debate, but the content, after reading the report from start to finish, I would actually describe as almost inferior because it completely ignored the fact that these long processing times we have had in the complaint system are rooted in a bottleneck at the Tax Appeal Board and not in a problem with the layman element of our complaint structure. Therefore, it is absolutely crucial to address that the Tax Appeals Board should have the opportunity not to be a bottleneck, but it should not be used as an excuse to destroy the layman element of our tax complaint structure. Fortunately, that was not where we ended up when the final agreement was in place. In this connection, I should like to take this opportunity to thank you for the good cooperation we had from Enhedslisten with the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party in this matter. One of the things that is happening is that the agreement brings 22 tax courts with 176 members, and that is a fine figure. That is, of course, the number of members of the Tax Appeals Boards in the present structure, as well as half the number of members of the Joint Appeals Boards that we have known so far. In addition, there will also be 15 rating boards with a large number of members. Overall, we actually see a significant strengthening of the whole layman aspect of the legislative proposal that lies here. When you look at the hearings, there are some points of interest that I would like to touch on. One is whether the courts will get a greater amount of cases. It is, of course, the case that national tax law will deal with matters of principle, and in this way it should be taken into account, but it is clear that we must follow developments and see how they are going to shape. The second point is that a great deal is being asked about the role and functioning of the ten tax experts. It is the case that the Minister of Taxation must lay down detailed guidelines for the use of these specially appointed experts. This is something that I think we in the Danish Parliament should follow a little bit. After all, it is about how something that is a layman's institution is playing with the fact that there are some people who have tax expertise. It may of course be beneficial in that the tax courts might be able to discuss more with the tax courts the assessments that come from the Tax Appeals Board, but it may also be an undermining of the very layman element of our structure in the area of complaints. So there can be some good and perhaps less good elements in it, depending on how the details of the tax minister will be drawn up in this context. Then I would also like to say that it may well be that, following on from the many in-depth consultation answers that have been received, I would like to ask some further questions which might provide further clarification on parts of the legislative proposal. But the starting point for Enhedslisten is, of course, that, as we think it is a good deal, we are in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409144340	Thank you, sir. Rune Lund. We move on to Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409144347	Thank you for that, President. My honourable colleagues have now carefully examined the content of this agreement, which we consider to be very good and which, of course, we are in favour of. Long processing times are extremely frustrating for citizens and for businesses. I do not think there is a single tax rapporteur who at some point has not had talks with citizens or companies who have expressed a deep frustration about it, they think, poor treatment they have met with. This is unacceptable for a well-functioning society like the Danish one. Well, then it's a good thing we're doing something about it now. We are changing the distribution of cases between the Tax Appeals Board and the National Tax Court. After all, the goal is that you get some competences in both places and can focus on what you then become really good at, and that in itself can help to provide more legal certainty and faster processing times. Complex cases must be dealt with by the National Tax Court, and simpler cases by the Tax Appeal Board. The Tax Appeals Board is upgraded with members with fiscal insight, and this is an element that we think is very good. And more resources will then be added to the case management process. So we think it is a step in the right direction, and of course we wholeheartedly support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409144526	Thank you, sir. Joachim B. Olsen. And we move on to Mr. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409144534	In the alternative, we are also in the agreement here, and faster and more effective access to complaining and a way through the complaint system is, in our view, very positive, and that is why I assume that a great many parties have chosen to back it in fact all the parties. In the alternative, this is a very good example of where we have reached the tax area. So, the content of this bill has been well examined by my fellow rapporteurs, so I would really just like to say that the vast majority of frictions that have also been pointed out in the hearings are some that we were already talking about at the time, as I remember, because we changed in the field of taxation at this time, and I also managed to get the ice cream, as Mr. Rune Lund mentioned earlier. But otherwise it has gone over to our tax rapporteur, Julius Graakjær Grantzau. I am confident that the conciliation circle will bring what needs to be included. But what I wanted to say about our role in the Alternative was that, in the first long period here in the Folketing, after we had entered, we stood a little outside and looked into the work that was going on in the tax field, and there it is indeed extremely gratifying, I think that we must now be some of those who, with weights and trisses and a compromise sometimes or often in this area, take responsibility. There was not necessarily such a great opportunity to take responsibility in this area, because it was a slightly more closed matter just when we came in, but there is no reason to hang on to that, because I actually think that cooperation in the tax field and with the tax minister has been quite exemplary in a very large part of the time we have been here. It is our responsibility to get it communicated to the people, because it will be a long time before our tax system works tip-top and a hundred percent. But it is still relatively unmanageably well and well digitized compared to the rest of the world. So let us stand together to communicate all the positives and be aware that it will be a long time before we do not need a complaint structure. We can try to make it more and more effective, but we must not have an expectation that the tax authorities will just use it out there without errors and shortcomings in the next few years. It would be a pity for those who should be involved in raising the tax authorities, and in particular the employees. So let us continue to strengthen the tax authorities, and we are, of course, positive about this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409144751	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409144758	Earlier today, the government held a press conference, which I think was mostly about trying to tell us what was wrong with the parties other than the government parties themselves. And that is why it is so gratifying that we are here with a bill in which all the parties of the Folketing have been able to come together to solve a problem for the citizens rather than just stand and scold each other. The problem that this bill must try to solve is the very long periods of complaint and waiting in the tax system if, as a citizen or company, you think you have been unfairly treated or errors have been made. With this bill, extra money is being set aside, about 200 million. kr., a new structure is being created and attempts are being made to clarify which bodies should decide which cases. We in the Radical Left believe this, as all the other rapporteurs have also said, can help bring down the processing times and create better procedures for citizens. That is why we are happy to support the bill. We would like to take this opportunity to thank all parties for the good cooperation we have had.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409144911	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409144932	The aim of the draft law here is, of course, to reduce the length of proceedings in the complaint system and ensure legal certainty for complainants; for citizens who think that they have been unfairly treated. But also, at the same time, to provide more resources. After all, this is part of a larger legal complex, part of a larger agreement that the Danish Parliament's parties agree on, in order to correct some of the things that have happened to our tax administration and at the same time also change the structure so that we can deal with any complaints that may come, because of course everyone has the right to do so. Now we are just changing the structure, so we are saying that we must also ensure the future of our layman system, while, of course, matters of principle still have to be able to go straight to the National Tax Court. I have also read the consultation answers that have come, perhaps not so many, but some of them are long, and there is, of course, a focus on ensuring that there are sufficient resources for the bottlenecks that are now and which may also arise, and of course I also think that we and the current tax minister should be aware of this at all times, so that we do not change a structure, but where there are bottleneck problems in ourselves, which mean that there are very, very long processing times. But I am optimistic that some of these things that we are changing now, in other words another structure and more resources, will make a clear difference. It is, of course, a legislative proposal that implements the agreement of December last year, which SF is also included in, and that is why we naturally support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409145127	Thank you to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. There are no brief comments. We move on to Mr. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409145136	Thank you. The legislative proposal here, as several of the previous rapporteurs have also mentioned, is the implementation of the agreement we have made to strengthen the system of complaints concerning the far too long procedural times that have been involved. Of course, it is not satisfactory when citizens experience that they are going to wait many, many months to get answers to complaints about the tax administration. That is simply not fair. That is why I think it is very good that we have come together in broad agreement that we need to improve this area so that we can both strengthen professionalism, but also create a good and future-proof complaint structure and have more resources added. What matters is, of course, that the right decisions are being made, but also that this is happening at a pace so that you do not sit out there feeling that this is something that is dragging on for too long, whether it is the tax administration, the citizen or the company that has the right on its side. In any case, it is important that there is an effective appeal procedure. In those words, I would also like to join the Glee Club of those who support the bill. We do the same from the conservative side.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409145249	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409145256	Thank you and thank you for the overwhelmingly positive receipt of the bill. It is always good when there is broad political support behind a proposal, because then, almost regardless of what happens, there is also a parliamentary election, which in principle, depending on when it comes, can interrupt the consideration of this bill. This indicates this in the light of the reports that the rapporteurs have given here today. It is a matter for me, as Minister for Taxation, to strengthen legal certainty in the field of taxation. It is crucial that both citizens and companies can be confident that when they meet the tax administration they receive proper treatment. This will be ensured, inter alia, by: We know that there are some rights and that we have reasonable rules. With the first three pieces of legal certainty, together with the parties that have backed them up, the government has, fortunately, made a great deal of progress in strengthening legal certainty in the field of taxation. However, it is important to me and, I hope, also to many taxpayers and companies who are rightly or wrongly caught up in the fact that we are sticking to and focusing on the legal certainty agenda. This is what the government wants to do with this bill, which translates the legislative initiatives in the agreement on a new appeal structure: a faster way through the appeal system, legal certainty package IV, which is also the heading of the bill. Legal certainty has been challenged in the area of complaints as a result of what a number of rapporteurs have also said, namely that it takes far too long to get an answer to your complaint. And just to put it at the forefront: if you as a citizen complain and there goes year after year when you do not get answers, then it may well be that after 3 years or 5 years or perhaps 10 years you get an answer, that you were right, but if you are not here anymore or are in another life situation, you cannot use that answer for much. So legal certainty in the appeal procedure, for my part, is also about the fact that there is a reasonable amount of time, from a complaint to a response to a complaint, and vice versa, that as a citizen or a company you have an obligation to make an informed complaint in the first place, that is to say, things you can do yourself to get faster treatment. But the processing time has been far too long in the Tax Appeals Board. We are then trying to do this with this agreement and this bill, if not up to it, but then help to bring down the processing time and, in particular, for new cases. A number of the measures put into effect in the draft law are, after all, about a more effective process of complaint and about increasing the productivity of the Tax Appeals Authority, while at the same time the tax insight is that it is not just faster decisions, but real decisions that come quickly. This will strengthen the legal certainty of both citizens and companies. The draft law must be seen in conjunction with a new structure for the appeal boards, which, after all, is preserved and future-proofed on a strong layman element with a focus on local anchoring. I would say that with the things we have agreed, we ensure a stronger layman representation than in the past, not only more laymen, but also a stronger layman representation. After all, we are removing what has been very popular in advisory circles, namely that you can choose from, whether you want to have your case dealt with in the Boards of Appeal or in the National Tax Court. There has probably been a tendency for some advisors to think that it was best for their clients to have the matter dealt with by the National Tax Court. There may of course be some professional reasons for this, but to some extent one cannot rule out the fact that there is cost compensation in one place and not the other, also plays a role in the distribution of the cases. Now we say that the smaller and non-principled cases must be settled by the tax courts and the more fundamental cases, and in particular those where external assistance is needed from tax lawyers and accountants or others, must be carried out by the National Tax Court and with the possibility that if a case is a matter of principle and has ended in the wrong place, it can come to the right place on request. So, with those comments, I would like to thank you for the reception that has been given to the proposal. I should like briefly to mention some of the points that have been made by a few of the rapporteurs. The Social Democrats' rapporteur, sir. Jesper Petersen is on the Treasure Appeals Board and on how it works. It is, of course, true that when not enough cases have been handed out to the Tax Appeals Boards, one can point to the Tax Appeals Board as a secretariat and ask if they have done their job well enough. There are certainly some things that could have been done better. Sir. Rune Lund also mentions it and refers to a report made by Deloitte that is not a secret which, according to the framework offer, makes consultant reports in the Treasury area, where there is also a look at how to optimize efficiency without compromising on the professional level. There we have had a board that has not worked optimally. The individual employees cannot be blamed for this, and I do not think that management can be blamed for it either. It's a product of the fact that back in 2013, when you made the latest change in this area, you created a whole new government, but it takes time to build up that governance. Departments of the board had also been placed in some places where it was difficult to recruit employees. It is typically lawyers who are to be recruited to the Tax Appeals Board, and at some of the sites they had, there was an employee turnover of up to 30%. a year. And if you build up a new board, where you have to hire a lot of new employees, typically newly trained employees, a place where you don't have that workforce, and where people have to commute a lot, you'll get into a situation where there's a large turnover of employees, and that, of course, puts itself in productivity. We have learned from this lesson, and that is why we can now value up and down the Tax Appeals Board as to where we can get the necessary manpower, and I think we have a much better management today than we had years ago. And with the changes that we are proposing here, a good regulatory and administrative framework will be created in the form of more money for more employees, ensuring that we can bring the processing time down to a reasonable level. Finally, I would just like to thank you once again for your cooperation with all those who have mentioned it. It has been a long process in connection with this legal certainty package, and there have been ice and other things involved, what Mr. Rune Lund also mentioned, as I was a big word of bribery, trying to make the rapporteurs in a good mood by making sure that they didn't negotiate on an empty stomach. I do not know whether it is because of it or because of the lengthy process, but we have at least ended up with something that I think is a good product and which suggests that all the parliamentary parties can back up. So I, too, would like to sign for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409150029	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409150041	The debate is open. Sir. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409150055	The bill here is a follow-up to the latest of the agreements, which include all parties in the Folketing, on a strengthened debt recovery and a part of the work of getting effective and well-functioning recovery of public debt and of the other creditors to whom the Debt Board is responsible for recovering debt. The draft law contains a number of simplifications of the legislation, nine or ten different elements which make it easier to manage this rather complex area and also make it much more easy to complete the IT system, which is now quite long, but which must then have all the claimants connected and be able to manage effectively afterwards. There is a simplification of the legislation, we have committed each other to, right and necessary in order to make it good. We support the measures contained in the draft law here. After all, the parties between us have already had a dialogue on them. I would like to add a little, because I think that we cannot have this discussion without touching on the great seriousness with which Parliament must look at the major challenges in the field of recovery. Later today there should have been a discussion which was then postponed because the Minister for Finance is ill, but which is, of course, about the state accounts, where the accountants simply have to make reservations about the state accounts, among other things. Because of these uncertainties in the correct accounting of the state. But it is with a very great deal of seriousness that they are looking at the large debt that has been settled, it is 118 billion. kr., the latest number is on? And how to settle such debts in the state accounts is also part of their concerns and the discussions we have, both in the Tax Committee and in the Finance Committee. It is highly problematic when you want all Danes to be safe that when they pay their taxes, others will also be charged what they may not have paid that you then experience that the debt can be so large. And so it is still one of the after-effects of centralisation and excessive optimism about the IT system that was left in the mid-00s and the firing rounds that followed, which we are still fighting with. Part of the way forward has been, on the one hand, to allocate the necessary resources and, on the other hand, to make simplifications such as those we are about to deal with now and hopefully implement relatively quickly. I just think it is important to say that we will not bypass the allocation of additional resources in the coming years. And as I understand it from the tax minister, you can't just have a dual operation of these two systems until 2021, but it's something that's going to continue in the coming years. Perhaps it is also behind some of the ideas about the need for additional funds for the tax department's area in the coming years, which the tax minister had to bear in mind: that it is really just a continuation of having to solve the massive problems of old debts in the previous recovery system, where a huge clean-up effort is now needed to ensure that data is in order before they can be put into the new one. The signal that has been sent in connection with the depreciation exercise here has also been really, really bad. I think it is also appropriate to mention here that it is simply necessary to do better on the part of the Ministry of Taxation when communicating with the citizens and taking steps to write off people's debts so that they know why it is happening. There has simply been doubt as to whether the debt that people are told they have had any legal force at all. We will make proposals to strengthen the tax administration and the tax administration. We have been doing this for a long time when it comes to monitoring, but we believe that more is needed in this area when it comes to solving the more urgent tasks. It may also be about the issue of vehicle taxes that have not been paid, which has also been the subject of a critical report. If it is possible to make manual recovery solutions that make the money come in and people experience that something is actually happening, it is extremely important, both to bring in some money that people owe, but also to experience a fiscal sense of justice for the citizens out. So we will continue to do this, and we hope that, in addition to making the simplifications contained in the proposal, we will also have full support in the Folketing to make a proper recovery system work and to bear the costs that will be involved. And that's where we haven't seen the last of them. I hope that support will be there, regardless of how the next parliamentary elections will end.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409150556	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409150604	After all, we are discussing another draft law on debt recovery. As far as I remember, it's number six or seven in the line. We know the background. After all, it is this common recovery system, the EFI, that has been abandoned. The debt is rising and rising to 117 billion. kr. Now. The development of a new IT system is now under way. One of the lessons of the old system that went down was that the rules were simply too complicated to create an IT support that worked. That is why we have now tried, in a great many legislative proposals and also in this legislative proposal, to take another round to simplify the rules, so that this is actually something that can be dealt with, both in terms of limitation periods and other things. We think this is a very good and important process, so that we can ensure that we also get a recovery that works. It is not just to get money in the box, but it is also about people's sense of justice, as the previous rapporteur mentioned. If you can see that some people can avoid paying their VAT, their fines or other things that they may have from debt, while others pay faithfully, then the sense of justice goes away. And honey is one of the pillars of our society. Because if people stop paying what they have to pay, there is no money for all the other good things, whether it is our health or our police or other good things. So it is simply important that we get this up and running and preferably as soon as possible. And there I think it is good and important that we in the Folketing should adopt some legislative proposals that actually make IT become more stable or more reliable by having rules that are actually manageable. So we in the Danish People's Party wholeheartedly support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409150746	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409150756	Thank you for the floor. I think the platform's gonna go down a little bit. I'm not quite as tall as sir. Dennis Flydtkjær. I mean, this is, like, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær mentioned one in the series of very many legislative proposals on recovery, and that is because when we got the government back in 2015, we discovered that it was awful with EFI, with the recovery system, with the entire tax administration. That is why our greatest investment task has actually been to restore the Ministry of Taxation's resort. This has been necessary, among other things. to stop EFI because it recovered illegally. We cannot live with that, and that is why we have had to stop the EFI and get things moving to sort out the claims that were lying around there. This has led to a lot of really unpleasant decisions, which are not at all popular and are not at all nice either. But that requires cleaning up and braveness and making decisions that are difficult and that you stand up for them. I have been pleased that we have been able to do this together, because it is actually all the parties of the Folketing that have supported the process we have been through. I would like to sign for that; I am extremely pleased with the cooperation we have had. I also think it is necessary for us to stand together in this, because we cannot be supposed to argue about how to run a tax administration. It is okay that we may disagree on how taxes should be made in relation to each other, but there is no one who can disagree with the fact that taxes should be collected and that you have to pay what you have to pay. It must be a political decision by us in Christiansborg if people do not have to pay taxes or have to be put down in taxes. It's not something you just do yourself. So I am glad that we have been able to stand together on this bill on the simplification of recovery as well. It is absolutely necessary that we have these simplifications done. There are, of course, many other places where simplifications would be desirable, but nevertheless this is one of a whole series of proposals for simplifications in the area of recovery. This is about simplifying the rules on obsolescence. The aim is to make the digitalisation and administration more simple in the field of taxation, and these include: on the handling of set-off for transport, legal fees and situations in which several debtors are liable for the same claim, and then clearer rules on debt cancellation are laid down and the rules on write-off as part of the follow-up to the abolition of the special scheme on debt cancellation for groups of socially vulnerable persons are adjusted. It is, of course, in order to obtain more effective recovery, but also to ensure that in future we do not encounter the same problems that we have had in the area of recovery and which I hope will be completely solved. I must be quite honest and say that I am not sure that all skeletons are completely out of place, that all the problems there are have been found, but work is being done on it, and we have jointly taken responsibility for this, and I think we should continue to have a responsible line in this. So thank you for your cooperation with the parties that have been involved. The Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409151111	Thank you. And we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409151131	This is a bill with a number of mostly technical and, what to say, clever changes to the legislation that make it easier to create IT support. And then, in fact, the draft law also contains one significant improvement, I would say, of a social policy nature. It's a little interesting when we have these conversations, which are mostly going on over at the Treasury. Because when we discuss the issues contained in this bill, it is really tax policy, IT policy, justice policy and social policy at once. This makes it very complex, and it also makes it very interesting, but it also means that we must, of course, be very precise in the discussions we have and that we must be very precise in the legislation that we end up adopting. We can support the ten elements of this. There is one thing about the sixth and seventh initiatives that I intend to ask a few questions on behalf of the Enhedslisten in connection with the committee procedure. The first concerns the legal charge, that is to say, point 6, the number of natural persons who are expected to have to pay the legal charge several times a year for the same claim in cases where the same claim is made again because it was not possible to recover the debt at the first post office. The second is paragraph 7, and it is, of course, a question of extending the possibility of writing off debts for people who do not have the ability to pay and who have an unresolved financial situation. This is something that we have wanted for many years, that is to say, to make it easier to write off debts for people who obviously have no ability to pay. It can be people who have had a social event, it can be socially vulnerable or others who may not have recovered, or it can be about other situations, but where there is simply no chance that the money will come in, but it will give people an opportunity to move forward in their lives if you remove a debt that there is virtually no possibility that these people with a very low ability to pay back. There I think it might be interesting to drill out a little what the economic consequences etc. would be if more objective criteria were to be introduced as to when debt write-off can be made, for example. If people have been out of payment and on cash benefits for 3 years, is that where you can write off the debt, or should it be in 4 years or 5 years? In any case, this is something that I would like to ask a few questions about during the committee procedure. Then it is true, as several others have said, that this discussion can be difficult to take independently of our general discussion about the tax administration. And there is no doubt that the recovery system really was abused when we had a bourgeois government in the '00s. The current Minister of Finance, sir. Kristian Jensen, was the tax minister then, and it has to be said that the everlasting cuts and restructurings and the fact that our tax administration was spared are what has led us to find ourselves in the miserable situation we find ourselves in today. After all, we had hoped, when a new government came in 2011, that the direction was fundamentally changed. Unfortunately, it did not continue to do so to a large extent. But we have to say that what is happening now is very positive, because we are not discussing how much cuts are to be made, how much has to be destroyed in our tax administration, but actually how much has to be invested and how fast it has to go. And that is a very positive direction. It is also the case that the tax minister has been out to say that 13 extra billion will now have to be invested in order to fill up the cliffs after 2019. The Minister of Taxation has not specified where the money is to come from. In any case, I can say that the position of Enhedslisten is that we should actually clarify it before we go on summer holidays in the Folketing. And that is something to create security, because when you have to organise your budget in the Danish Tax Authority or in our tax administration as such, you cannot plan how many employees you have to have or who you might have to lay off or not re-engage from birds on the roof in relation to political signals that at some point you have planned to give 13 billion. kr. to the area. After all, it must be based on concrete appropriations and concrete political decisions. And it's not too far from August/September and then to New Year, so if we're going to create security about our tax administration, we're actually going to have to make an agreement before the summer break on how much money is going to be spent, otherwise we're going to create uncertainty.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409151644	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and that is why we thank the rapporteur and move on to Mr Vandemeulebroucke's report. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409151651	Thank you for that, President. We have a very complicated tax system in Denmark and the complexity has costs. It has been very difficult to digitise the tax collection, and it has been found to entail even very high costs, but it has also had other costs. I believe that the complexity in itself weakens citizens' confidence in the tax system, because for a great many citizens it is simply difficult to see through the tax system. In some areas, of course, it is worse than others, but if you take the whole area of capital taxation, I honestly do not think that there are very many people in this country who can fully explain the rules. Here we are taking a step towards simplifying tax legislation, in order to make the new recovery systems work, and that is really, really, really good. However, we should actually have a broader discussion about our tax system. It should be possible to agree on a broad simplification of our tax system. I am thinking here of revenue-neutral restructuring, where, of course, a little should be given and taken, and perhaps that is what will ultimately be the problem. I believe that the citizens will reward us if we in the Folketing could put ourselves together and have a thorough simplification of our tax system, even in the light of the fact that it is quite clear that the complexity has thus had a high cost. But I know that this is a major discussion, and it is not the one that has been set up right now, so right now I would just like to welcome the fact that we are taking a small step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409151850	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we move on to Mr Beazley's report. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409151859	I think we all share the desire of the Liberal Alliance rapporteur for simpler tax legislation. Whether you are ready to do what needs to be done is both a political issue and perhaps also a question of timing. Right now, I think it is a good thing that we are getting the structures under control and also getting the extra investment that needs to be made. For it is my clear view that it is certainly not only because it is complex and that there have been errors and shortcomings, but it is also because there has been a massive round-shavening of the structures and resources that were in the SKAT over the past many years. However, the value of tax workers and the quality and sometimes the bureaucracy of tax treatment are important. We, the alternative, are even a party that would like to debureaucratize and make things simpler, but sometimes I think we should also be aware that bureaucracy also has a function. Sometimes there is some professionalism that is backstopping, so that bad decisions are not allowed to run through. So the balance is important, and there again I think we have helped across all parties to make a good deal here, and we support it. My final comment should just be in relation to the foundations on which we are also discussing here. It's an IT foundation. In other words, the EFI was a digital solution, or at least a digital structure, because a solution was never real. But anyway, the new solution that we are then in the process of creating, I actually think it's part of the story to tell a little about. Because when I meet IT professionals, they are very, very sceptical about the new system that is coming, also in relation to the property assessment area. And that is clear, because these are monstrous tasks that we are facing and which we are really trying to do in a sensible way. And there it is my communication to them that what is at present. is done by the Danish Parliament's parties with the tax minister in the lead, so everything else is the best possible from all the knowledge you have right now and here, and all the history there is. So when we are presented with how we actually work on matters, and when we see documents that we have to approve in the continuous work, with the agreements that we have already agreed to, and with the agreed economy, I would say that it is my view from the point of view of such sensible layman knowledge that I have for IT systems and how to work around both the private and the public, that the way you work with it is state of the art. This is the best way to work with the suppliers you have purchased from. And that is not exactly the expectation you might have out there, because you have heard stories about, to say the least, not very flexible or agile waterfall systems and models and processes. But at least throughout the whole period I have been in here, it has been my clear opinion that everything I have been presented with in here shows that the lesson has been learned. So there is a great deal of hope on my part that what is coming will actually be very good. However, as I said in my previous rapporteur's speech, this does not mean that there is no error. There will be 100 percent sure to be errors; it will always do so with such IT solutions. And there is the danger and the political shame that one can hardly go out as a responsible minister and tell about: yes, of course there will be mistakes. But it is again an expectation vote that we must be much, much better at. And it could, among other things. I would like to point out that, at some point before too long, we are being assisted by a digital ministry which can help to take some of the responsibility from the shoulders of the busy ministers, so that they do not have to stand and have full 360-degree knowledge in the digital field too, but can get some support for us rapporteurs in the various areas too, when we have to go in and look at not only records we have to approve, but also legislative proposals. So again, I would like to express a great deal of respect to the Treasury and the hardworking people who help bring this back to us to start with the status quo in relation to this very good tax system we have had and actually still have. And then we must hope that there will be massive progress, which we will also feel as citizens soon. At least everything you can is being done. And professionalism is at stake in the right way. And we need to tell that story. So I also hope that the tax minister will be involved in the discussion whether it will be in niche media such as Version2 or Computerworld to tell in-depth stories about how to simply work with the individual systems, so that people can get that story with and become ambassadors so that what was previously called SKAT actually works in the right way when we develop new IT systems. It's not necessarily the history, but people have become wiser.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409152325	Thank you to the rapporteur. No brief remarks, and that is why we move on to Mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409152333	It is, of course, a major problem for a society such as the Danish one, when our tax administration does not work and taxes are not charged, and people who owe taxes are not charged what they owe. That is why we are happy to participate in the cooperation with the government and other parties to have a recovery system in the Ministry of Taxation that works better than what we have seen in recent years. Therefore, we would also very much like to support this bill, which aims to make some very technical changes, but which should make it easier to create an IT system that can recover what people owe. Surely there may be a need for this. We take the words of the Treasury and the Treasury Minister for good goods when they say it's some of this that needs to be done. Of course, this initiative in this law cannot stand alone. The most important thing that happens in these years is that both personnel and IT are invested in order to create a system that works. In this context, it is of course interesting that the government has chosen to decentralise and create more governance and recruit more people, which is the exact opposite of what is being done in the health services at the moment, where you want to centralise it in the state. It could have been that we should have considered looking at what has happened to the tax administration instead. However, we support this law and we are also willing to support several other initiatives to improve recovery.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409152510	Thank you to the rapporteur. No brief comments, and that is why we move on to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409152517	A common recovery system sounded too good to be true, and that is what we found out, and we have spent the last 31⁄2 years together cleaning up the IRS and getting investment back. The Minister for Taxation has made various structural changes, and all this is also on our shoulders, because it is our responsibility to ensure a tax administration in which citizens can once again have confidence. And there's this bill with a number of different elements, of course, a very important part of it. My colleague from the Radicals also mentioned up here from the need to constantly look at investments. Is there enough investment for what we have to solve? That's one part of it. The second part is that in order to restore the confidence that citizens would like us to have, in other words that we are on the right track again, we need to be very clear about why we are making some of the controversial choices we are making and to be very clear as to why some are receiving letters of debt cancellation. Perhaps we should also discuss what we are doing about the total debt, which is just getting bigger and bigger, not because there are actually a lot of new debts, but because there are some interest rates that are running on and making the debt grow completely by itself. I think we simply have to deal with this last point, because even if some of our governments and the Debt Authority are actually demanding debt, then it is going to be slower than the interest rates are running on. And that means that every month, every year for a long time, we will have to discuss why this debt just gets bigger and bigger on paper. That's why we have to discuss whether we should charge interest at all, whether we should write off any of this debt when it comes to some of these debts, where people don't have the ability to pay, so tear the patch off in one piece. This is not an easy decision, because we are also accountable to all the Danes who pay their taxes and do not owe money, because there must be reasonableness in it. But we also know that a large part of this debt is not being recovered at any time, because it is not possible because people do not have the ability to pay or because there are other reasons why it cannot be recovered. So I think that this is one of the discussions we need to have. I would urge the Minister to take the initiative. This is one of the major reasons why it is so difficult to restore confidence in the tax system that we must constantly discuss why the debt on a somewhat fictitious basis just grows and grows. The last point I would like to make is that I have already mentioned to the Minister for Taxation. And it is in relation to some of the very large debts that may be where individuals seem to have managed to recoup a debt of a two-digit, perhaps three-digit million dollars, while at the same time having no income. It might be that you should look into it a little more closely. The IRS has some control projects. We also have gang members and other criminals in this country who live in some very, very nice houses and drive some very, very large cars without any income, which is also being investigated. At least I think we should do that before we write off in relation to them. But I just think that my message from up here today is that we have to do something about the debt in order to move on. SF supports the bill, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409153007	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Anders Johansson, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409153014	Thank you. The purpose of this bill is to simplify and amend legislation relating to the recovery of debts by the tax administration so that, in the future, a more secure and effective recovery of public debt can take place. The Danish tax system is far too complicated, and that is actually a large part of the reason why it went so wrong with EFI. When you have a very complicated tax and recovery system, it also requires a very, very large IT system to support the legislation. So we must therefore create a simpler system and that is what we are taking a step to do now. It can also be said that this is a small step towards restoring confidence in the tax administration. It is a long process, but we are now taking a step in the right direction. With what we are doing now, we are making the rules simpler in relation to obsolescence, and we are also making the legislation more clear with the aim of making digitalisation more flexible and simpler. This is, for example, the case. on the handling of set-off for transport, legal fees and situations where several debtors are liable for the same claim; all small, sensible measures, which will give us a slightly simpler system so that it will also be a little easier to ensure proper recovery. It is a long journey we are making, but this is a small step in the right direction and we can of course support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409153146	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409153154	I would also like to thank you for your positive reception on this proposal. It is, of course, against a sad background that we need to re-establish a fully functioning debt recovery as a result of the fact that the area has not been a priority over a long period, in fact for the last ten years. So I welcome the broad support for this proposal, which is one of a series of simplification proposals in the area of recovery, which will make it more efficient, easier and simpler and last but not least, legally to recover debts from people who do not pay what they owe. I would also like to acknowledge that all parties in the Folketing have once again chosen to take responsibility and back the legislative proposals in the field of recovery that we have adopted over the last two years. I have, of course, recently held a press conference on the momentum of tax administration, where I presented the momentum in the field of recovery and appealed for political support to continue to invest what is necessary in the tax area, which, of course, guarantees revenue for the financing of all welfare areas. It is not because as such I am proud of it as a liberal minister, but it is on my watch as tax minister that we have crossed the billion into tax revenue. So there will be 1,000 billion. kr. in a year. So while there are problems and challenges, there are some very fundamental things in our tax administration that work and that also work in spite of problems and to an extent that makes other countries and other tax administrations, to put it bluntly, deadly envious of Denmark. But that does not mean that the things that do not work should not be resolved, and we are doing so here in the area of debt. It is important to ensure that we can recover debts from those who owe. Fortunately, there is good momentum. It is progressing in the area of debt recovery and, as I mentioned at the press conference, the tax administration has now begun to recover in the new IT system and is in the process of connecting the claimants. Those who own the debts that people owe to the new IT system. A specialised board has been set up, the Debt Board, and we can also see that the work is already bearing fruit. In 2018, the Danish Debt Authority recovered 7.1 billion. kr., and that is the highest figure in recent times. The draft law we are dealing with today strengthens recovery on a number of points. The proposed amendments are aimed at simplifying and system-supporting the obsolescence sorting in the new recovery system. A number of the rapporteurs have also referred to this and the proposal thus provides for further simplifications of the rules on limitation periods. However, there are also proposals aimed at making the digitisation and administration of areas such as set-off, court fees and the handling of multiple debtors on one claim more flexible and simple. In addition, it is proposed to clarify the rules on debt cancellation and to adjust the rules on debt write-off for socially vulnerable persons. With those words, I should like to say thank you for the comments that have been made. A number of people have said that there are some areas to be followed, and there is a good opportunity for this in the committee's proceedings towards the second and third readings of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409153516	I should like to make a brief comment from Mr Seligman. Jesper Petersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409153520	Thank you. I have two questions. One is that I would ask the Minister of Taxation to confirm that when he has talked about this need to fill up slopes in the coming years in the field of the Treasury, that is to say, that there is really a prospect of lower appropriations, and it would not be wise to do so so far, it is a view that stands for the taxpayer's expense and nothing at present. is government policy. The second question is specific here in the area of recovery and is somewhat related to the first question I am asking: is it true that it will be the case that it will not be enough to have double operations until 2021, but that there is a need to extend it and therefore also, once again, to break off the obsolescence of claims that would otherwise become obsolete if the Folketing does not intervene? Did I... [Sound Outlook].
ParlaMint-DK_20190409153611	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409153612	In conclusion, I can confirm these two points. With the knowledge we have today, things can happen, and it can suddenly go much stronger than what we are counting on, but at the moment one must expect that one should do obsolescence also after 2021, and that one should have had it for longer. Both are manageable if there is support for it in the Folketing, and I have noted that there will be. In relation to the other, in relation to what I mention at the press conference, I can say about these 13 billion. kr., say that if the grant from 2015 until now, which is about 21⁄2 billion. kr., will continue also in the following budget estimates years, which will show up in the context of the 2020 Finance Act, then this money will be found. It is not necessarily the same as that it is the amount needed by the tax administration, but it is merely a calculational technical projection of the current level of appropriations. And my message, which I share with colleagues in this government, is that there will be a need to invest more money in tax administration than we have invested. But that is something that must be lifted on the Finance Laws, and this government has done so in the four years I have been Minister of Taxation, and I do not think that any minister in this government, including my Prime Minister, will tear down what we have built up over the last four years. That is why, of course, a solution will be found to the framework for future tax management.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409153730	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409153732	Thank you for the clear answers to what were the confirmations. Now I do not think it has been communicated so clearly before that it will be necessary to have parallel operations for another three years, so we can all deal with that. On the last point, I would like to say that it is just my experience that, when the Left has been in opposition, they have been less interested in appropriations for the tax administration. So shall I take the last as a commitment that the Left will back it up by having these appropriations filling up the cliffs, should the Left lose government over the coming months?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409153810	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409153811	I can say that it is my experience that my party has learned lessons from also the things that have gone wrong during the period we have been responsible for the Treasury and I have heard the Minister of Finance in this government say that yes, that has been saved and streamlined too hard on tax administration. Conversely, it is also the Finance Minister who has found the money to give a total of 13 billion in finance law. kr. to tax administration, which is why, of course, we will also take responsibility for future funding on our hands. However, what the precise funding that is needed is, you only find out when you have to negotiate Finance Act 2021, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409153848	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409153852	When does the tax minister really think that we need to clarify the budgetary situation in our tax administration for 2020? Because if there is no clarification fairly quickly, it will be summer vacation, and then we will soon be on the other side of the holiday. And before Christiansborg starts again, we will be there in October, and if there are any political agreements to be made, we are already so far along this year that it has been so long that people may be uncertain whether their jobs exist after New Year. Or that people in temporary employment may not know if they get it extended, because as head or head of the tax administration one cannot base one's planning of the work of one's office or management on loose expressions or birds on the roof of the Assembly Hall. There has to be a specific appropriation that can be used to hire people. My view is that we will actually have to make a political agreement before we go on summer holidays, which will provide security around the minimum budget of our tax administration by 2020. What's the tax minister's bid?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409153957	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409153958	Now we don't know when there's going to be a parliamentary election. However, there is plenty of time for a new government to take place, and I hope, of course, that it is the government that is now in place that can continue to follow the normal budgeting process towards the presentation of a Finance Act in August, where you can relate to what is needed for the tax administration in 2021 • find the money or decide to call for negotiations. Such an agreement could be good before the summer holidays, but I do not think so, even in the light of the political reports that are being given, that is the way it can be done. Nor will it change anything for the tax administration that it will only be announced in the 2020 Finance Act, which will be presented in August. It is, of course, true that the second would provide more security for employees, but there are no appropriations running out before 2020. After all, there are a number of months left, even after a parliamentary election.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409154100	Sir. Rune Lund, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409154102	Is what the Minister of Taxation is saying to be understood by the budgeting work that is going on right now and where one can expect, because we are now at the beginning of April, that the underlying offices and agencies have made their announcement that what is in the cards is, as such, that the appropriation for 2019 will certainly not be lower by 2020? So the cliff, so to speak, will be filled by 2020? Is that what the Minister of Taxation is saying about the work that is going on right now?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409154132	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409154133	No, it must be understood that we are following the normal budgeting process, as has been done in the last four years, which has led to the addition of 13 billion. kr. This government has been in charge of that. Then there are many parties that have backed up, but it is the government that has taken the money out of the room for manoeuvre that was and given priority to the tax administration. And I also have the expectation that what we have built will of course not be demolished. Then, as a personal remark, I have said in relation to this, what the level of the tax administration's budget should be: perhaps at some point you have to consider whether it should be permanently higher than what we have expected, where you have thought it may be temporarily higher. Then you run the risk of temporarily becoming a permanent high level, and you have to deal with that politically, and you can do that next year.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409154215	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409154239	The debate is open. Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409154248	Thank you for that, and thank you for the opportunity to talk about an important issue here today, namely the whole of our European cooperation. I would very much like to talk about the great advantages of free movement, which I think we should be determined to safeguard. I would also like to talk about the specific challenges associated with free movement in terms of the unacceptable conditions and illegal practices that may occur. That is why the government is also concerned about doing something about it. However, we are concerned about what we can do about it here and now, or at least in the near future. If I were to talk about the benefits of the European Union and the internal market, I would start by saying that this is now the same as kicking in an open door. The Danes are more convinced than ever before. This is probably due in particular to the fact that Britain is currently a test laboratory, it can be said, for how people can see what it will mean to be outside of binding cooperation. And it has become apparent that the European Union is a genuine common market. But it may also mean something that we have a visible Danish Commissioner in the field of competition, which among other things. has given the large tech companies a number of large fines which the individual countries could not have dealt with individually. More facts have therefore come into the debate and we know that more facts are generally good for the political debate. After all, the Danish Parliament has had its own inquiry into this matter. The Danish Parliament thus measured the positions of the participants in the Danish Parliament's meeting six months ago and measured both before and after the meeting. Before the public hearing, 38% thought. of the participants, that Denmark should join the EU without or with fewer reservations than today, and after the popular consultation the number had risen to 59 per cent. So with others, facts are a good thing. Therefore, when we come to the question of a labour market protocol, I would also like to take a look at the facts. I believe that the fact is that the right to free movement and the rights of workers are equal. I think there is a legal basis for saying that, and here I can also refer to the answers that I gave in the Committee on European Affairs last week. So, in order to get a little more clarity on the table, I would also like to start with two examples, which I think illustrate some challenges posed by this motion for a resolution. If, in a public tender for construction tasks, the Region of Flanders requires workers to speak fluently in the interests of safety at work, they will be able to do so by means of a protocol without a proportionality assessment because the protection of workers takes precedence over freedom of movement. Is that how the protocol is to be understood? And if, in an invitation to tender for the digitisation of documents, the City of Dortmund requires that the workers of the suppliers should be subject to German rules of termination, they have previously had a contract with a Danish company and they think that the Danish companies are engaged in unfair competition with their flexible contracts of employment, will they be able to impose such a requirement by means of a protocol? I understand the authors of the motion for a resolution that they believe that what Flanders and Dortmund have received here should be allowed to do. And I believe that in many ways it will put an end to the internal market. But we can think about all sorts of other examples where the Member States can cover themselves in protecting workers' rights, and that will also affect Danish companies and their workers abroad. The practice of the European Court of Justice, as it is known in particular in the area of goods, has meant that Member States are not able to make every possible creative leap to restrict free trade in the internal market. At the same time, the caselaw of the Court of Justice has meant that, where Member States have legitimate grounds, they may adopt their own measures if they are proportionate. Of course, this requires that no directive or regulation has harmonised the specific area; then, as a starting point, an EU country cannot impose higher requirements in the directive or regulation. A directive and a regulation reflect the fact that EU legislation has balanced the various considerations, so that it is, of course, binding. With a protocol, you're gonna put this whole mechanism out of effect. When the government is required to work for a protocol, it is a reasonable requirement to make it clear what the protocol means. In fact, I do not think this proposal is quite clear. I also understand that the proposers want protection against wage dumping, and we do not, according to the Treaty today. The authors of the proposal state that, inter alia: is intended to prevent us from introducing a minimum wage. But that is a lot to ask of the other EU countries. The other EU countries must allow us to introduce a restriction on freedom of movement, because if we tell the other countries that we want to be allowed to introduce rules on equal pay for equal work, then they can say: there you are free to do so. Apart from that, I do not want to change anything fundamental about access to the Danish labour market, so even if the other countries allowed us to do so, I do not think it should be used. Indeed, we benefit greatly from the many workers who come here, and here I would like to refer to the answers I have given. Finally, I would like to say that there are specific challenges that need to be addressed. It cannot wait for Treaty changes that can take years and days. Moreover, I do not think that a change in the Treaty would help very much. Of course, we can regulate so much, but it doesn't help if smart backers can bypass the rules by making structures such as this. mailbox companies and the like. And if we put forward the wish for a treaty change, I think we will open Pandora's box where the other countries may have wishes that will undermine our Danish labour market model. Because we cannot and should not wait for an amendment to the Treaty, it is essential that we take action with enforcement and control, and we must do so at national level, but we must also do so at European level. I would like to continue the dialogue on this in connection with the committee's work, which is now going to take place between the first and second readings, and I would also, of course, like to elaborate on my views on the case law, as I have explained in the recent replies to the European Committee. In essence, I think that this area should be examined in greater depth before this motion for a resolution could be supported, and that also means that the government cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409154856	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409154901	In fact, at first I thought that the Minister for Employment had had the wrong speech and that we were going to talk about brexit, and then I thought that I also put forward a proposal on this a few years ago, which was dealt with in this Chamber. But then we got back on track, in other words to the extent that the Minister for Employment has read this proposal. For the Minister for Employment says that it is unclear what the proposers want. You can't say it is. It is crystal clear what the authors of the motion for a resolution want: we want to restore the law of conflict, because it has been disregarded in several judgments of the European Court of Justice. And that's what we won't put up with. After all, the Minister for Employment knows that earlier, in fact in the previous session, there was an excellent proposal from the Enhedslisten, which unfortunately had a problem with a standstill clause on social benefits, which we then got out of this. But the fact is that the Danish labour market model is already being undermined in these years and has become so over and over again. And I just want to ask the Minister for Employment quietly: if it is not to be this, what on earth is the Minister for Employment going to do to avoid it?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409155013	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409155015	I think it is a rather diffuse question. First of all, I'm not buying Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth's premise that this is a clear proposal. A large number of judgments have been referred to, which I do not think is a correct reference. I have also explained this in the answers given to the European Committee of Parliament. In fact, I think that deserves a greater legal review. In general terms, I also believe that Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth is usually concerned that one should agree on what the scope of the judgments is before one uses them in a resolution. I think that is more of a matter of principle, that is to say that we are not just sitting here on an afternoon like this and thinking that it may be they who form the basis of the case-law. In addition, however, I believe that there is much to be done in relation to better national management of some of the challenges we have. I am therefore delighted that last week the FH and the DA made a proposal to me which should allow for better control throughout the transport sector to mention one area and that will be discussed with the social partners.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409155121	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409155123	So what is diffuse is the Minister for Employment's answer to what the Minister for Employment intends to do if it is not to be here. It's extremely diffuse. And the Minister for Employment is also using some strange straw-man arguments, such as: this with the region of Flanders and the ability to speak Flemish. Is the Minister for Employment aware of Danish agreements where Danish is required to speak Danish? Does the Minister for Employment have it? For that is only relevant when we have a concrete example of a Danish agreement that makes that demand. And then it is a question, if it comes to conflict, whether it is the Labour Court that has to decide it, and not the European Court of Justice. I have to say, I have more faith in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409155159	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409155201	I'm not going to interfere with what Kenneth Kristensen Berth has faith in. It will go far too far for me to conclude on that. Let me just say that I am against this proposal because I believe it is based on a false premise. That is also what I have answered in a large number of questions to the Parliamentary Committee on Europe. I do not believe that the conclusion drawn by Kenneth Kristensen Berth and Dansk Folkeparti does escape with the content of the judgments. That is why I think it might be appropriate to pat the horse a little bit before you just jump to the conclusion. And so I believe that there is still much to be done at national level to deal with some of the challenges that exist in relation to unfair working conditions for migrant workers.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409155239	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409155241	Thank you. It is a bit funny that the Minister cannot deal with the premise underlying such a proposal and also the proposal which Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth earlier referred to. For the Minister has clearly described what the problem is, and the Minister has done so in his reply to Question 167 where the Minister says: It follows from the Laval judgment that there can be no conflict with full agreement if, for example, the agreement is concluded. contains promise clauses on local negotiation. The judgment declaring the conflict between Swedish construction workers in order to obtain a Swedish agreement for building work for Lithuanian workers is, to the attention of all the co-lookers, the judgment declaring the Swedish construction workers to be illegal. After all, the minister has described very precisely what the problem is. That judgment means that in Denmark a work struggle must not be waged against a foreign company in order to obtain a full agreement if, for example, there is a conflict between the two sides of industry. are promise clauses on local negotiation in that agreement. There are many other things to mention. All local payrolls are sorted out with that verdict. What is the Minister going to do about that problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409155353	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409155355	To put it as it is, I would like to say that I do not actually understand the question. It was a long list of a potential verdict called Lavaldom. So I think the question needs to be repeated.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409155402	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409155404	Ahr, I could expect the Minister to know what he himself has replied to the Folketing and what the Lavaldom is, he has written several pages up and down about. Then I have quoted the Minister's conclusion on the consequences of that judgment, namely that it is that there can be no conflict for a full agreement if, for example, the agreement is signed. contains promise clauses on local negotiation. I would add that there can also be no conflict with the local wage shares which may now have been negotiated in the trade union concerned or at the workplace in question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409155439	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409155445	I think I'm gonna invite sir. Finn Sørensen for a technical review and explain exactly what this answer says. That's where I'm gonna be able to read something. It is true that it says that it follows from the Laval judgment that there can be no conflict with full agreement if, for example, the agreement is concluded. contains the promise clause on local negotiation. But what else does it say? What's that on page two? It says, however, that adequate safeguards can be provided against wage dumping. A Member State can define its minimum wage itself and apply it if it is binding and transparent. Then there's a whole host of other things. However, I think it makes the most sense to discuss the Laval ruling during the discussion that we may have in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409155531	Despite interruptions, we got to grips with that question. But there's one more, and it's from Mr. Knox. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409155537	Thank you. I think, if we are to start with the open line, that I agree with the Minister that this is generally a problem that we can certainly benefit from discussing further in committee, particularly the many judgments that have been handed down. And I'm sure I find many of them more problematic than the Minister does. But just one question to the Minister: does the Minister agree with the proposer and, for that matter, also with us in the Social Democratic Party that it is fundamentally problematic that the principle of free movement, both the one that applies to services and the one that applies to labour, takes precedence over respect for workers' fundamental rights, conditions and wages?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409155621	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409155623	Well, I think I was relatively clear. Because in my reply I said that in my view the right to free movement and the rights of workers are equivalent. So I'm not buying that premise that you as a worker are completely without any opportunity to assert your influence.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409155644	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409155647	It's a long discussion. On the one hand, there have been a large number of judgments, and on the other hand we see virtually every day, whether it is on the subway, or whether it is in Padborg, or whether it is in all kinds of other places, that there is a fundamental undermining of the basic working conditions, rights and wages of many Danish employees. And I agree with the Minister that going in and organizing the Treaties is a task that has a very long prospect. However, having the ambition that we are doing and will work for it should not stop us from thinking it, while at the same time enforcing the legislation that is there and improving the EU legislation that can be improved.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409155729	Thank you. Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409155729-2	No, but I would like to warn strongly against just saying that you have a large catalogue of things that you think changes should be made to the Treaty. Because it will weaken Denmark's EU influence. I think that should be considered, including on the part of the Social Democrats. On the contrary, I believe that there is a need for a more nuanced discussion. Compared to Padborg, for example. The challenge is, of course, that we have had difficulty in enforcing the wage level in relation to the people who have worked into Denmark and what character it has had. This requires better EU cooperation, but it also requires that we take on a more solution-oriented role from the Danish side. FH and DA have now come up with a proposal which I think deserves political attention, because it is potentially a good answer to that problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409155820	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments, and that is why we are now embarking on the rapporteur's round, and that is first Mr President. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409155833	Thank you for that, President. Basically, we in the Social Democratic Party are very, very much in favour of the EU project. We are also very much in favour of freedom of movement and we are very much in favour of the internal market. But we also believe basically, and I think this is beyond doubt, that with all the gains, all the benefits that have come from both free movement and the internal market there have also been a large number of very large and, unfortunately, still unresolved challenges and problems. The fundamental problem when we look at it is that the four freedoms, in particular the principle of freedom of movement for workers and the free movement of services, have tended not only to be in Denmark, but in a large number of European countries to create a race against the bottom in terms of wages, working conditions and rights in some sectors. We believe that the idea of a social protocol is the right way to go, basically inspired by what the Danish People's Party also refers to in the text, namely the proposal from the European trade union movement which basically equates the principle of the four freedoms and, on the other hand, respect for workers' fundamental rights, working conditions and salaries, etc. The Danish People's Party calls it a labour market protocol in today's motion for a resolution. Part of the reflection in the Social Democratic Party on brexit and a large number of other things was a reflection that we had also hoped for was deeper in the Member States, but it has become little more than a sailing trip on the river in Bratislava and a White Paper from Jean-Claude Juncker has been about there having been no such respect in a large number of countries for the fundamental rights and salaries of the shortest and lowest paid people in particular, and that social dumping has challenged it. We believe that when one day comes it will not be tomorrow, nor will it be next year when Treaty changes are again being discussed, there will, in fact, be a strong Danish view to stand on: that we should of course have an alignment of the Treaties so that these principles are equivalent. We basically mean what was also in the motion for a resolution, which was barely one and a half years ago. After all, it was not adopted on a social protocol. At that time, the Danish People's Party had a challenge with what I think, Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth formulated as a standstill clause on social rights. We did not see the challenge, just as we do not see any challenge in the wordings mentioned by the Danish People's Party today. That is why we just want to express our support for this fundamental principle that freedom of movement must also be fair movement. We believe that this is doing the whole EU project and the internal market not only a short-term but also a long-term service, that is to say, to ensure the future of this whole project. We would, of course, like to take this further in the second reading and in discussions on it, and so on, in the light of what the Minister has said today. However, it is very, very important for us that what remains after the examination of this proposal is that we want fundamental equality of treatment between the four freedoms, on the one hand, and fundamental respect for workers' fundamental rights, wages and working conditions, on the other. And there, as the Minister rightly says, we also need to be concerned about what we can do here and now. Because this is something that is intended for one day or another when Treaty changes should be opened up. This is not quite the case, but it should not stop us from having this discussion and from doing different things tomorrow. Tomorrow, for example, contrary to what this government has done, we could increase control in the rest places. We could ensure that there were better funds for the Labour Inspectorate, which has kept daily control, and better cooperation between the police, the Labour Inspectorate and the tax authorities when it comes to being present on the construction sites and for that matter out in the villa gardens, where we know that very many underpaid employees from other EU countries are being used. We could also continue to push for which I will also sign for us to have done widely in the Danish Parliament that the Posting of Workers Directive is constantly being addressed, so that we have a real policy of having the same pay for the same work in the same place. We can press even harder for the road package to become something and so on. However, all this should not stop us from also having an opinion on where it is that we can do something about the Treaties, so that this EU project, which has helped to create a lot of growth, a lot of jobs and a lot of peace for that matter, is also viable in 25 and 50 years' time and for that matter even further in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409160343	Thank you. There are some brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409160348	There are many of the things that Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen has said, as I can only say, are views shared by the Danish People's Party. The first, all that praise for the European Union, we do not share, and Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen also very well. Because we think that there is a bigger problem with the European Union than social democracy does. Having said that, however, the fact is that if this proposal is adopted, there is no reason at all to discuss the Posting of Workers Directive anymore. The Posting of Workers Directive may then exist, but it has no legal effect, because then you have the right to conflict with companies that come here and, as is the case in the metro building, offer 60-65 kroner. in the hour for work, which might have to be paid by more than double if it were to be done by Danish agreement. I just want to make sure that we can count on the Social Democratic Party, when this proposal ends in the Parliamentary Chamber again, to press the green button for it. So if sir... Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen can make it absolutely clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409160454	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409160457	First of all, I would like to say to the Posting of Workers Directive that I just think you should be in this discussion here. And I do not think it matters that neither here in the Folketing nor in Danish politics in general we are also discussing changes, reforms that have a much, much longer aim than what can be done within the next year or for that matter within the next five years. And that is why I think this discussion is important, because it points in the direction of how, from our point of view, the existing EU cooperation will be improved. And that is why I do not think we should stop having a discussion about how the Posting of Workers Directive can be improved. In relation to Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth's second question, I would like to say that our position, which we are putting forward here today, is that we basically support this principle, but that we also take the listening steaks with us and are actively involved in the discussion during the committee procedure. And if there is any agreement to look into it here, but with a simultaneous recognition of what the challenge is, namely that these principles are not equated, then we are also willing to enter into the discussion of the report or anything else about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409160558	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409160601	Now I think that there is a very strong signal in adopting this rather than making a report. I think that a report is what needs to be done if you have a very specific problem to resolve. That was for example. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. But here I am nervous about the prospect of a report, I would say. I think we need a clear position and a clear decision here in the Parliamentary Chamber, which of course also obliges the Social Democratic Party, in the event that the Social Democratic Party eventually takes over the government in 10, 12, 14, 16, 18 years' time.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409160643	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409160645	So, as I said when we discussed the motion for a resolution on the social protocol, there is a lot of discussion about what should be in such a social protocol, and we are all left with each one our tiny interpretation of what it covers and what it does not cover. In this way it is very wide-ranging, and that is where I see that there may well be grounds for further discussion on the basis of a motion for a resolution if we can agree on a report text. But what is crucial to us is that it is quite clear there that the main principle is that the four freedoms should be treated in the same way as fundamental respect for workers' fundamental rights and pay and working conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409160728	Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409160730	Thank you. I cannot believe that the Social Democrats can consider voting in favour of this proposal. So you could have just answered that clearly to Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. For what it says is not about the equivalence of rights; it is about the fact that labour law rules for the country where the work is carried out should apply regardless of where the workers come from. This will mean, for example, that the employees of the Danish company, who offer a job in Germany, will suddenly have to be subjected to the very, very long notice of termination which, for example, is for companies based in Germany. The Social Democrats cannot be in favour of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409160806	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409160807	In fact, I think we had this discussion at the time, in other words in the context of the social protocol. And it also shows, in a way, on the basis of a text that refers to what can be done We have supported the need for this equivalence of these principles. We have done so in our social democratic cooperation organisation in the Nordic countries, we have done so together with our German friends in the SPD, our Swedish social democratic friends who are in government in Sweden, the Austrians and others. We are, in fact, now a rather large coalition working for the day when the opportunity should be offered to change the Treaty, which basically ensures that there is respect for wages, working conditions and fundamental rights. This does not mean that it should not be possible for companies in other countries to take on tasks, but in such a case it means that such a social protocol should also seriously establish the principle that the Posting of Workers Directive has not really ensured, namely that you should have the same pay for the same work in the same place.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409160916	Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409160918	I heard that as the Social Democrats say: No, of course we cannot vote in favour of the resolution. It was a very, very long way to say it, but that's how I heard it. What we are talking about is not, after all, an equality between the four freedoms and then workers' rights. What it says is that if the European Union's four freedoms come into conflict, trade union rights and, above all, conflict law must prevail, that is to say, always. Even the Danish labour law also knows conflicts illegally if they are, for example, contrary to Danish law. Well, it's not unusual for a conflict to be found illegal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409160954	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409160955	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen heard wrong if he concluded that we will certainly not be able to vote in favour of this proposal. We voted in favour of the proposal for a social protocol because we actually mean this by free movement being a fair movement. But of course this must be done in a proper way, and that is also why we welcome the Minister's invitation to take the discussions further during the second reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409161019	Thank you. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409161022	Thank you. It was a good thing that the rapporteur just mentioned that the Social Democracy actually voted in favour of the Enhedslisten's proposal for a social protocol, as did the other opposition. And I fully agree with the rapporteur that there is no substantive difference between the proposal and the proposal put forward by the Danish People's Party here today. It is based on the same principle: if there is a conflict between trade union rights and the rules of free movement, trade union rights must prevail. That is the wording of the section of the European trade union movement on what is also quoted in this motion for a resolution. What I want to know is why the rapporteur says yes to the Minister's proposal to look at a report. We cannot say no to this, because if anyone presents a proposal for a report, we have to look at it. But I would like to be quite clear and ask what the rapporteur's intention is in such a work on a report. Is it possible to say yes to a report only if it expresses the purpose and principle set out in this resolution?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409161128	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409161130	That's right. In other words, we want such a report to result in a broad majority of the parliamentary parties on it. I also heard the Prime Minister speak in his mouth today and say that he also felt that freedom of movement should be fair and fair. Therefore, we really think that it could be relatively easy to agree on some round wordings in that direction if it is that it comes to a matter of Treaty changes at some point. And that it is then linked to the fact that we as a Parliament, as a committee, are being made wiser about what the scope is of a number of judgments, and how they are to be understood and all sorts of other things • I think that quite a lot has now been clarified about what the scope of Lavaldom and Vikingdom in particular has been • we are in fact just welcoming. Basically, however, we believe that the principle of labour and perhaps, in particular, the free movement of services should not take precedence over those rights. We think this is important.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409161230	Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409161232	Thank you. I am glad to hear that, because it is at the heart of the whole matter, and it was when we discussed the Enhedslisten resolution here last time. But then one can well conclude that then the position of the Social Democrats is that if you cannot have a report which clearly expresses the principle on which we now agree, then you will be voting in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409161255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409161257	That's right. We hope that the work of the committee will result in as broad a majority in the Folketing as possible agreeing on this. Because I think that basically will put Denmark best. And in this context, of course, we are also willing to compromise with other parties, and I also believe that it is in the interests of Enhedslisten and in the interest of the Danish People's Party, if, for example, it could be ensured that the current government party is involved in some of these things, although one seems very critical in the matter here today. I think I heard the PM's wording differently, but I may be wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409161335	Thank you. Then we shall have no further brief comments, thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Jan E. Jørgensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409161349	Thank you. For this, approx. One and a half years ago, the Enhedslisten proposed that the government should work to introduce a social protocol to the Treaty of Lisbon. At that time I had two speeches in this Chamber, one red and one green, because I had the feeling that the Social Democrats had again changed their minds, and that is why I had prepared as well as I could now. I also remember at the time that I found it rather strange that one of the most critical parties in the Danish Parliament, namely Enhedslisten, proposed more EU regulation in the form of a social protocol. This was a view that I shared at the time with another of the Danish People's Party's Parliament's EU-critical parties. Well, it wasn't Mr. Beckett. Kenneth Kristensen Berth himself, who was in the hall that day. That was his colleague, sir. Bent Bøgsted. But now I know my good colleague Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth so well that I could actually hear that it was his word that came out of Mr. Bøgsted's mouth. As a matter of fact, I think that Mr. Bent Bøgsted's or his ghostspeaker, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth's argument back then was quite clear. Let me quote: You must be aware that if you first move on to the track that says you have to have a protocol to deal with a specific problem, then you can also risk a number of other stakeholders wanting various protocols to address specific issues that are more important to them, thereby triggering an unfortunate process of EU regulation. See, DF wasn't interested in that at the time. Today, however, we are dealing with a motion for a resolution from the DF, which is precisely about introducing a protocol to deal with a specific problem. For with motion for a resolution B 106 DF wants to introduce a labour market protocol to the Treaty of Lisbon. I have to admit, I didn't just see that coming. I'm gonna have to put my foot behind my ear, and in future I'm not just gonna have a red and a green talk. I also need a blue and an orange and a yellow and a pink, depending on what I may need, depending on where the parties are now in EU policy. However, as I understand it, the proposers want a protection against wage dumping, and the authors of the Danish People's Party also want us to have a significant reduction in the number of migrant workers. I did not ask the Social Democratic Party whether it is an ambition shared that the number of workers from the other EU countries coming to Denmark should be drastically reduced. For that is the basic premise behind the Danish People's Party's proposal. I think we should be very careful about going and talking down the free movement of workers. They did so in Britain, and that led to brexit, and so we risk the same thing happening in Denmark. The number of workers who have come to Denmark from the other countries is clearly positive. We're shoveling money into the box. Danish companies do not have to fly out to other countries, but can maintain production in Denmark because they benefit from European labour, not least Eastern European labour force. It is, moreover, the same thing that companies are now experiencing in Britain that they are worried about whether they can recruit the necessary manpower in future and therefore plan to move their businesses away from Britain. I think it's dangerous. I think it's a dangerous slippery slope you've got yourself on. It risks leading to something that the Danish People's Party may want, but which I do not believe that neither the SF nor the Social Democrats want. Besides, there are other stories connected to this whole area, such as the fact that the foreign workers who come to Denmark are not organized. They are organized to a much the same extent as Danish workers. But that being said, there's a rule break out there. It should be weird that there was no breach of rules in this area when there is a breach of rules in all other areas. I recognize that. But the question is, how do we combat breaking rules? Are we fighting breaches of rules by introducing new rules that can then be broken, or are we fighting breaches of rules by going after those who break the rules that we already have, in other words, better control, higher penalties? That is the kind of thing that needs to be done to get to those workers who, unfortunately, cannot figure out how to behave. The Danish People's Party wants more EU regulation in this area. But that does not change the fact that there must be unanimity among the Member States of the European Union if we are to have a treaty amendment. By the way, I do not even think that the Danish People's Party can find support in its new group, in the new friends who have made themselves in the European Union. In the Left, we are very much in favour of the internal market. It is of great benefit to Denmark, it is of great benefit to companies and it is of great benefit to workers, and we believe it is absolutely vital that freedom of movement should be balanced in terms of workers' rights. That's where we agree. However, I am actually appalled that the DF and the Social Democratic Party may also seem to be on the way to putting the free movement of workers and hence the internal market at risk. I just have to say for the record, if anyone is in doubt: the Left cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409161925	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409161929	Thank you. I think we should just conclude that what the Left wants is free movement, which is not fair movement. For this proposal is, in all its simplicity, about the fact that if anyone wants to be less militant in their language, as the Danish trade union movement has always had and as we were promised at the time of accession to the European Union, the EC, that we could always keep, we must be freed from the abuses committed by the European Court of Justice. It is simply that Danish trade unions must have the same opportunity as they had in the past to ensure that foreign workers in this country, even when posted by an EU registered company, have exactly the same terms and conditions of employment as their Danish colleagues. That is the purpose. That is the whole thrust of the proposal for this social protocol or social protocol. So would the rapporteur not like to say that this is what this is all about? The rapporteur does not want the trade union movement to have that tool.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409162043	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409162045	Sir. Finn Sørensen: One of the things I think very many voters are sick and tired of in politics is when you say: what the Left really means is that there is a gross caricature, a caricature that the Left should not want fair movement. Well, that's just the kind of thing you make up. I mean, it's just such a web of thought up in mr. Finn Sørensen's brain. It doesn't even have dirt. The Left supports conflict law. The European Union has guaranteed the right of conflict with the two judgments referred to. Well, in case Mr. Keating isn't here. Finn Sørensen would read the answers from the minister, he would see that the sentences are misrepresented. In the Viking Line case, the European Union is not at all concerned with the question of whether or not conflict law was legal. You don't relate to that at all. So if one has only read the so-called record of the judgments of the Danish People's Party which has little to do with the judgments, but more is such a thing where they have sat down and thought what might have been in them then one would not be able to make such a rather gross claim.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409162147	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409162150	When the Minister was on the platform, I read a piece from an answer which clearly shows that there has been a restriction on the Danish trade union movement's negotiating and conflict law by virtue of one of the judgments that has been handed down, namely the so-called Lavaldom. It is clear from the Minister's reply that a Danish trade union cannot demand the full agreement of a posted company. Will the rapporteur recognise that there has been an interference in the law of conflict and that the proposal put forward by the Danish People's Party and put forward earlier by the Enhedslisten will ensure that the conflict law returns to the place where it should be?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409162233	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409162234	No, the rapporteur will not accept that. In other words, the Laval judgment relates to the question that if you as a foreign employer are to be able to follow some conditions on another labour market because it wasn't about Denmark, then those conditions should be described, be transparent, you have to be able to find out about them. It is not, in fact, a very unreasonable requirement to make. That's all it was all about. After all, labour law makes numerous decisions every year, where a conflict is known to be illegal. So it's nothing new that you can't just fight if you want to. One can only conflict if it is in accordance with law and law, including, of course, EU law.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409162311	Then it's mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409162314	Well, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, this proposal represents less EU regulation, no more EU regulation. If sir... Jan E. Jørgensen, in his examination of the proposal, had reached line 8, then it says, and I quote: "The European Court of Justice will in future refrain from regulating labour law matters'. That's what this is all about. That is to get the European Court of Justice out of the equation. Back on 1 May 2004, the Ministry of Finance said that 39,000 Eastern workers would be coming to Denmark by 2030. To date, 125,588. That must be quite a change. And the fact is that out of them work somewhere between 10% and 15%. on Danish pay and working conditions. So, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, it would not really be very reasonable if Danish trade unions could conflict with a company that hires its employees for DKK 63. per hour, 11 hours of daily work 6 days a week, without entitlement to a pension and holiday? But they can't. Wouldn't it be fair if they could?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409162426	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409162427	I don't know what kind of case this is, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth refers to. As far as I know, there is no case that has dealt with the question that was raised. And then just such the basic premise: What the Danish People's Party in its motion for a resolution so tastefully refers to as laundering figures is that it predicted how many Eastern workers came to Denmark, and it has been shown not to be true. They went from 39,000 to 125,000. That's not a problem. It's a success. This shows that the Danish economy is going very well, that there is a need for labour. If we have been able to attract so many workers from the other European countries, while at the same time we have record low unemployment in Denmark, then that is a success story that we should welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409162516	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409162518	I therefore think it is not a bad thing that the rapporteur of the Left is standing here and saying that it is a success that the pay and working conditions of Danish employees are being undermined. The money I referred to before was salaries given in connection with the metro construction of Copenhagen, where you got 63 DKK. per hour and worked 11 hours a day etc. I think I will just quote from the speech by the Danish Government in the Laval case. In paragraph 77 of the conclusion, the Danish Government writes: In the light of the above, it is the Government's view that the Community has neither direct nor indirect competence to regulate the right of trade unions to conflict in order to reach agreement with an employer. Is that still the government's opinion? Because if it is, the government has to get into the fight and press the green buttons in connection with this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409162604	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409162606	I didn't hear the last of it at all, as sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth stood and said, "I'll have to look at Parliament's TV afterwards." Kenneth Kristensen Berth did what Mr. Finn Sørensen tried to do that, namely completely distorting what has been said. When did I say that it is a success that the rights of Danish employees are being undermined? I didn't say that. So don't bring anything like that. That's the kind of thing the voters get tired of.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409162636	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409162642	Thank you. The Laval case was a very specific judgment on whether the Swedish trade union movement was allowed to initiate a conflict with a Lithuanian company in order to demand Swedish agreement respected so that their Lithuanian colleagues could obtain a Swedish agreement. This was rejected by the European Court of Justice, thus interfering with the law of conflict. This led in Denmark to the creation of a Laval law that provided opportunities for conflict in the labour market in relation to this EU judgment. That is, of course, the problem we want to address, and that is the problem that this labour market protocol is going to solve, in other words to make it possible to maintain the law of conflict, as the trade union movement was able to do before the European Court of Justice came and interfered. I can hear from the Left that it is not considered to be a restriction of conflict law. Therefore, I would just like to hear from the rapporteur: if you do not think there is a problem, what is it that we should reach agreement on in a report? Because if we do not have a common understanding of what the problem is, then I find it hard to see that we can achieve anything else in the report than that the Left might try to avoid being a minority in a vote in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409162757	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409162801	The conflict is important. The conflict law is an essential part of the entire Danish labour market system, and it has been for 125 years or so. So no question about conflict law and the importance of conflict law at all. And the EU recognises conflict law. But what both the European Union and Danish labour law also say is that it is not just a way of conflicting. There is a need for conflict within a framework. And in the Laval case, the problem was that the Lithuanian employer was not able to find out fairly easily, transparently and simply what the conditions were for him to live up to. That was the challenge. After all, our Prime Minister has also been out to open up the possibility of a statutory minimum wage in industry, which is precisely to ensure greater transparency. We're not in the finish line and we haven't figured out how to screw it up exactly. But the Enhedslisten must agree with me that if you come and have to offer tasks in another country, it must be relatively simple to find out what the conditions are for the workers who come. But, of course, the European Union recognises that work must be carried out under contractual conditions. You should not be outlawed, and we do not want social dumping.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409162921	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409162923	What is then just going on around the Danish roads and jobs is that there is an exploitation of our foreign colleagues. And the EU is interfering. The reality is that we have a Danish model on the Danish labour market, where agreements have been concluded and can conflict in order to require the agreements to be observed by the companies. Sweden has a similar model. There is no such thing in other EU countries except Finland. And it is not that complicated: a Lithuanian company has to adapt to a Swedish agreement when it has work in Sweden. That is just what the European Court of Justice does not recognise, and that is what makes us have a problem. That is why I would like to hear from the Left: if we do not think that we really have a problem, which is the problem that this motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party is trying to solve, what is it that we have to agree on in a report? In other words, the possibility is that the government and the Minister for Employment, through this report, want to buy themselves time to avoid being a minority. That would be a pity, because I would like this to be adopted and then I do not see what we are going to achieve with a report.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409163032	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409163036	Well, it is not true that the EU is violating conflict law. It is almost said as if, when there is a conflict, you take it in the European Court of Justice, and then the European Union says: you cannot do so. It is simply not right, and it is not true, that the European Union does not recognise that when working in another country, it must in general be on the terms that apply in that country, whether it is people who work there permanently or it is posted workers. The Laval case was that it should be transparent, that it should be possible for an employer to find out what rules apply. It was obviously not as transparent as it should be in the view of the European Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409163129	No one else has asked for short remarks, so we thank Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen and move on to mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409163143	Thank you and thank you to the Danish People's Party for making this proposal. We support the proposal, even in the form it has here. Subject to the fact that something can happen during the discussion on the report, I would say that it does indeed suggest that we can finally obtain a majority in the Danish Parliament, which requires a Danish government to work to ensure that we safeguard trade union rights. And that is what this is all about. I think I will start at the end of the debate on the fact that the rapporteur of the Left was up to say that it is not about the EU attacking the law of conflict. It is quite a strange position to take when you think of all the fuss that existed, including in Denmark, after the so-called Lavaldom was handed down in December 2007. It not only shook the trade union movement but also the Danish government, which felt compelled to make a report contribution to the whole trial, which stated that it disagreed: it supported the Swedish trade union movement in its demand that Swedish trade unions should of course be able to conflict, in order for posted workers from Lithuania and other EU countries to be included in a Swedish agreement. That is the crux of the matter. And the verdict was that it cannot be accepted by the EU that posted companies should be faced with a requirement that they should comply fully with a Danish or a Swedish or any other agreement. That is what is at the heart of the matter. I have to say that both the Minister and the Left rapporteur are trying to minimize what was actually in that judgment. For there was more and more to it than that it should be transparent for the foreign company, what it really was for the requirements laid down in the agreement. I guess it can't be that complicated. It was written down on a piece of paper, so you could read it. It is true that the Court of Justice said so, but it is of course problematic. If this is problematic for a Swedish agreement, it is also problematic for Danish agreements. But there was more than that. Indeed, it stated that the list of requirements which must be included in the Posting of Workers Directive for foreign companies is an exhaustive list. It was made very, very clear that demands that went beyond those described in the Posting of Workers should not be made. And what does it say? It is that when we talk about wages and conditions of employment, you can only require the minimum wage and the overtime payment period. All the other elements of a Danish agreement, from local wage negotiations to pensions etc., must not be required. Then it is, of course, that the Court of Justice penalises and allows wage-pressing. Then the Court also allowed itself to judge whether the salary described in the Swedish building worker's agreement was a minimum wage. The Court did not consider that to be the case. That is all one needs to know in order to conclude that the European Court of Justice has made a totally unacceptable interference in the negotiating and conflict law of the Danish trade union movement and the entire European trade union movement. If there was no problem, as the rapporteur of the Left and the Minister almost also says, why did it feel obliged in Denmark to make legislation which imposed on Danish trade unions that, when it came to these foreign companies, they were not allowed to demand the full agreement? Then it should be a scraped minimum wage agreement. It is, of course, in itself a recognition that something was quite wrong. Then there are many who are trying to create a lot of confusion about what this proposal is about, i.e. that it should mean more EU regulation, and what do I know? This will mean less EU regulation in the area we are talking about here, because it will mean accepting countries' rules of play on how they deal with the whole labour market issue of wage formation, and that is what is at the heart of it. When you are opposed to this, it is because you agree with the basic idea of the EU rules on free movement and that they should be allowed to overrule the attempts of the trade union movement and individual Member States to protect themselves from social dumping. That is why such a social protocol is necessary. It is possible that the aim of the Danish People's Party is to limit the approach of foreign workers to the Danish labour market, but there is nothing about this in the proposal on which it is all based, namely the proposal of the European trade union movement.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409163645	And there is a request for a brief comment from Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409163647	So let's ask Enhedslisten, because I think that if you go out on the street, many have the impression that Enhedslisten is such an open and friendly and nice party that says: Come to Denmark no matter where you come from but just not if you come to work. For that is the consequence of the proposal from the Danish People's Party. It is all the underlying premise that you want to limit the number of people coming from abroad to Denmark to work. Is that a purpose that Enhedslisten shares?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409163720	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409163724	It is of course not a purpose shared by Enhedslisten. We have said throughout the many, many years we have been discussing wage dumping in this Parliament that Enhedslisten wants to ensure what it has become modern to call fair movement. This means that when foreigners work in this country, it is done on Danish terms and conditions, and this must be ensured with the tools that the Danish trade union movement has always used.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409163751	There is no desire for further brief comments, so we thank Mr. Finn Sørensen and goes on in the rapporteur's line to Mr. Sørensen. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409163804	Thank you for the floor. The authors of the motion for a resolution state the purpose of the motion for a resolution here, namely that trade union rights should be equated with the four freedoms of the European Union. After all, this is an interesting question we are addressing here, because the national regulation of the labour market and the four freedoms are something that can be at odds with each other. In southern Jutland, where I live, the transport industry fills a great deal, and it is with great regret that in these years the European Union is moving towards deliberalisation, less freedom of movement for road transport. If you are my age, you can remember bus trips to Italy with hugely long queues at border crossings. They passed trucks that held and had to be inspected. The Brenner Pass was a horror example. You couldn't help but notice that. Then the internal market came, and these cows vanished into almost nothing, and now it's all gotten more troublesome again. Germany has rules on minimum wage and no public IT, so all the information must be sent to a fax in Cologne, and this causes a great deal of trouble for Danish companies. And Danish companies cannot really understand it because the collective wage on which all Danish drivers drive is far, far above the German minimum wage. But no relaxation can be brought in there. Austria has been given national rules which are more stringent than in the past. France has it. And where Italy is going, I don't think anyone really knows. I have an acquaintance who is a trucker, and he says that it is just before he has to have a trailer with documentation when you drive down Europe's truck today. That is why, of course, there must be a fair balance between the rights of workers and the four freedoms, and I think that the balance is reasonable today. Because it is possible to organise itself in such a way as to restrict competition by introducing technical barriers to trade by the back door or by making it possible to introduce them. And I am certainly not in favour of technical barriers to trade, and my party is not in favour either. It must be possible to insist that the work can be carried out under regulated conditions, and that can actually be regulated today. So, in my view and in our view, there is already a balance between trade union rights and the four freedoms, what the proposers say there is not. Will it ever be exactly the way the proposers want it? I think it is a bit in the air that there will come some fantastic day when we in Denmark just get things the way we want them. I don't think you should be too disappointed if that day doesn't come. Clearly, when all EU countries have to agree on a treaty, it is very little likely that there will ever be a treaty that one party considers to be perfect. That is also the case with employees' rights. National systems and traditions differ, the degree of organisation varies in different national labour markets. The balance between legislation and contractual regulation is very different in the different countries. That is why I do not think it can be said that the European Court of Justice is imposing a particular model. It makes some distinctions between different considerations, and it does so in a sensible way. That is why a new treaty will also reflect a whole lot of compromises. It will never be as perfect as the proposers want. So we think that the labour market protocol that is being outlined goes too far and that is why we do not support the resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409164213	Mr President, first of all, there is a request for a brief comment to be made to Mr Seligman. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409164219	I think it is very much like the debate we have had in the European Union in general here. Now the Liberal Alliance has just adopted the so-called 'yes' rhetoric: border queues, trouble, trouble, sadness, and finally let the EU run its own course. Yes, I have to say that I am, in fact, somewhat distracted by the new line that the Liberal Alliance has taken in the area of the European Union. It's a total plagiarism compared to the Left. But the Liberal Alliance itself must be messing with that. But the fact is, sir. Henrik Dahl, that ordinary Danish employees suffer from this. It can't be Mr. Kevin. Henrik Dahl's sincere opinion that it is fair to work for 63 DKK. per hour 11 hours per day 6 days per week without entitlement to pay and pension. It can't be Mr. Kevin. Henrik Dahl's view that it is a proper salary to get on the Danish labour market. Would it not be fair enough if Danish employees' organisations had the opportunity to conflict with companies that reward their employees in this way?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409164325	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409164327	I do not know the specific case to which reference is made, and therefore I cannot comment on it. However, I could imagine that it emerged from the way in which the Posting of Workers Directive has been put together. There may be all sorts of border cases, but a new posting directive is, in some way, utopian and, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, I actually think, given how many countries there are members of the European Union, that we are trying to strike a whole lot of sensible balances and balances, regardless of the fact that there may be such examples as are mentioned here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409164412	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409164414	I don't know how sir. Henrik Dahl himself wanted to work for 63 DKK. It's an hour. I'd think it was unfair that I'd think it was being paid. The problem with the way the European Union is constructed today is, of course, that you are moving down to the lowest common denominator, and if you do not do this once and for all, you will just have a situation where the labour markets in Romania and Denmark are coming closer together, where pay and working conditions in both areas are coming closer together. And I can promise you that it is not Romania that comes all the way up to Denmark. No, we're going to meet somewhere in the middle, and I don't think that's attractive to Danish employees at all. So I think that action should be taken and I do not understand why the Liberal Alliance does not want to be involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409164456	We do not use direct indictments in the Assembly Hall. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409164501	If sir... Kenneth Kristensen Berth keeps asking so many questions and constantly exceeding his speaking time, so my hourly wage comes down to DKK 63. I'm gonna have to live with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409164512	I would like to make a brief comment by Mr Seligman. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409164515	Thank you. Should I then understand the rapporteur's speech in that the rapporteur actually agrees with the European Court of Justice that it was a technical barrier to trade that Swedish construction workers demanded that this Lithuanian company be included in a normal Swedish construction contract? That was the point of view of the Court of Justice. It says in this Lavaldom that one of the reasons for condemning the Swedish construction worker's conflict was that if you demanded of a Lithuanian company that they should pay their employees on an equal footing with Swedish construction workers, it would go beyond the desire to go to Sweden and carry out construction work.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409164605	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409164607	I am not a huge expert on the Laval judgment, but as I understand it, one of the grounds of the judgment was that the European Court of Justice found that the Swedish labour market system was simply lacking transparency, that it was completely impossible for, for example. a Lithuanian employer to find out the conditions under which to negotiate when, for example, there is a was not a minimum wage, and then pay negotiations had to be conducted anyway. At least that's how I've seen the verdict.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409164634	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409164636	Well then, I can only urge the rapporteur to take a look at what is the basis for the whole discussion, because these are the judgments which are also described in the comments on this motion for a resolution and which are basically a correct description. There's a mistake about the Vikingdom, but it doesn't matter. That is the whole premise for it. And there are other arguments in the judgment that are frightening if you want to be vigilant about the principle that everyone else pays tribute to at least on festive occasions, namely the freedom of negotiation in the labour market, which is restricted only by decisions of labour law and not by decisions of EU law.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409164719	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409164722	I can say nothing other than that I have understood that the European Court of Justice simply had a different view than that which Mr. Finn Sørensen represents that the Swedish labour market model was not so transparent that it was a form of trade barrier. That system could not be maintained, and then the Swedish labour market had to be made more transparent.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409164748	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409164750	What the European Court of Justice did not like was that Sweden has agreements rather than a statutory minimum wage, and that is exactly the same thing we have in Denmark. The Danish model is based on agreements. So the question here is basic: does the Liberal Alliance believe that it was right that the European Court of Justice overruled the collective agreement system, the Danish model, as a technical barrier to trade? And if you mean it, why do you stand on festive occasions and pay tribute to the Danish model, as I have heard the Liberal Alliance do? For then the European Court of Justice will be allowed to destroy that system, which unfortunately we also see happening around in Danish workplaces where Eastern European colleagues are being grossly exploited.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409164843	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409164844	I just don't think there are so few nuances in the matter. I do not see why it should be an illegitimate view that it is possible to create a system that is so complex that in practice it prevents people from coming in from other countries. This is not an illegitimate view alongside other views, which can also be legitimate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409164908	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409164910	It is clear that one can well take the view that the collective agreement system is incompatible with EU law and must be overruled. That was the conclusion reached by the European Court of Justice, and we have some who disagree with that. We believe that we should be allowed to go into conflict and ensure absolutely fundamental rights and a level playing field for equal work. Then I would just like to hear from the Liberal Alliance rapporteur: the Liberal Alliance is part of the government. What are we going to meet about in a report if you think that is OK, as the European Court of Justice is currently undermining conflict law?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409164953	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409164954	It may well be that we could meet and look at the questions that Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen and I are here to discuss. I simply do not see why it should not be possible for the parties on the Danish labour market, if the will was there, to study the Laval judgment and say: we are maintaining the model, but we are simply adapting ourselves to make it easier for Latvian companies to bid in another time.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409165019	No one else has asked for brief comments. Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl, and we move on to Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409165028	Thank you. When you get a motion for a resolution on the table, you read it, and then you think about why the resolution in question is being tabled. What kind of political debate is it talking about? I have to say that when you read this, you have no doubt, especially when you read all the in-depth remarks. This is a challenge to free movement. It is a challenge of the whole idea of a social protocol that will guarantee individual rights, and it is more a way of saying that we must have fewer people who take advantage of free movement and work in this country than it is about how we create a very good European labour market and protect the rights of the individual worker, the demand for proper pay, etc. Of course, this is not a policy that we support. I think it is a pity that the Danish People's Party does not fully support a social protocol, but it is enough because it is precisely wanted to define it so that it is not about social rights. It is because you want to make rules that allow you to index social benefits, so they have to be less for people from other countries who pay their taxes and work in Denmark, but happen to come from Germany, from the Netherlands or from Italy, and it is not a policy that we support. We cannot therefore support this motion for a resolution, but hope very much that at some point there will be a majority in the Danish Parliament to work actively for a social protocol which is precisely concerned with the fact that this is also about social rights for EU citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409165222	There are requests for short remarks. First, it's sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409165228	Thank you. And thank the rapporteur for this speech. Well, I have to say that I am a big question mark, because there is no difference between what you call it, what you call it, whether you call it a social protocol or whether you call it a labour market protocol, but there is no difference in content. For this proposal deals precisely with what is at the heart and which was also made clear in the debate on the proposal put forward by Enhedslisten, on which I myself was the rapporteur, and which the alternative supported: the essence of this proposal is precisely that if there is a conflict between professional rights and freedom of movement, trade union rights must prevail, and then the EU rules on free movement should not be allowed to run over professional rights. This is a basis on which the Court of Justice must then take a position. It's exactly the same core of this proposal. So I simply do not understand the shift that comes here from the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409165341	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409165343	It's by no means a shift. I am not dealing with the core, I am dealing with the whole proposal. I can also refer to the answer to Question 177, which clearly states that the Minister also considers that this is precisely about not giving social rights to citizens of the Union. I can refer to the comments made in the proposal, which state exactly the same thing. So we are standing right where we stood when we discussed the very good proposal from the Enhedslisten. And I really think it is a pity that we are supporting this, which does not look at the rights of the individual worker, including social rights, when you come to a country and make use of free movement. I see this alone as a proposal to challenge freedom of movement and to begin the political discourse that we also saw in Britain up to brexit, setting up enemy images against people who came from other countries and wanted to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409165433	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409165434	I think that if the rapporteur tried to ask the European trade union movement, they would also see their title, a social protocol, as a challenge to free movement. So I just have to ask the rapporteur: what social rights are described in the social protocol? I can give you an answer so that the rapporteur can deal with the problem: no social rights have been described, nor have any trade union rights been described. That is not at all what the social protocol or the social protocol is about, because it is the rights of the countries that we want to protect. That is what this is all about, and so is the social protocol.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409165517	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409165519	But I am actually just as curious to hear something else, because I understand that Mr. Finn Sørensen does not respond to the comments contained in the motion for a resolution he supports. It is very clearly described by the proposers what it is you want this to be about and not about. And since we had the discussion, in which I myself was the rapporteur on the very good proposals of the Enhedslisten, we were also talking about the rights of the individual who comes and makes use of the freedom of movement. And that's really what I'd like to focus on. Of course, we need to look at how we can challenge it when the Court of Justice judges that our legislation is wrong. We have to look at that and change those rules. But starting to vote in favour of a proposal that would specifically restrict precisely what is about social rights, I would find very sad.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409165602	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, DF.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409165605	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist is quite right in saying that this is about bridling the European Union and reining the European Court of Justice, and that is why this proposal is worded exactly the way it is formulated. That is also why this proposal is not exactly the same as we debated last time. We were clear about that too. We said clearly that we could not bear that there was a risk that a standstill clause might be established in relation to the possibility of EU citizens having the right, for example, never to be able to index a children's cheque, just to take a concrete example. We tried to write this proposal in a way that made sure we didn't end up there. But it is true that the main purpose of this is, of course, conflict law. I also believe that if some muscle was actually restored by the trade union movement so that one could conflict with companies that did not behave properly then the likelihood that more EU citizens would come to Denmark and work would probably not be great. In fact, I do not think it would, because then the trick was to move people from Romania to Denmark all the same, and I would not personally mourn that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409165712	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409165714	That is funny: now I have to answer questions which almost sound as if we are dealing with two different motions for resolutions. Now I know that the questioner is the author of the motion for a resolution, so I should like to say that at the same time I must also say that what the questioner concludes by saying is that there should be fewer people who take advantage of freedom of movement to Denmark, I have no intention of supporting it. What I intend to support is how to ensure that you receive the salary you should receive in the country in which you work when you choose to go to another EU country and work and help to strengthen the part of the European Community that you do in that country. That is what I am concerned about, namely how we ensure it, and not how we kick as many workers as possible from other countries out of our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409165805	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409165807	Yes, but that's logical, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist: If you were actually obliged to pay the same salary for the same work to people who were employed in Denmark, then the scam by bringing people from Romania or Bulgaria or Latvia, or whatever, to Denmark to work would be all the less, because then you could not underpay the people concerned. I think that is quite fair and fair. I don't think so, no doubt about it. This proposal must also help us to avoid the race towards the bottom, which I believe is the expression of a European labour market, in other words that we are approaching Romanian conditions. It may be that they are also approaching Danish, but we end up in a place where Danish employees are affected.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409165845	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409165847	But I just don't understand what it is that you think is the good thing that not so many people come from other EU countries and take up work in Denmark. What do you have against it? I have no objection to a Frenchman, an Italian, a Pole, a Greek and taking a job here and being a part of our society. What I am concerned about is how we strengthen the rights of European workers, including across national borders. It should be focus and not how we can make sure that there is the least possible that wants to work in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409165915	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409165918	Thank you. I very much agree that the focus should be on how to safeguard the rights of European workers. That is why I was so pleased that we were united, the Alternative and the Enhedslist and, fortunately, the entire opposition, in demanding a social protocol. Now we have a proposal, which has the cosmetic difference, that it is called a labour market protocol, but which contains exactly the same thing, namely the safeguarding of professional rights, the safeguarding of conflict law. And then the alternative won't support it. I don't understand. So why not vote in favour of a proposal that guarantees the right of conflict?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409165950	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409165952	Because we are not going to vote in favour of a proposal which, among other things, is: It is a desire that you should not have the social rights that go with working on the Danish labour market, if you come from another country, pay your taxes and live here. That is not what we want to do. It may well be that the title on the front page is the only one that Enhedslisten has noticed, but I have therefore read all the comments of these pages, and I must admit that I find it rather strange that Enhedslisten can support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409170018	Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409170020	I have also read the comments, and it is fine that the Danish People's Party makes some spells about their different opinions on things. But what they are proposing is a labour market protocol which guarantees professional rights, and that is what we take a position on when we sit and press the button. Neither the social protocol on which we agree, nor the cosmetic change they then call a labour market protocol, relate to the right to welfare benefits. This is another discussion and we disagree. Yes, we may agree on a number of points, but that is not what we are discussing today. What is important, of course, is whether you, as an employee in Europe, have the right to conflict and therefore to trade union rights, and I am very surprised that the alternative does not stick to the position of the debate on the social protocol.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409170103	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409170105	That is because it is a different motion for a resolution. And it's not just the front page that we're voting on. All those comments will go into this resolution, and a given government that is forced to work for it here must also sit and read that it is important that it is defined so that it does not deal with social rights for citizens of the Union. That, for example, is part of it, and we just disagree vertically with that. If you work in Denmark and pay tax in Denmark, you are also entitled to social benefits in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409170131	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409170139	Thank you. This is an interesting debate because there is a lot of devil in the detail here. In the Radical Left, I do not think anyone has missed very strong supporters of European cooperation in the European Union. We are also very strongly in favour of the whole foundation on which EU cooperation is based, namely freedom of movement. Slowly and surely, over the many years we have been a member, and also before that, we have agreed the rules of the game for the way we act and act with each other in the European Union. It has been of great benefit to us, as citizens, that we have safe and more orderly conditions when shopping across European borders. For that is what an internal market is all about: it is about regulating it so that it is really free and not anarchy. And the European labour market that has been developed here is a huge achievement. This is an unconditional advantage both for Denmark and for the other EU Member States. Over the years, this has counteracted massive bottleneck problems in Denmark. This has led to a marked improvement in the standard of living in Central and Eastern Europe and in southern Europe. This has made the European Union much more competitive at a global level, and it is only becoming more important and more important. We in the Radical Left are also wholeheartedly involved in the work on the EU's social pillar, which is precisely about creating even better and more equal working conditions, better working conditions and fair competition in the labour market. For the European labour market is not a game of chairs nor is the Danish labour market where one has to push one another away to secure a place to sit. It is perhaps more such a football field where we need to ensure common rules for equal competition on equal terms. We also want, as several rapporteurs have said, to crack down on social dumping. If you work in Denmark, it must be done on proper pay and working conditions, and the same applies in other countries. We believe that Europe should, to a much greater extent, actually be a beacon for the future welfare model. But that is not just my impression; I have been confirmed by the authors of the motion for a resolution: we do not agree on that. The proposers here are concerned about restricting freedom of movement, and we are against that. We are concerned that this proposal, as the Minister has also outlined and illustrated both in response to the European Committee and from here on, will enable individual EU countries to introduce measures specifically for foreign service providers, without the EU institutions having the opportunity to check whether these restrictions are really justified precisely on account of workers, i.e. whether they are proportionate. And it is important for us that we cannot suddenly face arbitrary restrictions and real obstacles when working or establishing ourselves in other parts of the EU's internal market. Because we are opposed to that, too. We are to spend more effort fighting social dumping in Denmark. We are in favour of strengthening the Factory Inspectorate and strongly opposed to the reduction that has been made, but this is a different debate. We would also like to be part of a report that we should have both free and fair competition in the European Union. We would also like to be involved, if possible, in a report containing some of the radical Left's wishes for the future European Union. For example, we want the Commission to have increased powers to sanction Member States that provide unfair tax advantages to large companies. We want the EU's Structural Funds to be used as a sanction against Member States that do not comply with the agreed rules. In other words, we also want a number of workers' rights to be regulated in the EU treaties in the long term. We want European minimum standards for workers' rights. We want pan-European rules for pilots and lorry drivers and others who work transnationally. We want a European children's and education fund to ensure a significant education boost and ensure that Europe's children and young people, indeed all Europeans in this way, get the best start to life. However, we are opposed to combating or restricting free movement. As I said, we do not see the labour market as a game of chairs, and we believe that limiting freedom of movement in the way we read this proposal would be very damaging to Denmark and to the Danish economy and to Danish welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409170657	There are requests for short remarks. The first one's from sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409170701	It is obviously very important for the Radical Left to maintain the supremacy of the European Court of Justice over Danish labour market policy, and thank you for the clear statement by the Radical Left. This is not a view we share, and it can hardly surprise Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, who speaks a lot about the benefits to the Danish economy of this free movement. I have some figures here from the Ministry of Finance. Some figures are from 2014 and 2015, but there you can actually see that if you look at Eastern European employees as a group for yourself, you see that they actually have a tiny net minus contribution to the Danish economy. So I guess it's not such a pink story. Can Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen actually defend that we in Denmark experience that one can be paid at 63 DKK. per hour, work 6 days a week, 11 hours a day? Is that something the Radical Left is in favour of? If not, how will the Radical Left counter it?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409170809	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409170810	Thank you. Foreign labour has contributed 71⁄2% to the Danish economy. of bnp. A good half of it comes from European labour. This is a fundamental part of the financial laws that the Danish People's Party has also helped to adopt over the last few years. It is a fundamental projection that an increased number of foreign workers are required on the Danish labour market in order for the economic forecasts to be kept. I have not seen the Danish People's Party question this about the financial law negotiations. It is a very fundamental part of the Danish economy that it can continue, otherwise we simply cannot fill the posts that companies still need to address. But this must of course be done on proper pay and working conditions. That's what I just sketched out. What do we want to improve? We want a much more socially responsible Europe and we need to fight hard when the rules that we already have are violated. That is why we should devote much more to combating social dumping and promoting proper pay and working conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409170932	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409170934	Well, that's not illegal, Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen. You can pay a Danish subway worker DKK 63. the hour and ask the person concerned to work 11 hours a day etc. etc. You can do that! That is why the question to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen is simple: how do we change it? If this is not what Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen wants, what is it that Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen wants?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409171000	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409171001	I have just outlined this in a large number of proposals. For example, I would like workers' rights to be regulated by law, so that minimum European standards for workers' rights can be established. But we have a labour market that the parties regulate, and that is why we do not have a minimum wage on the Danish labour market. We could discuss that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409171027	Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409171028	Thank you. I think it is a total reversal that has happened to the Radical Left in this debate. For the last time we discussed it, the Radical Left supported the proposals of the Enhedslisten. Because the aim of the social protocol proposed by the European trade union movement, on which it is all based, including this proposal, is to restrict freedom of movement in so far as freedom of movement goes beyond professional rights. After all, the whole purpose of this is to limit the ability of the European Court of Justice to overrule professional rights in individual countries. That's exactly what it's all about. However, the rapporteur has apparently abandoned this view, because the rapporteur is now standing here and saying that they are opposed to restricting freedom of movement. But if we get through the social protocol, it will result in a restriction of freedom of movement in such a way that free movement cannot overrule trade union rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409171132	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409171133	I do not really believe that Enhedslisten is the one who has allowed himself to spin into the Danish People's Party's paragraph. I believe that Enhedslisten will probably agree to restrict freedom of movement, that much less must come to Denmark and that the labour market is actually a chair game. We fundamentally disagree with that premise. What puzzles me is that we have not changed our position. All the others who are allowed to spin into the Danish People's Party's paragraph, which basically undermines the form of EU cooperation. We want to improve social rights. We want to develop the European Union in a way that raises the levels basically everywhere. We want that cooperation to develop. We do not want to limit it to Denmark. We do not believe that the Danish labour market can be separated from the rest of the EU. That's probably where the difference is.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409171238	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409171239	I simply think it is an unacceptable strawman, the rapporteur is trying to make on the Enhedslisten, because the rapporteur knows very well that the image the rapporteur is trying to draw from our policy is not true. The Enhedslisten has the clear view that freedom of movement should not be able to go beyond the trade union rights and that foreign workers working in Denmark should work and Enhedslisten has no intention of closing the border or anything like that, and the rapporteur knows this very well on equal terms with Danish workers. It is just that it prevents EU rules, and that is what this protocol gives us some tools to counteract. That is why the Radical Left voted in favour of our proposal. They agreed with the explanatory statement, but apparently they are not. It's boring.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409171336	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409171336-2	I think it's the questioner who's making a strawman on the Radical Left. I believe that we have a fundamentally different view of how to adapt to the European Union. What we may share and I am sure we share, because that is why we discussed the excellent proposal from the Enhedslisten is that we should raise the level of rights in Europe, and we must also ensure that this is done on proper pay and working conditions in the European Union. But for this proposal we are discussing now, and this is where I simply do not see that Enhedslisten sees it in the same way as we do: the proposal seeks to restrict freedom of movement. We are against this.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409171419	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409171422	If we take a construction site out here in Copenhagen, it's fantastic if people come from Jutland and work, and we also think it's fine if Romanian colleagues come and work. We just think it is crucial that the trade union movement has the opportunity to initiate a conflict if there is exploitation and underpayment of some of the colleagues at the workplace. That is what the trade union movement is being prevented from doing when we see these judgments coming from the European Court of Justice, where it is said that there must be no conflict and equal conditions for equal work, and that is what we must have done something about. For the underpayment and exploitation we see around the labour market in Denmark, but in fact also in Europe, helps to create divisions between people, helps to create hatred and divisions. And if we are to avoid that, we must ensure a level playing field. That is why I am really only surprised that the Radicals can be in favour of a social protocol and against what is, in fact, a social protocol, but which has had the cosmetic change, that it is called a labour market protocol. Why not stick to defending the law of conflict as a fundamental part of Europe's movement?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409171538	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409171540	That's probably where the difference is. Because we do not believe that conflict law has been put out of effect and do not read it that way. And now the rapporteur is moving completely away from the proposal that is on the table. It is not the Enhedslisten's proposal that lies here. That is not what this is all about, that is to say, promoting the possibility of better rights. This is about preventing. That is how we read it, just like a number of other rapporteurs do.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409171614	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409171615	What is at stake here is: do you have a right of conflict? Is it possible to start a blockade, a strike, to demand a level playing field for equal work? If you do not have it, you have a restriction on conflict law, and unfortunately that is the situation we have today on the basis of the Lavaldom of the European Court of Justice, and if we are going to do something about it, we need a legally binding protocol. That is what the European trade union movement is calling for, that is what we have been fighting for and supporting in the Enhedslisten for many years. I am now surprised that the Radicals have such a zigzag course, where, when we discuss one proposal, we want to be involved in defending the law of conflict, and when there is another proposal, we suddenly turn on a plate. That is a pity, because the law of conflict deserves us to stand together to fight to preserve it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409171710	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409171711	But it is because it is that we could together draw up a report saying that we would like to have a number of workers' rights enshrined in the Treaty, that we would like to have common European minimum standards for workers, that we would like to have pan-European rules for pilots, for truck drivers and others who work transnationally, so that we can secure those levels and secure them. We'd like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409171742	No one else has asked for brief comments. We are grateful to the rapporteur and we shall move on to Mr Seligman's report. Karsten Hønge from SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409171754	The pressure of low-wage countries in Eastern Europe and the judgments of the European Court of Justice have put pressure on the labour market, and in the SF we agree that we need to do more to ensure conflict law. We cannot secure the entire conflict law as long as the European Court of Justice interprets the current EU treaties and the current Posting of Workers Directive as they have done in relation to the Laval judgment, the Viking Line judgment and the Rüffert judgment. We need to clarify the interpretation of the EU Treaties themselves by means of a new social protocol or social protocol, such as: The ESF, the European LO, has proposed. At the same time, we need to improve the Posting of Workers Directive on some crucial points. Since the enlargement of the European Union to include the countries of Eastern Europe, the trade unions in Denmark have been working on a permanent basis. Moreover, I am sure that, in the longer term, enlargement of the European Union will be a gain for all of us, both democratically and economically. But here and now we have to say that it also presents us with a number of challenges, especially when moneymen from Eastern Europe and cynical Danish intermediaries see an opportunity for a quick profit by underpaying the employees. Again I would say that foreign companies and employees are welcome in Denmark. But they do not have as much as a single tiny hammering here, if they do not respect Danish agreements and Danish trade unions, comply with health and safety legislation and pay VAT and tax. The competition for jobs must take place on fair and equal terms and not by looking at who can quickly tighten the belt. If we are not awake now, we may well later be accused of having slept per hour while the Danish labour market was put on sale. If we do not manage this area, the consequences for the whole of society in just a little longer term will become completely incalculable. Experience from Germany and England shows the risk of not addressing the challenges in time, because in those countries we can see that wages are under pressure and the trade unions are on their heels. There are, of course, some people who think it is really nice with such a robber capitalism. But the effort in that poker game is therefore the very Danish way of organizing the labour market. This is about defending our welfare societies. For the SF, it has always been important to follow two tracks in the work: on the one hand, a national track to which we are directing legislation, so that here and now, as far as possible, we free the Danish labour market from the consequences of the unfair decisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union, and on the other hand, an EU track where we have a social pillar that will ensure that the European labour market is designed in respect of national systems and traditions. It is absolutely crucial for the SF that we get an agreement at EU level that cannot be amended afterwards by the European Court of Justice. If we do not get such a guarantee, we simply run the risk that the curtain may later be pulled away under the trade unions' right to dispute for an agreement and that the curtain will thus be pulled away under the labour market, as we know it. There is a risk that we will open the door to social dumping, where Danes are competing out of their own jobs. I don't want a Trojan like that to be shut inside. However, I would also like to say that I have heard several times in today's debate that it is as if we do not have a right of conflict that it is simply wrong. Fortunately, in Denmark, we have actually adapted our model to the reality of the European Union, where we have maintained conflict law. So there is no need to talk this down as if you have no right to conflict. Luckily, we do. It's basically preserved. We can see that, as we can see, our active trade unions actually have conflicts every day. That is why we should not think that just by getting a social protocol the problems have been solved. Because there are several factors that must be present at the same time as a social protocol, namely a stable political majority at all levels, from Parliament, to regional councils, to city councils that will always keep their hands on the order, the regulated and organised labour market, and that, at the same time, we have a strong trade union movement capable of being present every day at the country's jobs and of establishing agreements and ensuring that they are respected.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409172224	There doesn't seem to be anyone... yes, there was just one who wanted a short remark. Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409172227	Thank you. It is possible that I did not listen, but what is the rapporteur's position on the proposal? There can be a yes or no answer to it. And a supplementary question: I agree that there is a conflict law on the Danish labour market, but when we talk about posted companies, I just want to know whether the rapporteur agrees that the Court of Justice has limited that conflict law.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409172253	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409172258	We will aim to find a common text on this in committee. I think it would be a bad solution if we were to end up avoiding the fact that we could actually get a majority through a report or through something else. I think that would be more important than voting for or against this. As to whether or not you can conflict for a full agreement, it is associated with many myths. I also see it in the country when I take part in discussions in the run-up to the European Parliament elections. One might put it that it is true that one cannot conflict with a full agreement. However, I would like to say that the arrangement we have today is recommended by the Danish trade union movement, which is probably something more at odds with the need than one is here in the Folketing. We can say that there are some things in the agreements for which there is no conflict. But it is still far less than the difference which actually lies in the Danish agreements, but which is reflected by the geographical diversity of the countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409172356	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409172358	It seems to us that we need to do some writing work, but then it is very nice to know what the rapporteur's starting point is in writing. This is the same question I put to the Socialist rapporteur, who said clearly in the affirmative that if we cannot agree on a report that is satisfactory, then the Social Democrats will support this proposal. Is SF on the same line? With regard to the discussion on conflict law, it almost sounds like we have no problem at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409172430	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409172430-2	Well, I'm in the same position, and it can't surprise you, sir. Finn Sørensen, because we also voted in favour of the Enhedslisten's proposal on the social protocol, and therefore the SF will vote in favour of this if we do not find out anything. I just think it would be a bit of a bad place to end up. I think it would be better if we could concentrate on a report, but if it cannot be otherwise, then we will vote in favour of it here, just as we voted in favour of the Enhedslisten proposal. We have a problem with conflict law. We simply need to put wage-earners in a stronger position vis-à-vis companies, and that is why we must ensure that this applies to Europe through a social pillar. But I don't participate in that myth formation that we don't have a conflict law in Denmark, because we do.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409172505	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. We shall move on to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409172515	Thank you. I'd better get the microphone down a little bit, 'cause I'm not as tall as sir. Karsten Hønge. We can't all be. I would like to start by thanking the parties for the consideration of our proposal for a labour market protocol to the Treaty of Lisbon, and I am pleased that perhaps a majority appears to be in favour of the proposal. I should also like to say that I am a tiny bit of a bit of shit about the prospect of a report. In connection with a motion for a resolution from the Enhedslisten on openness in the Council, we have seen how a report was sought to actually stop, one might almost say, an excellent proposal from the Enhedslisten. I would be extremely sorry if this resolution were to end up suffering the same fate. But we will certainly try to see whether we can use this constructively and not take part in such an effort as was made with regard to that proposal. In dealing with B 18 in the last parliamentary year, which we voted against because the proposal involved the de facto establishment of a standstill clause on the right of EU citizens to social benefits, we promised to put forward a proposal which took account of the inappropriateness that we believe was part of B 18, and this is the present proposal that we have dealt with here today. For the Danish People's Party, it is crucial that a labour protocol to the Treaty of Lisbon is drawn up in a way that makes it clear, on the one hand, that conflict law is restored and, on the other hand, that conflict law prevails over the four freedoms of the EU and, on the other hand, that the protocol does not freeze the rights of EU citizens to have access to Danish social benefits. In 2004, the Ministry of Finance estimated that by 2030 39,000 Eastern workers would arrive in Denmark. Now we are well and well halfway, and there are already 125,588 Eastern Europeans working in Denmark. This then corresponds to an error estimate of about 544%. After all, it is rare to experience such misassessments. Due to the huge misappraisal of how many Eastern Europeans have come to Denmark, the parties back in 2004 also misjudged the impact that Eastern workers would have on the Danish labour market. The accession of Eastern European countries to the EU has led to massive wage dumping, pressure on the labour market and has made it even more difficult for vulnerable Danes who find it difficult to find a foothold in the labour market to compete with EU citizens with more experience and lower wage demands. It is, by its very nature, inappropriate. Adding to this the fact that the trade union movement has been castrated as a result of a series of rulings by the European Court of Justice, the challenges are even greater. They are increasing to such an extent that the Prime Minister last week suggested that the Folketing should consider introducing minimum wage in Denmark. A minimum wage laid down by parliament has always been something that has not been part of the discussion here in the Folketing because it violates the principle that it is the social partners who negotiate on wages and working conditions in our country. It is a state of which I believe there is broad support in the Folketing and which is one of the reasons why the conflicts in the labour market in Denmark have been more modest than in other countries. However, because of the European Union's intervention in social services and in the labour market, it is now a debate that we are obviously about to have with each other. This simply underlines once again the extent to which the EU actually challenges the Danish model. We should not passively tolerate this. We need to ring our labour market model and we need the trade union movement to be prepared to defend that model. The introduction of minimum wage is not a good response to the challenges facing the labour market. The introduction of a minimum wage risks just starting a race towards the bottom of a race that is actually already underway. In other Western European countries we have seen how the creation of a pan-European labour market has led to weak wage developments. We see that, among other things. expressed in France through protests from the Yellow West. The more European labour markets are integrated into each other, the more wage and working conditions will adapt to each other, and this will not be in an upward direction as far as Denmark is concerned. That is why workers' rights must be safeguarded. Today we have seen that, compared with the previous motion for a resolution tabled by the Enhedslisten, B 18, there are a few parties that have fallen away: the Radical Left and the Alternative. Of course, you can be sorry if you want to, but I'm not so sorry if I have to be honest with you. For it seems as if the reasons for the two parties to fall away in reality are very much about social rights, and the fact that you should not challenge foreign Eastern Europeans and other EU citizens' access to welfare benefits. We very much see this proposal as a negotiating mandate to the government. A negotiating mandate which binds the government to the event that you or others raise the question of a labour market protocol, a social protocol to know exactly within which framework you can draw up such a social or labour law protocol. It must not therefore be drafted in such a way as to mean that we cannot provide for subsequent payments and it is important: subsequently to regulate Eastern Europeans and other EU citizens' rights to su, children's cheques, cash benefits, cash benefits, etc. But that is exactly what follows, and that is what was the problem with the initial proposal from ETUC, namely that if it were to be implemented, it could be possible to establish such a standstill clause, and we have immensely bad experience with that in this country. May I just remind you of the Ankara Protocol, which seems to have introduced a standstill clause in relation to the possibility for Turkish workers to have family reunification in Denmark, so that we cannot change the rules beyond what was the case at the beginning of the 1980s. This is inappropriate, and you have to be extremely careful about those standstill clauses. So with this proposal, we believe that we have designed the negotiating mandate, if it is to be said, for the government in a way that is appropriate and sensible and that deals precisely with the issue of social rights. Finally, I would just like to thank again for the consideration of the proposal in this Chamber and I look forward to further work on the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409173242	Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409173244	Thank you. In other words, the proposal put forward here by the Danish People's Party has, as the rapporteur says, just the consequence that the current EU rules on the regulation of welfare services continue unchanged. And from the current EU rules it follows that we have no influence on the extent to which or under what conditions they are to be paid to EU and EEA citizens in this country. That's kind of it. There is no change at all. Then I would just like the rapporteur to confirm that I have understood correctly: that what is the rapporteur's aim is to ensure that Denmark has the opportunity, for example. even to decide that, to the extent that welfare benefits are exported here from Denmark to other EU countries, whether it is Danes or foreigners who take it with us, we must be able to index the amount so that it corresponds to the purchasing power that is in the country to which you have the welfare benefits. Is this the opportunity that the Danish People's Party will provide?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409173352	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409173353	Yeah, it kind of is. It is quite true that the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten says here that this proposal implemented in isolation will not change the right of Eastern Europe or other EU citizens to participate in Danish social benefits. It doesn't change that. But it doesn't freeze it either. Well, it doesn't mean that we can't discuss it afterwards, and that's what was very crucial for us in the Danish People's Party: that we didn't get into a situation where we couldn't discuss it afterwards, for example. the indexing of children's cheques or, in general, the right of EU citizens to social benefits. But it is clear that this is something that needs to be done next door. We just didn't have to be locked up in a situation where we couldn't touch those services, and that's what this proposal is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409173445	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409173446	Thank you for that, what to say, clarification. I have also seen the view of the Danish People's Party in this matter. That we then have very different views on how to regulate the services and who should have access to them, I think is a well-known case perhaps for anyone other than a few parties in here who would like to put us in the same booth. But that also means that the rapporteur, is that correct? For the proposal that is here does not change anything in the legal situation immediately, so EU rules in relation to the regulation of welfare benefits continue, according to this proposal, unabated as they are.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409173526	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409173527	Yeah. I do not fully understand it either, but I must take the view that it must be based on the view that the Radical Left and the Alternative want such a standstill clause, so that the question of the right of Eastern Europe and other EU citizens to Danish welfare benefits should not be changed. They will have to explain this themselves, possibly at second reading, but that must be the reason, because that is the main difference between the proposal before us and the proposal to which the same parties voted in favour. I regard this as a kind of negotiating mandate for the government, and it has just been important for us that it was precisely designed so that we could not run in some direction that we did not want.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409173614	Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409173616	I should just like to ask whether the rapporteur has read the answer to Question No. 166. Because when I read the motion for a resolution from the Danish People's Party, I thought: Uha, it is something worse that they write here, about the Viking Line case and the Laval case. If we take the Viking Line case, the Danish People's Party writes in its comments to its motion for a resolution that the European Court of Justice found that collective action constituted restrictions on freedom of movement and therefore had to be regarded as illegal. But the answer from the minister says: "... The motion for a resolution therefore states that the Court of Justice of the European Union knew the conflict illegally. This is a misleading representation of the outcome of the judgment, as the judgment did not decide whether the action was contrary to EU law. On the other hand, the judgment left it to the national court to decide whether collective action was appropriate to protect workers and, if so, whether they were proportionate. So, why do you write something that's wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409173721	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409173722	It's an assessment. So what we must at least see is that there are no trade unions standing and conflicting in front of the metro construction, because there are some employees who receive 63 kroner. working 11 hours a day, 6 days a week, without entitlement to a pension and holiday. There are no employees' organisations who do that. If we had not had the European Union now, is there any likelihood that such a conflict would have occurred? Yeah, I think so. Then I think the union had been on the barricades and made sure to stop that mess. Because it is a mess, it is unfair and it is and it is just a problem that is getting bigger and bigger and bigger if we do not take action against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409173811	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409173813	No, it's not an assessment whether the verdict determines whether anything is legal or not. It's kind of in the verdict. But let me ask another question: has the wage level since 1973, when Denmark joined the EU, gone up, or has it fallen?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409173830	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409173830-2	Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen is very good. But it's not about what's happened since 1973. This is about what has happened since the Eastern European countries joined the European Union and what effect it has on wage levels, not only in Denmark, but generally in the European Union. And there is just a natural consequence that when you make a common European labour market, wages will go against each other. And that means that in those countries where wages are low, they will increase, and in those countries where wages are high, they will fall, and that is what we are seeing in Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409173903	Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409173905	I am simply in doubt that I heard correctly when Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth said that the trade union movement had no conflict with the metro companies. That's what they have. So is it not true that it is precisely because of the efforts of the trade union movement that it is surely the biggest payback of Danish history or the fines that have come to the metro workers?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409173928	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409173928-2	Yes, but sir. Karsten Hønge probably does not disagree with me that we have a problem with people entering the Danish labour market through the Posting of Workers Directive earning a salary that is not comparable to Danes' salary and that it is then confirmed through the Lavaldom that it is okay. It's sir. I guess Karsten Hønge doesn't disagree with me. Well, if sir... Karsten Hønge disagrees with me on that, I believe that Mr. Karsten Hønge should join Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409174002	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409174003	How much easier life would be if you just answered the questions I asked instead of getting into all sorts of nonsense, that is. I'm kind of asking because I thought I heard Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth said that the trade union movement had not acted, had not blocked, had not caused a conflict. But we do. In other words, it is 3F who has the honour, in fact, of the conflict, that is to say conflict within the framework that the agreement has to make sure that Denmark's history has the greatest penance and payback. I just need confirmation that this is due to 3F and that it can be done, and that is what has happened. I simply think that I heard the rapporteur say that there had been no conflict on the subway that is exactly what has been.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409174041	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409174042	Yes, yes, sir. Karsten Hønge, of course, is right. What I'm just trying to stress to Mr. Karsten Hønge, of course, is that it is undeniable that conflict law is limited as a result of judgments of the European Court of Justice. The purpose of this proposal is simply to give back the muscles that the trade union movement has had. I don't think so, sir. Karsten Hønge and I may disagree.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409174115	Then it's mr. Peter Juel-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409174116	Thank you. It was probably a mistake for me to get involved, because I understand from the rapporteur that he is running away from everything he has said from the platform: first, the 3F and the possibility of conflicting in front of the subway, but also what I think the rapporteur said about nothing having happened to wage developments since eastward enlargement. Can the rapporteur confirm or deny that there have been positive wage developments with workers' eyes, even after eastward enlargement?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409174144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409174144-2	Yes, but it's very, very difficult, sir. Mr Peter Juel-Jensen, to say what the wage developments would have been like in the case of Eastern European countries, for example. had not been admitted to the European Union. It is, of course, counter-productive history writing, and it is very, very difficult to embark on that kind of thing. I can only note and I am not alone in that there is an experience among ordinary Danish employees that they are under pressure, as a result of the fact that mainly Eastern European employees come to Denmark and are willing to work for a lower wage and under worse conditions than those generally applicable to the Danish labour market. Like the Left Party, you can be indifferent to that and say that it is the Danish economy that is important and so on. This view may well be held; it is just not a view shared by the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409174243	Sir. Peter Juel-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409174245	I think it is very important to all of us that we have arranged conditions on the Danish labour market. I am just trying to understand what the rapporteur says. However, every time the rapporteur says something, the rapporteur forgets only half the facts or half the truth, because the rapporteur actually stood and said a very short time ago that there had been no positive wage developments on the Danish labour market since eastward enlargement. Now there's a long explanation. I am just trying to understand what the rapporteur's party means, because you zigzag through this to find a foundation to stand on. And I just don't think the Danish labour market and the Danish workers deserve that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409174318	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409174319	No, sir. Peter Juel-Jensen, I have not said that at all. I have said that Danish wage developments are under pressure, just as wage developments in Germany are under pressure, wage developments in France are under pressure, etc. And then Mr. Peter Juel-Jensen, if Mr. Peter Juel-Jensen has ever dealt with economics. I do not know whether Mr. Peter Juel-Jensen has; I do not know Mr. Peter Juel-Jensen's résumé that it goes without saying that if you create a common European labour market, wage levels will adapt to each other. And since Denmark is one of the countries with the highest wage level, the wage level we have in Denmark will adapt to the wage level that is known from other European countries. It's quite classic economic knowledge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409174359	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409174400	I just need to understand if Mr. Cole... Kenneth Kristensen Berth sees it as such that when you look at the balance between the free movement of workers and the huge victory for employees, as the whole metro case was and as Mr. Karsten Hønge mentioned, is this a declaration of failure on the balance between employees' rights and freedom of movement? Is that a declaration of bankruptcy?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409174434	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409174435	So, I think it is a declaration of failure that we have a situation today in Denmark, where it is not us here in the Danish Parliament who decide under what circumstances you as a foreign employee can come to Denmark and work and what conditions we should offer people. For me, there is a difference between goods and people. People aren't merchandise. I am absolutely and utterly in favour of goods moving freely in Europe, but I am not in favour of, nor will I ever be in favour of, a Romanian coming to Denmark, working for a quite low salary, but qua Danish welfare benefits such as for example. children's checks can maintain a lifestyle that is very high in Romanian comparison because, regardless of how you turn it and turn it, it changes the conditions of the Danish labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409174533	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409174535	So, in mr. So Kenneth Kristensen Berth's optics is it a declaration of bankruptcy that a Romanian being cheated can get his right here in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409174545	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409174545-2	Sorry, what was that, sir? Henrik Dahl said? There was just one word that went out. I just didn't understand. That a Romanian could be cheated how? I don't know if sir. Henrik Dahl may be allowed to repeat his question, because I simply could not hear it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409174603	I think we need to be very flexible today and then ask Mr. Henrik Dahl to repeat the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409174607	The question was whether it was a declaration of bankruptcy in Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth's optics that a Romanian employee who is cheated can get his right here in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409174615	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409174616	So whether a Romanian employee who is being cheated can get his right here in Denmark? I don't know what to say, because in my view it may be that some Romanians aren't cheated by working for $60. per hour in Denmark. Because if you look at it like that, it's definitely a good paycheck for a Romanian. But it is not a proper salary for a Danish employee to have to have 60 DKK. per hour and work 11 hours a day.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409174643	Then it's mr. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409174645	Thank you. After all, we have discussed a great deal about the unfair conditions that have been revealed on the subway construction. A few hundred metres from us there has been a gross underpayment of foreign colleagues, and there is no doubt that the trade union 3F has made a huge effort to run a large number of cases to demand a proper payment to these foreign colleagues, and this really shows the value of a real union. But when I have signed up for a brief comment, it is actually because I was surprised that the rapporteur gave Mr Gundelach the floor. Karsten Hønge is right that there should have been conflicts on the part of the trade union movement in the form of blockades or strikes at the metro. I am not aware of the fact that this has been the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409174730	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409174731	If that is the case, it is because I have expressed myself unclearly, because of course that has not been the case. That, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen says, is absolutely right: there have been dialogues and so on, but the law of conflict has not been applied as such.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409174748	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409174749	This is also the case, as I know it is. It is indeed the reality that the Danish trade union movement is today in a situation where they have been deprived of some tools by the restriction of the conflict law that has taken place. Compared with the past, they have a limited possibility of making blockades and strikes in order to demand full compliance with agreements for foreign colleagues and thus equal conditions for equal work. That is the problem we unfortunately have. So I am glad that we got that clarification in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409174822	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409174823	Yes, of course, but I guess you have to put it that if it wasn't, like, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen described it, there was hardly any reason why we were standing here with a motion for a resolution on safeguarding the law of conflict. For that is what is at the heart of this motion for a resolution. So if there was no problem, why on earth should we have the resolution? So, of course, there's a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409174843	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur for the authors. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the European Committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409174858	The debate is open. Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409174921	With the resolution we are debating today, the Socialist People's Party is proposing two things. Firstly, the daily allowance rate will be increased by 25%. for the first 2 months of unemployment. The increase shall cover persons who have been in employment for at least 4 out of the preceding 5 years. Secondly, there will be a halving of the cash allowance quota for beneficiaries under 25 years of age without training, who will have their daily allowance reduced by half after 26 weeks of unemployment. The Socialist People's Party justifies the proposal by reducing the coverage of benefits, shortening the insurance period and the risk of undermining solidarity in the benefit system. I think it is appropriate to start by stating that we already have a good and secure benefit system. With the agreement on a safer benefit system, a broad majority in the Folketing has improved the benefit system. We have created an unemployment benefit system that provides the unemployed with a financial safety net and a clear incentive to get to work as well. The agreement is based on the overall recommendations of the benefit commission, where the social partners were also represented. The daily allowance commission found that during the last two decades there has been no substantial erosion of the daily allowance and thus the financial security of the benefit system. When we look forward in time, it is true that among other things. the 2012 tax agreement and the annual reduction in the regulation of a wide range of public transfer income would increase the economic gap between employment and transfer income. But in the government we basically think it is sensible that it pays to work. And it makes sense now that it is better to work than to get out of work. That is why it is also agreements which the government wholeheartedly supports and which, moreover, a broad majority in the Danish Parliament supports. I would also like to remind you that the level of compensation depends on how much you earn. That goes without saying. The level of compensation for a person with an income of just under DKK 22,800. is 90%, whereas for a person with a income of just over DKK 51,000. is approximately 40%. The lowest paid who have the least to do with can maintain a benefit close to the previous income. I therefore believe that we have a solid financial safety net under our employees, and when four out of five today are members of an unemployment insurance fund, I believe that this testifies to the fact that our benefit system remains attractive. Danish employees have not turned their backs on the benefit system. In other words, solidarity in the system is still intact. I would also like to mention that in its work, the Commission has looked at the possibilities of providing unemployed people with a strong employment history with a higher rate for a temporary period, i.e. a proposal somewhat similar to that put forward by the SF. The benefit commission pointed out that this would increase the financial coverage of unemployment for the persons covered by the scheme. But it will also have a negative incentive effect. Higher levels of compensation will result in fewer people moving from unemployment to employment, and this will also reduce structural employment. If one chose to implement such a proposal, there would be a need to counteract a decline in structural employment by other measures. This was one of the main reasons why the benefit commission did not propose a temporary higher unemployment benefit rate for unemployed persons with a strong prior employment, and this is also a major reason why the government does not support the SF's proposals. In concrete terms, the proposal will lead to a reduction in employment of some 2,400 full-time people. That is not wise, and it is particularly not wise in the situation we are in at this time. The second part of the resolution is to halve the cash allowance for young people under 25 years of age without training, who get half their rate after 26 weeks of unemployment. The rules on reduction for this specific group of young unemployed people aim to increase the incentive to take training in the ordinary education system rather than stay in the benefit system for several years. I think the SF, with the proposal to reduce the quota for this group of young people, overlooks the fact that it is very bureaucratic and a difficult solution to manage, because in that case the quota must be constantly increased and reduced. In addition, it seems to me that this is an unnecessary proposal in many ways, because already today it is actually a very attractive insurance scheme, even when young people have a reduced daily allowance of DKK 9.433. monthly before tax. An insurance fund membership costs in membership fees to the state just under DKK 4,200. annual. Even including the administrative contribution fixed by the cashier of an average of DKK 1,400. the annual quota does not constitute one month's daily subsistence allowance. In addition, the reduction in the rate does not apply to the entire benefit period but only after 26 weeks of unemployment. So all in all, membership of an insurance fund remains a good business when you are young enough to be unlucky to become available. In conclusion, the government cannot support the proposal here. Firstly, we believe that we already have a safe and sound benefit system which four out of five employees support. Secondly, there must also be funding of approx. 850 million kr. annual. It's not just a grip in your pocket. Thirdly, it will affect employment in a very negative way: the proposal will mean that some 2,400 full-time people will be on unemployment benefit instead of in employment, and it is not a price that the government thinks should be paid. For these reasons, we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409175455	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409175458	I mean, I know there are some voodoo calculations that show that if you extend the benefit period or shorten the earning period, it should mean something for how many people are looking for work rather than going unemployed. To me, it's still incomprehensible. But it will be completely incomprehensible if the Minister thinks that because people who have been fired experience receiving a slightly higher allowance for two months, it should mean that people suddenly do not want to work. How is that bridge built between the two arguments? Because these are things that aren't connected at all. And if that is really the case, what is the Minister's position on the private insurance that is spreading today? Because when they offer insurance, like the cashiers, it should also mean that people are flowing away from the labour market and into the unemployment queue. I mean, the argument doesn't add up at all, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409175548	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409175549	I'm not going to judge that. But the questions are not connected either, and it is probably very clear that then it will be just like when the blind fights. Well, I just disagree with this proposal. And, of course, there are a large number of calculation technical prerequisites that have been put in. It's not really a voodoo calculation. And that is why it must be said that, as Mr. Karsten Hønge and SF graze off here, as well as something that used to be grassed off. The benefit commission has been there and didn't think it made any sense. And I don't think you can accuse the benefit commission of making voodoo calculations if we're out in that argument.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409175627	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409175628	Well, it's okay that the minister just doesn't agree. One should not make such an argument, I think, as if it were out of thin air. You can just say, we don't agree. And then the conversation can sort of stop there. We must not try to back it up with arguments that are just not connected. The second question to the Minister must be: is there not a fairness in saying that the insurance that you draw from being a member of an insurance fund must also be linked to the benefit you receive? So when the allowance is halved, was it not fair that, from the moment the allowance is halved, we also halved the quota so that there was a better link between the two, i.e. payment or the benefit you receive?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409175703	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409175703-2	Well, basically, I think we have a very strong and good benefit system. We had the opportunity to discuss this ourselves before Christmas, when we had the very famous discussion about L 13, namely the residence requirement in relation to obtaining unemployment benefit in Denmark. There we had a big discussion about whether the whole benefit system would crash. Fortunately, it has not done so, and it has not, of course, because our unemployment benefit system is good and safe, and thus also keeps a good safety net under those people who may be in the unhappy situation of becoming unemployed. That is why I do not think there is any reason to change the agreement we have reached.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409175738	Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409175739	Thank you. So the Minister is talking very, very fast today and also very low, so it is perhaps my aging hearing that cannot really keep up, so I just need to hear the Minister if I heard correctly. Does the Minister not think that the value of the allowance has fallen quite dramatically? I do not remember how far the Minister went back, but if we go back to the mid-1990s ■ until today?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409175810	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409175811	I don't think you have to apologize for your hearing. It may also be that I speak too quickly or too imprecisely. I think I will simply send you a written answer, and then you can look at what that development has been like.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409175823	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409175825	Yes, but the minister isn't as old as I am. There's still some way to go. So the Minister should probably be able to have some short-term memory in relation to what the Minister himself said in his rapporteur's speech. That's just what I wanted to solve. In other words, I heard what the Minister said, as if there were no problem with the coverage of unemployment benefits until today. It is true that there will be this in the future, and the Minister confirmed this, but apparently there is no problem, or I have heard it wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409175857	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409175858	I don't think Finn Sørensen hears anything wrong at all, but Finn Sørensen is just a diligent member of parliament, which is why you don't have to stand around and throw anything out without being able to document it afterwards. That is why I believe that I will be able to follow up my reply to the Minister's question, if I may say so, on a follow-up basis. So I'm gonna miss it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409175918	We thank the Minister. There are no more brief comments. We are going to start the rapporteur's round, and first it is Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409175930	Thank you. The intention of this SF proposal, at least as I read it, is to strengthen the Danish flexicurity model. And who would mind strengthening the Danish flexicurity model? I certainly cannot, and neither can we in the Social Democratic Party. So I very much agree that it is worrying that more people may opt out of the benefit system and that fewer people find it interesting to insure themselves in this solidarity system. I certainly am. That is why I also agree that the system must be strengthened and certainly not deteriorate, because it is clear that in 2010 the then bourgeois government simply went too far with the Danish People's Party in terms of weakening this benefit system. It was precisely here that an allowance system was created which made it harder to keep the allowance, and it became harder to reclaim the right to it. In many ways it was not safe enough to keep a good and strong and solidarity system. Fortunately, this was changed in 2015, when the social partners got together and made their proposals for a daily allowance system, where a political settlement was also made between the government, the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party, where we agreed almost to follow the proposal one by one. This meant that fewer people would fall out of this benefit system and that more people would be able to keep the daily allowance and earn more for a new benefit period, and created a more secure and future-proof benefit system compared to that of 2010. It was a good work by the social partners at the time and was something that was then also moved forward in the conciliation. You could also ask yourself if this is good enough and if you could do more. You can always ask yourself that, and so must you. We can always do better and we can always ensure a good or better benefit system, which is why I also believe that we should have time to evaluate the system we created, which was not a very small system, but a very complex system, that is, the benefit system we created together with the social partners. And we may also have to look at whether there are things that need to be changed and re-evaluate it. At the same time, we in the Social Democratic Party also want to set up a permanent labour market council if we come to where the social partners can help to make continuous adjustments to labour market policy, to make proposals for it and to discuss the improvements or solutions to which they want to draw attention. Here it will also be obvious to discuss strengthening the Danish model with them and strengthening our flexicurity model, which I also know they have a lot of good ideas about, and which is always to strengthen and ensure the future, as it is challenged on several edges in these years. Here, as I said before, the social partners are quite an important factor in this work. So we support SF's intentions with the proposal and believe that we should always have intentions to preserve and improve the Danish flexicurity model. However, for the reasons I have told you, we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409180227	A brief comment from Mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409180230	I'd like to hear Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen's position on the development we see in a-banks and trade unions where private insurance goes on. As I see it, it is precisely an expression of the fact that unemployment benefits are too low today. They simply work too badly in relation to the earnings of the members of the cashiers. So is it no more than anything else proof or a call that we need to adapt the daily allowance more to the reality of people with those incomes since they need to take out private insurance? For what is the perspective in the slightly longer term for our cash-box system if we end up with the privatisation of something that should be a common task?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409180314	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409180315	I certainly recognise that there is a huge difference • much more than there was in the past on the salary you have on a job and what you get in the benefit system. I also recognise that many people choose these private insurance schemes. I also recognise that there are also some trade unions looking in that direction and making extra insurance. That is why I think it is right and proper for the trade union movement to take up this debate at some point and propose that these things be changed and that the debate be taken in the press and in all sorts of other places. I recognize that. What I'm just saying is that what was important to us back then, and what was important to the trade union movement back then in 2015, was to create a secure benefit system... there were too many who fell out and too many who couldn't earn the court... and we did that back then. That is why I say that it is not the same as saying that there are no other problems to be solved. I just wanted to say that this was what was important to us, and that is what we have to evaluate at some point.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409180412	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409180412-2	Yes, but I fully acknowledge the attempts of the cashiers and trade unions to keep their members safe as much as they can now. What I am asking for is a position on this privatisation of a Community task which I understand they are doing, but I just think it is a wrong direction for our society and for the community. And I was thinking lately: would it not be natural for the Socialists to strike and say: if you only give half a daily allowance, there must also be only half a quota. Isn't that fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409180445	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409180445-2	Well, you could always be tempted to strike, but now Mr. Karsten Hønge is also well aware of the fact that, firstly, we are in a conciliation, and we must of course stick to that, and, secondly, it is also difficult just to make a single motion for a resolution which costs around 800 million. kr. It usually takes a little more negotiations to do that. What I am trying to do with my speech here is to acknowledge and actually praise SF to address this issue, because it is important. But because of the things I said, we just cannot support it now, because it is also important to stick to what we just secured in 2015, namely a more secure benefit system.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409180525	Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409180528	Thank you. That is exactly the last thing the rapporteur said I would like to ask more about. Does this mean that when the Social Democrats vote against such a proposal here, it is because you feel that you cannot do so because you are in a conciliation circle? Is that what's blocking? Or does the rapporteur think that if the Social Democrats were to support the proposal, they could do so without, if you may say so, running into a breach of conciliation?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409180557	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409180558	This time I thought or was actually sure that Mr. Finn Sørensen could hear what was said up here because when the minister was on, he said he couldn't hear. He couldn't do that this time either. What I said in my speech when Mr. Finn Sørensen then didn't listen, was that what we want to do when we talk about this benefit system is that the benefit commission gets over the social partners' case. Because that's what happened last time you changed the benefit system, and that was really good. What we would like is for us to talk to the social partners if we are to look at things like this and improve the flexicurity model. If we get there, we'll make a labour market council, and there we can discuss these things too. That is what I said, and it is also something of the beauty of the Danish model, so that we also take it with the social partners, which will be quite natural and as we did last time.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409180651	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409180652	Thank you. It is good to talk to the social partners, but as a member of the Folketing it is a good idea that you have a clear idea of what you think is good and bad, even when there are specific proposals. I don't think I got an answer to my question. The rapporteur used the phrase that we wanted to stick to what was agreed in 2015 and that is why we cannot support it. This must mean that it is because you are involved in a conciliation on some changes in the benefit system, which means that you cannot support a not very large but very good and sympathetic proposal for improving the benefit system. That's just what I wanted to clarify.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409180732	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409180733	I think I explained that well before. That is because we also want to talk to the social partners. I'm also going to tell Mr. Kim... Finn Sørensen, that of course we always stick to the agreements we make. But I will also allow myself as a normal, reasonable member of parliament... you can agree with that or not... to say that it's best to talk to those who know these things. I believe that the social partners have, and I think they actually showed this when they made the proposal to the Social Fund Commission, which we then dealt with in the conciliation circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409180804	Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409180806	Thank you, President. I would just like to ask the rapporteur one question. After all, the Social Democratic Party has proclaimed that a benefit commission will be set up to look at benefits. Should the benefit commission also look at the allowance allowance, or what about it? After all, we have many public services which I understand the Social Democratic Party is going to have a service commission look at, so I would just like to ask whether the benefits are also one of the benefits to be looked at or whether the Social Democratic rapporteur thinks it is outside it and that it has nothing to do with the Service Commission, because there has been talk about the social partners. It's just to make sure I got it right.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409180849	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409180850	After all, it would have been wonderful if one had been a minister and been able to say: I will reply to that in writing, because I have some doubts about that in fact. I don't think it is. I believe that the benefit commission should look only at the cash benefits and the other benefits, and there I believe that the benefit is outside it. Unfortunately, however, I cannot ask to be allowed to send a written reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409180911	Thank you, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen. There are no more brief comments. Then we move on to Mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409180922	Thank you. It is always nice, if you have a question, to clarify it. Well, it's possible that sir... Leif Lahn Jensen can send a written reply at some point. It may well be about this Service Commission and which services are to be dealt with there. But that's what it is. I really think that this proposal is quite sympathetic, i.e. that for two months you can get a 25%. If you have been in employment for the last 4 out of the preceding 5 years and if you are under the age of 25, you will receive a 50% benefit rate. I think that is actually fair enough to look at. There may be other things. I have also been asked questions from some people who were in education and who were over 30 years old, and this is about the fact that they could not get free membership of an unemployment fund or trade union that young people can as graduates, where they can just join. Or maybe it was something, sir. Karsten Hønge might want to watch, but that's another talk. However, the proposal as such seems to me to be quite sympathetic, and it might well be something that should be looked at. But when you look at the funding, it alone is something that makes it impossible for us in the Danish People's Party to support the proposal, because we are in the agreement on the reduction of the tax on housing for companies; so, for that reason alone, we cannot support the proposal. Apart from that, I believe that the amount here is so great that it is something that we cannot do with a resolution, and I believe that Mr. Karsten Hønge should instead address it in a financial bill negotiation with a future government. In order to find a billion there, with a motion for a resolution here and now I think may be a little difficult. But we won't deny that we can help look at this, because these rates aren't part of the cash benefits they're kind of outside the settlement. That's why we can help look at it. However, the funding that it is here cannot be a part of, and we believe that this is something that should be addressed in a financial bill debate or, at least, in negotiations with a government to resolve this problem. So by then the Danish People's Party will also be ready to help see if a sensible solution can be found. So we do not reject the proposal in this way, but we cannot vote for it because of the funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409181228	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409181231	Well, thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted. I think it is quite fair and quite right that one disagrees with the funding. Of course it is. It is also a great deal of money to link up with a motion for a resolution, and I fully agree with Mr Beazley. Bent Bøgsted in. It is a wish from the SF to show that we can actually give a financing • but I heard it as a desire to have the funding put together in a different way, because then the Danish People's Party will actually be positive about it. But could Mr. Bent Bøgsted just put a few words on the argument used by the Minister: that because you make a small improvement for two months, should it mean that people are actually wandering from employment into unemployment? Well, what does Mr. Bent Bøgsted on the way to argue, including that if it were really right, what would these private insurances bring? Then they should also carry this march. But Mr. Bent Bøgsted at all the context that the Minister is trying to build up?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409181327	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409181328	The Minister himself will have to answer that question. I cannot answer what the Minister is using as arguments. I don't think that's a big deal at first. It may well be that there are some people who say: I am not in such a hurry to get into employment, I have the prospect of getting a job. But I don't think it's supposed to be alone because of those 25%. extra. I'm having a hard time judging that. And if at last there are any, I think few will use it as an argument. Most people, if they are offered a job and know that this will disappear after 2 months, they will accept it or start applying for it, plus that we should bear in mind that with the effort we make with active employment, where we also give the cashiers the first 3 months, they will be covered by the effort that the cashiers have to make for 3 months, when they are actively looking at how they can help their members in jobs. So the mere fact that the cashiers have to make the extra effort will hopefully make it that there are not many newcomers who are going to go for so long. This will certainly help to reduce the number of unemployed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409181442	Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409181444	Thank you. Unlike Mr. Karsten Hønge, I'm a little surprised that it's the funding it's gonna be hanging on. I think that is one of the very sensible things in this proposal. If we are to improve the conditions for unemployed people, as per per year. In general terms, at least there is not much money, so it makes sense to place that burden on the widest shoulders, in this case by screwing up the inheritance tax for business owners. That's a sensible thing. Is it such a principle in the Danish People's Party that the rich should not, like, contribute to giving them better conditions at the bottom of society?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409181535	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409181536	No, it has nothing to do with it. This has nothing to do with our being part of that settlement agreement. And then I can't stand here on the platform and say that now we're dropping that deal. I simply cannot do that because it is an agreement that the Danish People's Party has helped to conclude. That's basically the most important argument, plus that it's such a big amount. I believe that this should be found in the context of a financial law debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409181601	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409181603	Thank you for your answer. I have a certain understanding of that. If it collides with an agreement you signed, it can be difficult. But then I would like to ask two things: one is whether the rapporteur thinks that it was a good idea to use the money in the way it is proposed here, in other words to finance it by the inheritance tax. And if the rapporteur does not, what other funding would the rapporteur propose?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409181632	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409181633	Now it is not for me to find the funding for this and, as I said, I believe that the funding for such a proposal should be found in the context of a financial bill debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409181647	There was just a last minute request for a brief comment from Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409181648	Well, I owe you a question, because now the rapporteur has asked me one, and then he has to have one back. In other words, the rapporteur is not looking at the funding, but it sounds like the rapporteur and the Danish People's Party are so happy with this proposal, and does that mean that we can expect the rapporteur to go back to the management and say that we should finance and find the money for that in the future? Is that what we hear the rapporteur say?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409181711	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409181712	No, it's not. But now I would also like to be kind to Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen and then we'll see if I get an extra question; now I only asked one question. But I heard Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen said that he thought it was sensible to discuss it with the social partners. We know, of course, that there has been quite a lot of debate about the fact that the coverage of the daily allowance has become lower and lower. And there it might be sensible to have a debate with the social partners that is what I heard Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen also referred to the discussion with the social partners on the contribution of the daily allowance. I think that would be very sensible. But no, I am not going back to the management and saying that we should now drop this in this respect, but I will make a recommendation to Mr. Karsten Hønge; an excellent suggestion that the SF should then perhaps take it up in the context of a financial bill debate, perhaps if it is Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, sitting at the end of the table. You never know if there's going to be a red government, even if it's Mr. Knox. Leif Lahn Jensen, Minister for Employment. Then that is where it needs to be resolved.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409181824	Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted. I should just like to make it clear that, according to the Rules of Procedure of the Danish Parliament, if you have a question, you have to ask a question back. That is not in the Rules of Procedure. The next one is sir. Peter Juel-Jensen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409181845	Thank you for that, President. And a special thank you to the Socialist People's Party for tabling this motion for a resolution. I welcome the rapporteur, Hans Andersen, and say that he would very much have liked to have been here to discuss this proposal, but unfortunately he did not have the opportunity to do so, which is why I have been sent to town with Hans Andersen's speech. The first part of the proposal is to increase the daily allowance rate by 25%. during the first two months for those who have been in employment for 4 out of the last 5 years. I would like to start by emphasising that it is important for the Left that we have a secure benefit system. We have helped to take responsibility for this in the agreement on a safer benefit system, and this has helped us to have a safe and a good benefit system today. Our benefit system holds the strongest hand under the lowest paid with a coverage rate of up to 90%, and at the same time we motivate people to get to work, and of course we must stick to that principle. That is why we in the Left believe that this proposal is the wrong way to go. We know, among other things. from the daily allowance commission that fewer people will get into employment if you increase the daily allowance rate because you simply lose the incentive to look for a job or stay in a job. I do not think that is very clever and certainly not at a time when the country's companies are screaming for labour. The second part of the proposal is to halve the cash allowance quota for young persons under 25 years of age who do not have training and have not been in employment for 2 out of the last 3 years. I must also say here that it is essential for the Left that we do everything we can to ensure that young people are either in employment or in education, and we do not do so by lowering the cash quota. For the two reasons, the Left cannot support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409182036	I would like to make a brief comment on Mr Seligman's report. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409182038	I am fully aware that Mr. Peter Juel-Jensen is here as a deputy, and that is why I should not be tormenting the rapporteur with detailed positions, but only a question, and that is: is it not normal fairness, and so it is, regardless of what you are rapporteur on, that if you cut a benefit half what is paid? Others receive full cash benefits for the same quota, and now, with the same quota, they receive half the daily allowance. From a general point of view of fairness, would it not be reasonable for the quota to be reduced to half, so that there was a fair relationship between the two?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409182111	I should just like to make sure that the negotiations that are going on over there may be slightly dampened so that we can continue with the debate here. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409182119	I am glad that the President points out that it was my fellow rapporteurs, not my tinnitus, who were taking over. Thank you for the question. The rapporteur is quite right in saying that I am not burdened in the same way by knowledge throughout the system as the rest of the rapporteur's group here. Of course, I will answer as best I can. I think, as a normal layman and as an ordinary employee in Denmark, that we should have an unemployment benefit system that will allow us to continue if we lose our jobs. I think that is fair, and I also think it is fair to expect to have a welfare society that we have an opportunity to assure ourselves in such a way that if we lose our jobs, we can keep our noses on our heads and make a day-to-day relationship. I also think I said in my rapporteur's speech here that it is very important for us that we have a payment for our benefit system and also a livelihood from what makes it possible to move forward. But a coverage rate of 90%. I think that those who have the lowest incomes are actually quite reasonable. After all, I have also listened to the other rapporteurs and to the issues that have been raised, and I can see there that the percentage of coverage that has been applied is also being applied. If you look at a recently departed director of Danske Bank, who got on the other side of 10 million. kr. In terms of salary, should he also have the 90 percent coverage rate?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409182237	Thank you for that, there are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. And then it's sir. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409182251	Thank you. The final question from the previous speaker is very easy to answer, because the benefit system is designed so that there is a maximum amount of benefit available. We call it this in daily speech, and it is not close to 9 million. I should just like to inform the rapporteur. On this proposal, I would like to say that it is very good that the SF has put it forward. We need to talk regularly about the coverage of the daily allowance and what can be done to improve the conditions for the insured persons in this country. We discussed it at the latest when Enhedslisten had proposal No. B 18 to improve the coverage of unemployment benefits, and in this connection we were not contradicted when we referred to LO's figures on how drastically the value of unemployment benefits has deteriorated. Because it's with something equal to $30,000. a year, since the mid-1990s. And if we don't reverse that trend, that figure will grow to $45,000. Then I'll save everyone present the many percent bills and things and stuff. But that is if you calculate what is called the gross compensation rate for the daily allowance, which has now fallen to 54 per cent. for a LO-worker, heading downwards. So it's really important. I would also like to thank the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party for confirming that this discussion on the daily allowance rates is not bound to conciliation. In other words, the parties involved in this compensation agreement, without being accused of breaching, can support proposals aimed at improving rates. Thank you for that, and we hope that the Social Democrats will be behind their backs. As I have said, we think this is a sympathetic proposal, and it is, after all, an improvement on the existing rules, so we can support that. I would like to say that we have some reservations about some of the thinking being put forward here. In fact, this proposal envisages discrimination, and otherwise we do not have the kind of discrimination in the benefit system, namely that the same quota risks having less coverage, depending on the length of time available, since the proposal is based on the fact that in the first two months there will be quite a nice increase in coverage. Then it falls to the current level. I think that will give some discussion among the beneficiaries of the benefit as to why such discrimination should be allowed. But that will of course be an improvement for those who are only unemployed for two months, that is to say, and of course also for those who are unemployed for longer, for then they have, after all, had it for the first two months. But there is some contradiction here, on which I would like to hear the rapporteur's comments. That is also the case when we come down to the proposal to halve the cash allowance quota for beneficiaries under 25 years of age. It is suggested here that they should have halved their cash quota on the grounds that they only get half the daily allowance rate. The opposite point of view could also be taken: why benefit recipients under 25 years of age, who pay the same quota as those over 25 years of age, should have a lower rate of benefit. I guess it was better to turn it around that way. So I actually believe that the Enhedslisten will table an amendment to the proposal on this point, and I hope that the rapporteur for the proposers will take a positive view of that. As far as funding is concerned, it can only be praised for it. I think, of course, that it is right and proper and necessary to provide funding for a proposal which is not entirely free of charge. I can stretch to say that. Then, of course, it has to be financed when it is put forward in the Chamber, and that is also what makes me not understand all the difficulties in taking a position on it. Unless, of course, you as the Danish People's Party are bound by a certain agreement that makes that right now you cannot support that funding. Otherwise, however, I do not think there can be any substantive arguments against it, other than a political view that it should not be company heirs who help the unemployed to get better benefit coverage. That is a clear political contradiction, and I must say that I am glad that the SF and the Enhedslisten are on the same page as far as that is concerned.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409182723	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409182726	Thank you for the nice and gracious words. That is the way this proposal is going to be, and I will discuss it later in my own rapporteur's speech that it is not because we want to claim that it is absolutely brilliant, but it is not so simple to link it together. So, what I just want to ask, sir. Finn Sørensen about is this concern that I understand there is that it will put people differently. But that is already happening today. We have graduated rates and we also have the difference between a minimum rate and a maximum rate. Today it is so poor with cash benefits that most people get maximum, but there is a potential for moving within that bucket. That brings me to the point: is that not the reality today, namely that those who have the chance to do so make private insurance? So today, there's this inequality among the members of the a-boxes, because some are members of the federations where you get an insurance offer, and then they're better off than others. So this should also be seen as an attempt to do a little bit about this privatisation of a joint task.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409182817	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409182818	Yes, I think that is a relevant concern and, as I also say, we are not going to table any amendments to the first part of it either, because it is, of course, an improvement that everyone gets. There is just a contradiction between the short-term unemployed and the long-term unemployed, and I think that will give rise to a great deal of discussion. Perhaps my concern at this point is also due to the fact that I know that Mr. Karsten Hønge is aware that we have both been in the professional circles for many years that there is a part of the trade union movement who believes that one could raise the benefit rate in the first time people are unemployed, at the expense of it being reduced when they cross some border. I know that's not what the SF is proposing here. I understand that the benefit rate we have today will apply after the two months, but in the first two months you will get 25%. More. So I know that's not what the SF is proposing, but it's just a concern we have, because it kind of opens up a discussion that I thought had been closed down in the trade union movement.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409182930	Thank you, sir. Finn Sørensen. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Laura Lindahl, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409182939	Thank you. In the Liberal Alliance, we take a great deal of action on what the rapporteur of the Left put forward here on the platform. We also think that the benefit system we have is a basically good benefit system. At any rate, we see no reason why, at a time when there is a shortage of labour, we are raising the daily allowance rate for some people, which would mean that, according to estimates, 2,400 people would leave the labour market. This is not what the labour market needs, and it is probably no surprise that the Liberal Alliance will of course not support initiatives which raise the level of transfer income in Denmark. As far as funding is concerned, it is no surprise that we do not support that part either. But whatever the funding was, the Liberal Alliance wouldn't support this proposal. We think it is sensible to increase the incentive to take a job, even if you are on a daily allowance, and the balance between living and supporting yourself during the period when you are unemployed and still having to pay to take any job is important to us. So the Liberal Alliance does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409183108	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409183111	Could Mrs Laura Lindahl perhaps take us further into this voodoo world, where, in a situation where there is, moreover, a good job and where the job centres can point out job vacancies, it is evident that if some people are caught up in temporary unemployment of 2 months, it should be increased for 2 months, that people suddenly do not work? Where is it that goes up? In other words, what kind of belief can one have that those people behave that way when there are jobs out there and, by the way, when it is only for 2 months, and when the benefits are still not very high, even if you raise them by 25 per cent.? And if you really believe that, how can you actually allow private insurance in the field of unemployment benefits? If you believe in that voodoo world, it should really mean that people moved out of the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409183201	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409183202	After all, if you are in the situation of being terminated at work, you have a 3-month notice period, and then you will know that you have 2 months at a relatively high level of unemployment benefit. This will mean looking forward to a five-month period in which, in economic terms, we have a very reasonable position. There, of course, it will mean something in relation to the job offers that come, how willing you are to take them. If you have 2 months at a higher level lying after your period of notice, you will have better time to turn down the job offers that come in because you have a better economic foundation and therefore you will be more discerning. It's quite natural, and that's how it goes. That is why it will mean that people will be less likely to take a job.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409183259	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409183301	Is that how it works? It doesn't. We are talking here about a benefit coverage rate which already stands at approx. 50% What's that supposed to mean now you get 23,000 kroner? a month? Is it really so great when you come from a full-time job that you don't really want to work anymore? That doesn't make any sense. But perhaps we can reach each other on another point, because often the Liberal Alliance has such a gene of snuff. What is the point of saying to people: you get half the daily allowance, but your allowance remains the same? Wasn't it fair to do something fairness here and say, "Okay, you're getting less in cash; we're halving it so it fits together?"
ParlaMint-DK_20190409183343	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409183344	First, as to whether it really is the system that works, that economic incentives work: yes, that is how the system works. That is exactly what we saw when we shortened the benefit period from four years to two years. That meant people came to work before. And if you shortened the benefit period again, it would probably have the same effect. Economic incentives work. In relation to the principle of fairness: you have created a system where you say there is a payment for it, and then we think it is quite fair. The Liberal Alliance's proposal is, of course, that there should be no graduation rate at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409183422	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments, and we shall move on to Mr Beazley's report. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409183435	In the alternative, we are pleased that the Danes are members of the A-boxes and we believe that an increased coverage for people with long-term ties can well prevent people from joining the A-boxes. We think it is reasonable and logical that the cash allowance for persons under 25 should be halved if their daily allowance rate is halved. And, of course, there is an excellent funding here too, which even works against economic inequality. So the alternative, of course, supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409183501	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And then it's sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409183517	Thank you. The Radical Left hopes that after a forthcoming parliamentary elections we can have a new government because we have a situation in which we think there are a large number of tasks, a large number of matters that are pressing. We hope to be able to make a training boost, and we hope to be able to set the green transition in motion. We will not give priority to 850 million in this situation. kr. For the purpose of the motion for a resolution tabled here by the SF. I find the level of cover for the lower income satisfactory at a salary of DKK 22,000. You get 90 percent a month. of his salary in cash benefits. We find that satisfactory. So, on the whole, we think the proposal is too expensive and has some potential problems in it. And we'd rather prioritise the money somewhere else. That is why the Radical Left cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409183605	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And then it's sir. Anders Johansen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409183613	Thank you. In the motion for a resolution here, the SF proposes to increase the daily allowance rate and reduce the quota for young people, and we in the Conservative People's Party cannot support that. There is already a very good benefit system, which we welcome today. And when it comes to security, it is precisely the cornerstone of the broad and comprehensive agreement on a safer benefit system, which we have concluded on the basis of the recommendations of the benefit commission. In the Conservative People's Party, we welcome the agreement because we believe that a good balance has been found between security and the necessary encouragement to take up a job. After all, we now see that there are, in fact, far fewer people who use up their benefit rights and, at the same time, four out of five are members of an unemployment fund. The most important thing is that we ensure that our companies create jobs. This is the most effective way of helping people when they are in unemployment. And Danish companies create thousands of jobs; currently they lack hands. The last thing the labour market needs at the moment is higher transfer income, which will help reduce labour supply and increase the pressure already on the labour market. That is why the Conservative People's Party cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409183742	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Then we move on to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409183750	With this motion for a resolution, the SF is going to fix a little bit on a ship that leans badly to one side. Better daily allowance must balance and support the labour market. I would not say that this proposal is the only right way to deal with matters. SF has also voted in favour of a proposal from Enhedslisten on a generally higher rate, but it did not find a majority in the Folketing. SF's proposal to increase the daily allowance by 25%. during the first two months of unemployment, taking the worst fear of the bill and becoming a right to those who have been in employment for the last 4 out of 5 years. Young people under the age of 25 receive half the benefit after 26 weeks of unemployment. In the SF we use ours, I think, snuff and a sense of justice and suggest that the quota be halved as well. Slowly, the bearing beam for the labour market is eaten up by rot and fungus, and we must act before it collapses. And I must say that I do not quite understand that the Socialists sold themselves so cheaply in the context of the 2015 reform and now apparently feel so hard tied to the mast of the right-wing ship that one cannot even go in and say that one will help improve a limited area. I believe that we need to build the foundations more firmly, to strike a balance, because that is the prerequisite for flexibility and dynamics in the labour market. The daily allowance has been 20%. less worth in the last 20 years. In 1995, the rate of benefit was 61 per cent. of a skilled worker's salary, while it now covers 49 per cent. of the financial loss of losing one's job. The view is a further erosion of the purchasing power of the daily allowance in the years to come, but there are limits to how many hairs you can rip out of your head on a bald. Why should people continue to pay for insurance when conditions deteriorate? If the coverage of unemployment is poor, the trade union movement will instead defend its members by negotiating long periods of notice home. Furthermore, we run the risk that fewer people will join and that private insurance schemes will grow and the result will be a rigid labour market and greater inequality. After all, we call our system flexicurity, that is flexibility and security in a word, but the word should actually be composed in reverse, so that security came first, because that is how it works. It is security that gives flexibility. And while the outside world looks admiring on Denmark and our dynamic labour market, we ourselves are cutting it out into slices. There's a big difference between the risk of getting fired from the job. We run the risk that it is the strongest, the highest paid and the best established between 30 and 49 years who opt out the cashiers, and this will have dramatic consequences for the whole of society. Halving the benefit period to the current two years adds to other cuts. The right to re-utilize the allowance was doubled, the rates of the graduates were reduced, carnage days were introduced, the right to deduct has been reduced, sick leave has been abolished, there is no holiday allowance for new graduates and there has been a constant decrease in the level of benefit coverage in relation to the wage. There's a lot of holes in the ship. I think we should take good care of one of the biggest Danish success stories, namely our special way of organizing the labour market. We need to repair the holes in the ship and stop drilling more new ones. We need strong professional organisations, cooperative funds, good basic training and a solid daily allowance system, because that is what gives dynamism and flexibility, and that is where we are getting funding for the welfare society.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409184220	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409184223	Thank you to the rapporteur for an excellent speech, with which I can only agree. And I can then regret that certain parties, although they are not bound in conciliation on that point, at least one particular party will not support such an excellent proposal anyway. My question to the rapporteur is to follow up my rapporteur's speech in relation to the allowance for young people under 25 years of age. I just want to hear how the rapporteur will look at it if Enhedslisten makes a proposal or we could possibly do so jointly • that we go the other way to ensure equality, that is to say, that young people pay the same in quota as all sorts of other benefits insured, and then they must also have the same benefit and not be reduced in benefit after 26 weeks.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409184315	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409184317	As I said in my introduction, I am not going to say that this is super brilliant and solves all the problems. What we thought in the SF was to put forward a proposal which is clearly economical, but which, in turn, will mean a great deal in relation to the fear of getting a note, i.e. by taking off for the worst of the first few months. Then we just thought that we would introduce such a common sense of snuff, a fairness, by saying that if you halve the daily allowance rate, you also have to halve the quota. But, by the way, I agree with Mr. Finn Sørensen in that the right way to go was to pull it up to the full daily allowance rate. Our assessment was that there would not be the slightest chance of getting through, whereas I thought that I could talk into a bourgeois sense of humor, a bourgeois sense of fairness: that if we now wanted to have half the daily allowance rate, what I think is bad, they could perhaps also be persuaded to such a fairness, so that the benefit you get should be linked to the price you pay. So it was just a tactical attempt to see if we couldn't help a little. But if you don't, I'm gonna give it to Mr. Knox. Finn Sørensen is right that the right way to go is like Mr. Sørensen. Finn Sørensen suggests.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409184414	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409184416	Well, I'm so glad. Then all we have to do is cry together that the one who appeals to bourgeois cleverness is obviously in vain. It is not, of course, a very positive response that has come from that side of the House in this respect. And that may well lead us to conclude that the bourgeois snuff no longer exists when we talk about this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409184443	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409184445	Neither snuff nor fairness is there to be found in that side of the Chamber, and it is good that there will soon be elections so that we can change the taboos.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409184452	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Employment Committee. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409184515	The debate is open. Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409184522	With the resolution we are debating today, the Enhedslisten will provide everyone in the cash aid system with a twelve-month clarification guarantee. According to the proposal, the declaration guarantee means that within 12 months, and in exceptional cases not more than 24 months, municipalities must have established whether citizens should be visited for ordinary employment, training, rehabilitation, resource development, flexible jobs or early retirement. As I see it, the proposal is basically about how we prevent the recipients of cash benefits from being stuck in the system and that they will also be helped as quickly as possible. This is a sympathetic agenda which I myself and the government are deeply concerned with, and which we have also used countless meetings and consultations to discuss. In many ways, I fully agree with Enhedslisten that this is a major failure to the many people who have been parked on cash benefits year after year. Of course, we also owe it to them to make an effort there. But I would also like to start by saying that I do not believe that this so-called clarification guarantee is the solution. We run the risk that it will be another procedural requirement that locks the efforts of the municipalities for the citizens, and we are basically in danger of throwing good money at something that is not going to make a real difference. I would like to start by explaining what is at all in the fact that the municipalities have to clarify the citizens, because I think that is important for us to get this right. First of all, I would like to remind you that when we talk about long-term cash aid recipients, we are talking about a group of citizens who typically have problems other than unemployment. Some citizens have very complex problems, and it is also not the case that the situation of the citizen is static. It can change, and it can change over time. When a citizen comes to the municipality for the first time and applies for cash benefits, a decision is quickly made as to whether the citizen is entitled to support. It is, of course, absolutely crucial that the municipality takes a position quickly, so that the citizen has a dependency base. In the case of citizens who have problems other than unemployment, it is also up to the municipality to decide what efforts should be made. This is done on the basis of an individual assessment of the citizens' specific challenges. There is also a requirement for municipalities to carry out continuous follow-up in the cases precisely to ensure that citizens are not just left to themselves. For citizens with a permanent and significant reduction in their ability to work, the municipality must always assess whether citizens are in the target group for resource progression, flex jobs or early retirement. The municipality will have to carry out a comprehensive social assessment in which it will have to take into account all the opportunities available to provide assistance. It is the municipality's task to ensure that a case is sufficiently clarified and documented before a decision on e.g. a sequence of resources, flexible jobs or early retirement. It will therefore be individual when the municipality has sufficient documentation to make this decision. Unfortunately, when it comes to very complex cases, it may take time to make a social and holistic assessment and thus have the full documentation to make this decision. That is why the good question is this: what will a clarification guarantee actually be able to change? For what should the municipality do when it has to decide after 12 months or after 24 months if information is still lacking in the citizen's case? For example, the municipality is missing. health information in order to assess whether the citizen should be provided with resources, then the municipality cannot make a decision. The municipality cannot take a decision on the basis of the available documentation if there is a lack of information in the case. Therefore, there will be a real risk that, in all cases, a decision will not be taken, even if a clarification guarantee is introduced, for example. 12 months. In these cases, a clarification guarantee would simply lead to an empty decision, which means that the citizen must continue to receive cash benefits. In this context, the introduction of a procedural requirement may in fact lead to a longer procedure, with a further decision to be taken at a time when the case is not clear, while at the same time citizens have a right of appeal. Another reason why I am not in favour of a clarification guarantee is that it is another new procedural requirement. After all, it is not so many days since we last stood here and discussed the LAB law, namely the new Act on active employment efforts, which must, of course, help to simplify the procedural requirements and give the municipalities greater freedom. I am still very much in favour of this, although it was a few days ago that we had the first reading. Therefore, my basic view is that new rigid procedural requirements for the work of municipalities with citizens are not necessarily what needs to be done. I believe that what is needed is for us to hold municipalities more responsible for what is happening. If there are municipalities that fail to meet their responsibilities, they can be placed under administration in the extreme. That is why I have also made it clear that I will not accept that citizens are left to themselves. That is precisely where we have to take advantage of the agreement we have concluded with each other, and then the hammer, if you will say so, has to fall. It's time to follow up. It is precisely the new thing in the LAB agreement that we have made that there is no free ticket to the municipalities to leave the citizens behind, and in the event that this happens, there must be political attention to it. I also think we should welcome the fact that we have launched a number of different initiatives on the basis of the Danish People's Party's wishes. After all, it is the projects that more people have to do with 1 and more people have to do with 2 and that are essentially based on making an extraordinary effort for people in the cash benefits system. "More people are going to have to make a special effort for those who have been in the cash benefits system for more than 5 years, and we have to say that by the end of 2018 we are beginning to see some really good results. The cases have been examined in the vast majority of the municipalities that have been involved, and we can also see that by the end of December 2018, approx. 70% of those who do not belong in the cash benefits system, transferred to other benefits. This applies mainly to unemployment benefit, resource progression and early retirement. I think that's a good number. Of course, it's not 100%, but it's 70%. and, unfortunately, we are also witnessing a political difficulty: there are people who have been parked on cash aid this year and some even for several years, without that being what they should have been parked on. They should have been helped, they should have been on another service. We need to do something about that. That's also why we've had the initiative... more people are going with 1 and now the initiative... more people are going with 2... where 167 million have been set aside. kr. to disseminate good experience, precisely so that more vulnerable citizens in the cash assistance system can get an effort. And it is they who have been there between 1 and 5 years who are involved in more than 2 years. The intention is to ensure that they can get started quickly and ensure the right help and effort so that the individual citizen can move on with his life. This also requires a special degree of political attention, because it is of course also important to make it clear that this is the responsibility of the municipalities. We have then chosen, in exceptional circumstances, to allocate funds to examine the cases, and we have seen there that there has been an enormous local interest in participating in these projects. But we have also given each other a hand in evaluating and following the efforts along the way, and this is not least on the basis of the way we have made the initiatives •More people are going to have to with 1 and more people with 2 • that we can now follow how developments are month by month, person by person. So in many ways we have now made a new break in employment policy, because we can more closely follow the money that is being put down. So it will be a thank you for the debate, but as they say in 3F when discussing with them: thank you, but no thank you. This will not be something that the government can support, but thank you for highlighting this important debate and, above all, for giving us the opportunity to discuss and maintain the focus on making an extraordinary effort for the people in our cash assistance system who are not good enough to help.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409185343	Thank you, Minister. There is a brief question from Mr. Finn Sørensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409185346	Thank you. I would like to thank the Minister for having understood the purpose of the motion for a resolution. It has been correctly reproduced, and I am glad of that. So we are not going to discuss straws in relation to this proposal, at least not in relation to the Minister. I just don't really understand the Minister's rejection of this proposal. Then the Minister refers to another bill we are dealing with, but there is nothing in it that prevents the municipalities from using the law as it actually is today. After all, it is the legislation that allows municipalities to park people on cash aid for years, and in the draft law to which the Minister refers nothing is going to make up for that problem. Then the Minister refers to the project •More must be included. We ourselves refer to this in our comments on the proposal. It is a worthwhile project which shows precisely that within a rather short period of one year or two years, a little more perhaps, you can actually go through the cases of several thousand cash benefits recipients and decide what to do with them, how to help them further. What we are proposing here is simply a formalisation of that project, if I may say so. So I really don't understand the Minister's opposition.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409185500	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409185501	It is never good if Finn Sørensen does not understand what I am saying as Minister for Employment. Then we have a serious situation that occurs almost weekly. So, what I was trying to say about the LAB proposal was that in this proposal we have also developed this special mechanism which now allows us to create a model in which, with the support of the conciliation circle, the Minister of Employment can put a municipality under administration and make special procedural requirements, special rules for a single municipality. It's a new break. It hasn't been possible before. This is what helps to ensure that if there are municipalities that fail their citizens, a special handheld effort can be made towards selected municipalities. I am glad that Finn Sørensen has been inspired by so much of the efforts made by more people, both 1 and 2, that it has meant that a motion for a resolution has been tabled. I simply do not think that this motion for a resolution is in any way a representation of more people. There I have to say that I think it is far too loose in the joints, in relation to how the effort is in more people's hands.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409185606	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409185608	Thank you. In relation to the bill the Minister refers to a bill, i.e. this about the LAB Act and we hope that all those who are watching can figure out what it is; they will probably have difficulty with that, I just have to say that none of the parameters I have seen are described. Moreover, the parameters needed to put municipalities under administration are not described very much; that comes only after. I haven't seen that. It is possible that it will be involved, and then we will have come some way along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409185645	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409185645-2	But that is true, and we must say again to Finn Sørensen, the diligent man, that it is true that it has not yet been fully unfolded. It will be by means of an announcement, through an authorisation, which we will be discussing in the autumn. But the truth is that in the political agreement which I know Finn Sørensen has read and which was made on 23 August, we have a larger section on how to strengthen the control mechanism to ensure that the individual is not let down in the system. I also have to say that it is high time that we put in place a more loving hand for those people who are not getting the right effort from their municipality today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409185721	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409185731	I would like to start by thanking Enhedslisten for taking this debate because I fully agree with Enhedslisten that it is appalling that so many, as the proposal also describes, go on cash assistance for very many years. It really cannot be true. Many people should not, as one can see, be on that service at all, but should be in a completely different place, and many do not get the effort they should make to either move on in jobs or in education, as Enhedslisten writes, or just be clarified. It is, as I see it, a huge failure of these people, and it is certainly not good enough. That is why I believe that most people who have followed these debates know that I have spoken to the municipalities here from the platform and in many other places, because I believe that they have actually not done well enough in the field of employment and that many of them are still not doing well enough. You can see in the project that more people have to join, which was also discussed with the minister, that there is actually a lot to come for; that a lot of people are on a service they shouldn't be on at all, and therefore don't get the right effort to move on. That is not good enough, and we must do much better. In fact, the municipalities today have the duty to do so. They have the duty to make the right effort and to clarify the situation and needs of the individual. Therefore, we must and must expect more from the municipalities: Simply expect them to take this very seriously and expect them to ensure that this gets better. And that can be done. We can see this in the project... More people are going with it. But we can also see it in several municipalities that are now starting to invest in these people, for example. in Hjørring that it is possible to do these things. There are simply a number of social workers who have been employed to spend extra time and resources on the recipients of cash benefits in order to get them on the job or whatever they need to do. The result is pretty good when you invest in people like that. Too often more people come to work, as you see here too. Several families have a good life, and the municipality can also put money in the box in the long term, so they can use for other things, such as better welfare. Fortunately, there are also a number of people who have begun to follow it. Several other municipalities follow the same path as Hjørring, and that is only good. We must then spread this to even more municipalities through dialogue with them, and we must demand and demand more of these municipalities, as we have, among other things. I would not call it the LAB law that was discussed before, but the simplification agreement in which we tried to make some simplification in the area of employment. In it there was also the fact that we expect the municipalities to deliver good results, and if not, it must have some consequences for the municipalities. It was also quite important for us Social Democrats in these debates. We would like to see more freedom for the municipalities, which we are certainly in favour of, but with that there is also responsibility. Therefore, there must also be consequences if you do not do the job well enough. With these words, we fully agree that there are huge problems to be solved, but we believe that this should be resolved in a different way where more municipalities are on the right path. That is why we are voting against the proposal, but we certainly believe that we should keep a huge focus on clarification, so keep the focus on whether those conversations are being conducted, keep the focus on whether the effort is being made and whether the results that the municipalities are showing are also pointing the right way, as they have to do. It is the duty of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409190056	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409190059	Thank you. I actually think I would just ask the rapporteur to explain paragraph 1, how the rapporteur will ensure that we do not see in the future that cash benefits recipients are allowed to be in the system for years and, paragraph 2, how the rapporteur will ensure that they approx. Thirty thousand people who have been in the cash assistance system for more than five years now very quickly receive clarification and a decision and some help in moving forward in their lives.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409190143	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409190147	I think I can give the same answer to both questions. For what is also important, and which was also discussed, Mr. Finn Sørensen has also discussed this with the minister before the meeting is precisely the point that we have told the municipalities that we will now measure them by the results they achieve. And if it turns out they don't get people going and they don't produce any good results, we'll come after them. Then there are just some consequences. It's called freedom under responsibility, and I think that's super important. I have no doubt that when some mayors suddenly discover that they are being called to a minister's interview, that letters are beginning to come from a minister, and that they may also start to be put under administration because they cannot figure out how to achieve any good results, and they are about to defend it in the local use, then they will start to correct it. That's why I believe this has an effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409190242	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409190244	So I just have to ask the rapporteur: does this mean that in the factors on which the municipalities are to be measured, there will be a clear demand that there should be a limit to how long benefit recipients will be in the system? That is what this whole bill is all about, and that is the problem we are trying to address. As the legislation is today, it is legal for municipalities to park people in the cash aid system for years and, as far as I can see, it will also be with the bill to which the rapporteur refers. So I would like to ask whether the thing about coming after the municipalities will then also be conditional on the municipalities having clear deadlines for determining when they will have to clarify the beneficiaries of cash benefits and help them further in their lives.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409190331	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409190333	I think the Minister also replied to that. There's gonna be an announcement sometime, and we're gonna discuss it. It will be the case that we are going to measure the municipalities on the results they achieve, on whether they get people on the system, on whether they get people into work, on whether they are really doing something in the areas of action, whether they are actually holding some conversations, whether they are doing anything at all. For it is the case right now that virtually no local authority is complying with the law. And we can't put up with that, and that's exactly why we just made this deal, and that's why we're gonna have to come after them. The Minister said it should be with a hammer, but I would probably use the word sledgehammer, because it must be one of the big hammers if they do not behave properly, and I do not think they have done so. We just have to make sure these people get to work or where they're going.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409190413	Thank you, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen. Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti, who has the floor now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409190421	Thank you for that, President. This proposal is about giving everyone in the cash assistance system a maximum clarification guarantee. 12 months, in special cases not more than 24 months, and when it says "in special cases," I interpret it as saying that it is if someone is ill or has some special problems." Finn Sørensen nods, so it is right to interpret it in this context and then it needs to be clarified within the time limit mentioned whether the citizen should be searched for employment, training, rehabilitation, resource development, flexible jobs or early retirement. But we are in agreement that there must be rapid clarification. I can then have a little difficulty in judging immediately whether this can actually be done within the 12 months, but if I have understood correctly, you have to start from day one, you get on with cash aid, i.e. if it is within the first 12 months. But in the Danish People's Party we have been making an effort in connection with this. The Danish People's Party has got it through that more people were going with it. There were almost 30,000 whose cases were reversed and they had gone for over 5 years, and very many of them turned out to have gone sick for a long time. I remember that STAR, the Agency for Labour Market and Recruitment, said it wasn't very many. They didn't really have numbers on it. But then it turned out, since they began to make it up, that it was almost 30,000 who were in the group that had gone for over 5 years and, as the Minister said, 70 per cent. of them were clarified. We must, of course, also bring the last of them to clarification if they are not fully involved. But there are some municipalities that have chosen to stand outside there. Then we in the Danish People's Party also made it so that more people were to join after 1 year. Then we go down and look at the group that has been there between 1 and 5 years, it will turn out that there are just as many people who need clarification when they get started. We also look forward, of course, when it is properly set in motion, to getting some figures from the municipalities that are involved here from the start, for how many it really is. I think the figure will be surprising when we see how many people are actually sick and have not moved on. And that is where I fully agree with Mr. Finn Sørensen in that it's unheard of that they just have to be placed somewhere. Then, of course, there is also someone in the cash assistance system who just needs help finding a job. There are those who are not able to find a job themselves, someone who is not so good at selling themselves to an employer. Someone needs a little more extra motivation for why you need a job. It is there, yes, it was actually in the law on the cash aid ceiling that we in the Danish People's Party got it through that those who could not find a job themselves should have help to find a job. In the agreement on a simplified employment effort, we got through the fact that the job centres had to match the unemployed to the unemployed, and so they are not just benefit recipients, they are also cash benefits recipients. This means that when it comes into force, job consultants have to grab each jobable cash aid recipient and say: we have a job here. What's it gonna take? Is it a small qualification, or do you just need help getting in touch with an employer to get into a job? That is also one of the things we expect a great deal of. And in this context, it is also important that we keep an eye on the fact that the municipalities are also making that effort to the citizens, because we cannot accept that when we make legislation they look very much at the work that needs to be done. A great many efforts have been made, plus the fact that we have the young effort that has been agreed, where the young team in the municipalities will have to take hold of the young people and get them on to an education. Nor should they go into that system for longer than is necessary. So a lot of moves have been made, but sir... Finn Sørensen is right about the fact that some people are still going away, and it is unbelievable that some people are going for over 10 years and are still going on cash benefits and maybe not sick either. But there may well be some who are sick, but I hope that when we have made it that more people are going, we have had them. I have not just seen whether an inventory has been made of those they have clarified, but we can check how long the various have gone into the system: those who have clarified and moved on and those who have received early retirement. Because I definitely think that someone has been going for over 10 years. As far as I am concerned, we have taken many steps, but I do not wish to deny that further steps have to be taken to clean up the large group here. However, as I have said, the Danish People's Party cannot support the motion for a resolution, among other things. because we have also made many measures that should help, and we must, of course, keep an eye on whether the measures are being used as they should. However, we will not rule out further action to clean up the pile.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409190951	Thank you. Sir. Finn Sørensen with a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409190955	Thank you. In other words, the reason I hear that the motion for a resolution cannot be supported is that a great deal of action has been taken. Yes, I hope they seem to some extent, but we can see from the figures I have received from the Minister that things are going the wrong way. The proportion of people who have been in the cash assistance system for a very long time is increasing and the number of people who have been in the system for 7-10 years is also increasing. So in spite of all these strenuous efforts and despite the fact that we have had a boom with increased employment opportunities, we can see that it actually goes the wrong way when we talk about and look at the group that has been a long time in the cash aid system. So if the rapporteur cannot support this proposal, can we get some concrete proposals on how to ensure that this does not happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409191042	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409191044	If you look at what is done and take those who are sick, those who cannot get into the labour market, we see that we have made an effort that works. A great many have been clarified, either for early retirement, flexible jobs, training or the labour market. But if you disregard the sick, those who are not supposed to be in the system of sick people should not be in the cash benefits system, and I think we agree that if you are ill, you should not be in the cash benefits system and only look at those who are job-ready cash benefits recipients, so yes: You should like clarification when they sign up for the cash benefits system and tell you that they are unemployed and need cash benefits. When they're ready for work, they need help getting a job, and then they're settled. They shouldn't be clarified about whether they should have pre-time flexible jobs or something like that, they just need help getting a job, and that's what they want, that's what they want, and they ask if they can't just get help getting a job. This is what we have built into it in matching the unemployed to available jobs, but also in the cash benefits ceiling system, where it is written in that the municipalities must help find jobs for those who cannot find a job themselves. That is where we need to make an effort. Those who are ready for work can be resolved quickly, and they should be able to do so within a week, because it's just a job they need to have.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409191208	Thank you. Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409191211	Thank you. That is absolutely right, and apart from the ceiling on cash benefits, we agree that those who do not have all kinds of other problems must have an offer for an ordinary job. We can only note that it is not working. For "in round figures" a quarter of the group that has been a long time in the cash benefits system is job preparation, but no one has found a job for them. You cut down on their benefits and their finances, but they didn't get jobs. If we now introduced a clear commitment on the part of the municipalities and introduced into the law that within one year, in exceptional cases two years, they should have clarified them, does the rapporteur not think that there would be any more impetus in the matter? Because that would, of course, give the citizen the right to have a decision on that issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409191303	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409191304	It is, after all, a question of what lies in the clarification guarantee. Because if you're ready for a job and you don't have a problem and you get into the job center in the municipality and you say you have nothing to support yourself for, what do you need to be clarified for if you're healthy and emotional and you just need a job? Then you need help finding a job, because then you're settled. If they then cannot find a job for one and they do not make enough of it, we must come after the municipalities so that they make that effort. This is what is involved in the active employment effort, where you have to match the unemployed to the unemployed. An extraordinary effort must be made to help those who are unemployed in jobs. They may then need a course to get ready for a job. But the clarification that you are ready for a job and then need a job is done quickly, and that is the clarification that needs to be made.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409191400	Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted. There is now the clarification that I am going down from the platform). Yeah, it's settled now. Then it's mr. Peter Juel-Jensen from the Left Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409191419	Thank you for that, President. I have had a speech from the usual rapporteur of the Left, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Hans Andersen, who unfortunately could not be present in the Chamber during the debate on this point. First of all, I would like to thank the Enhedslisten for having tabled this motion for a resolution, which we in the Left are well aware of, because we are certainly also concerned about helping those people who have been stuck in the cash aid system for years. I welcome the fact that the number of people in the cash benefits system is at its lowest level for eight years. Since April 2016, nearly 32,700 have left the cash assistance system, and this is positive, not least for the individual. Enhedslisten calls it a failure. I basically agree with that; the Left basically agrees with that, and I believe that we all agree with that. Then we can disagree on how to ensure the best help, because one thing is certain: it is a great challenge to which there is no easy solution. First of all, we must remember that we are dealing with a group of citizens who, in addition to unemployment, have other and also complex challenges. Therefore, the municipalities must carry out a comprehensive social assessment, looking at the individual challenges of the citizens and the opportunities for action with the right help. It is, of course, absolutely essential that there be clarification as soon as possible so that the citizen can understand his situation and move forward. But we must also recognise that these are complex and individual cases for which it is difficult to set a time limit. As I said, I share the ambition of Enhedslisten, because in my world it is also strange that we keep the municipalities on accounts, economy, etc., but not on how they treat their citizens. So I fully share my ambition. I would therefore like to conclude by saying that we in the Left are very concerned that we are helping more citizens away from the edge of the labour market and helping them to get a foot inside. With the project "More people are going to join us," we focus on getting the most vulnerable cash benefits recipients back into the labour market, and we focus on the fact that the municipalities will clarify the situation for those citizens who have been more than 5 years in the cash benefits system. The project has certainly revealed challenges in the municipalities, but has certainly also shown good results. Nine out of ten people in the project have received a personal job intermediary and over 1,000 people have entered employment, education or flex jobs. Therefore, we in the Left are pleased that the project has been continued with the rate pool both in 2018 and 2019. There should be no doubt that the Left is very concerned about providing the best help to this group of citizens. Finally, however, we doubt that the Enhedslisten proposal will make a real difference and that is why we cannot support the proposal. And then I should like to greet the Conservatives and say that they agree with the Left on this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409191716	And that gave rise to a question from Mr. Finn Sørensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409191719	That we do not agree with the Conservatives or vice versa does not seem to surprise anyone. However, my comment applies to the point where the rapporteur says that there is doubt that it will make a real difference. There are two sides to this proposal. One is that we would like to equip municipalities with an obligation and citizens with a right to clarify their situation within one year and in exceptional cases two years. The second important element is that money goes along with exactly what the rapporteur stresses the need to invest in a number of social workers and case workers. Because it is a prerequisite, whether you want to use the Enhedslisten model or whether you want to use any other model. If you want to solve this huge problem, you have to invest in some people who are going to help these people we're talking about. And that is what we have in the proposal. So why wouldn't that help? I simply do not understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409191811	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409191817	Well, there are two things here. The first is that, with regard to the procedural requirement which the rapporteur would like to keep the municipalities to, as I said in the rapporteur's speech, it is usually very complex and diverse challenges that you face if you cannot achieve that. Because I fully agree with the rapporteur that this is about getting the matter under way as soon as possible. But the second is that it must also be dealt with in the best possible way. If we cannot resolve this within the time limits set by the rapporteur, then we must take the time it takes. And then I can also understand from the Minister's speech and from the answers that have been given, that in the settlement behind the •More people have to deal with many of the things that the rapporteur mentions is a challenge. However, I recognise that the rapporteur wants to resolve this, and I also think it is a good idea that we should take that discussion and that we should get a status on it on an ongoing basis. But that is also what I have heard the Minister say. So there are a lot of good warm words from up here, but just not a connection to the proposal • also because there is something else in advance. And then I understand that funding is also something that is tied in a different way. I have no idea; that is not my area. However, I would like to agree that we are also holding the municipalities to a greater extent that they have a responsibility towards a very special group of citizens who have a very special challenge, which is often more than being unemployed, but also that we are doing so in such a way that things can now go as fast as they can.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409191949	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409191951	Thank you. And thank you for all the positive statements. I would say that, in relation to the very large group which has been on cash benefits for many years, a very small part of them has been dealt with in order to be realistic now. But I think it is a good effort and I would like to see it turned up. And that's what this proposal is all about. Finally, however, I would just like to say that it is actually strange; the Left is a party which, if any, has fought for the introduction of a health care guarantee and those demands are even much tougher than the 12 months or 24 months that I am running here. Why is it so bad to give unemployed people and sick people a guarantee that they can get clarification of their situation within one year or possibly two years?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409192048	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409192051	Now I assume that Mr. Finn Sørensen listened as attentively to the Minister as I did. I could understand that there is an announcement on the way which will keep the municipalities so firm that they come with the right help within the right time, so that they can help the citizens. With the knowledge that I have in this area, I do not think it is possible to compare the two things immediately: the rights of patients in the health sector and this right towards the municipalities. However, I am aware that good parties have put themselves together in the circle...More people have to join us and have looked at how we do this job best and in such a way that we can also say to the individual citizen that you can not only expect your municipality to comply with the economic side of the matter, but also that there are some guidelines on how to be treated as a citizen in the municipalities if you get help needs. Actually, I think you're on your way. However, I agree with the rapporteur that we will not resolve this overnight. But we're on the move.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409192149	And it is now a movement down the platform. Thank you, sir. Peter Juel-Jensen. Then it's Mrs. Laura Lindahl, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409192154	Thank you. From here, I should also like to thank the Enhedslisten for putting this on the agenda. I mean, I think this debate is important because in these years we are seeing support for the welfare society's safety net being challenged. We are experiencing this because there are a number of citizens who have the impression that, having been on the labour market for many years and paying taxes, when they find themselves in a situation where they need the welfare society because they get sick, lose their jobs, society fails. So it's a perception that they're cycling around the system. And whether it is justified or not, it is the view that is out there and I see a problem in the fact that support for the system has begun to crack. After all, this proposal is about putting the citizen over the system, and I basically like that. As Mr. Finn Sørensen says this is about giving the citizen a right to know his place, to know what is going to happen now. We basically share that in the Liberal Alliance; we think it is right to put the citizen over the system. Now several people have mentioned this bet-pool initiative... more people are going with it as something good and something that has made a difference. Yes, of course it has, but it is against a sad background, because the fact is that new funds have been given to the municipalities in order for the municipalities to look through some matters which they should have been aware of on their own and of their own accord. So of course it is fine for the municipalities to do so, but it is sad and sad that they have not done it in the first place, because that is their job. I share the intention that we should be clarified more quickly, that we should not accept that we are unfinished for such a long time. I do not believe, however, that it is right to provide a guarantee of clarification. It is rather the same as previous rapporteurs have said: that it is very complex, i.e. that it is not just a diagnosis, but a diagnosis, perhaps more diagnoses, interacting with a job and the prospect of what can be done in the long term. So without being a specialist in health versus employment, this is very complex for me. What can you do on the job market? How much can you do? It's difficult, obviously, and very individual. But I kind of share the desire. I do not know how to give the municipalities an incentive to move faster on this, in other words to clarify more quickly whether you can make a step on reimbursement, whether you can create an economic incentive, so that if there is more time, something happens. I don't know, but I think that's the kind of thing we need to look into rather than just make a very rigid clarification guarantee. Then maybe we should also see if there's anything you can search for earlier, that is, before you're down in these boxes that are very specific, with rehabilitation, resource sequences, flex jobs. In other words, is there anything that can be searched for earlier by looking at where people are going to something more superior that is easier for the municipalities, so that they can make it faster? I don't know. I think it's complex. I fully recognise that there is a problem in this area. I fully recognise that there are people who cycle around the system. But when I have the municipal perspective, there are also some things that I find it difficult for the municipalities to do differently because they need to have it documented very clearly, and they need to test and be sure that there is not a working capacity that can be further developed if, for example, you are going on early retirement. So it's complex, but there's no doubt about it now it's not certain that we'll reach anything before a parliamentary election that in the next session it's one of the things that must be at the top of the agenda in terms of getting the system off the ground and helping citizens more quickly and more smoothly to clarify. So the Liberal Alliance does not support the concrete proposal, but would like to continue working on what we can do in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409192640	Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409192643	Thank you. It was a very good wording: the citizen over the system. I should have thought of that, because that is exactly what we are proposing. The citizen must be endowed with a right I think I formulated myself a little old-fashioned and dry and left-wing. I should have said, the citizen of the system. That's what it's all about. Thank you for that interpretation. Then it is just so unfortunate that Mrs Laura Lindahl has seen the light, so that is what the proposal is about so that it will not stand by when it comes to the matter. How else could we put the citizen over the system if we do not give the citizen rights? That's what this is all about. Then there is something that doesn't add up, because suddenly it all gets very, very complicated. It may take a long time to clarify a person, and it is individual and up and down posts. That is absolutely right. But it is no more complicated than that with the project that we all refer to, more people have to be able to clarify perhaps 23,000 people within two years. That's quite a lot, though. Why would you do that? Because you sent some money to the municipalities, so they had manpower to do the job. So why does it all have to be so complicated? That is the second part of our proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409192752	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409192755	But what is strange in this context is that the municipalities actually have an economic incentive to do this themselves. Well, it's not a profit business for the municipalities just to leave the bunkers lying and growing. It is a better business for the municipalities to take care of the citizens and have them searched, so what is it that makes the municipalities do it only when there is a new bag of money for it? I think that is the question that needs to be clarified. Why don't the municipalities do this when they could make money doing it?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409192831	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409192834	There are two answers or reasons for this, and I think the rapporteur really knows them well. One is that a majority in this Parliament and changing governments have for years tightened the economic screw against the municipalities, and that there is a budget law that prevents the municipalities from • most municipalities, except for those who have a lot of money they can use to make the social investment that everyone is talking about. They must not be allowed to do so for the budget law, except for a few that can mingelize a little with the funds; the large majority cannot. That's one reason for it. The second reason is, of course, the reorganization of the reimbursement system, which means that it is financially beneficial for the municipalities if they have some citizens who cannot work or cannot get a job, because then the municipality will just have to have them on the lowest possible social benefits, namely cash benefits, because it is the cheapest for the municipality compared to giving the citizens early retirement or the flow of resources. So that's the explanation for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409192927	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409192930	However, the reimbursement was also intended to ensure that those who came in got out quickly, so there were actually resources to take care of those who were a little heavier. That was the purpose of the refund change that was made, namely that you could take care of those who came in and get them out immediately, so that you had a surplus to deal with the slightly heavier cases. But I still don't feel convinced that I know why it doesn't happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409192957	Thank you to Mrs Laura Lindahl. Then we've reached Mr. Knox. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409193003	Thank you so much. It is a very good proposal to give unemployed Danes a 12 month clarification guarantee, in special cases 24 months. I do not think that the only reason why 90,000 citizens have been in the cash assistance system for more than one year is that their situation or case is complicated or that 30,000 have been the system for five years. I think it sometimes seems that municipalities can have an advantage in cash-thinking and that it is economic reasons and not citizens' rights that are the basis of the support given to the citizen. That's why we need to get the wheels going. We must not allow the citizens to disappear in the system without any clarification whatsoever. We would like the citizens concerned to be offered offers, and we would like to see offers being voluntary so that citizens can say no to them. But the offers must be given to them. In addition, I believe that the clarification guarantee can end much of the waiting time experienced in the system. Well, we have heard a lot of reports from a lot of citizens in the system. I think that waiting and waiting are a key word. We waste our citizens' time, we waste our citizens' lives. We have to stop waiting, and I think this proposal will help.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409193109	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. Sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen is on his way to the platform, I see. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409193120	Thank you. I would also like to thank the Enhedslisten for making this proposal. I think that the clarification guarantee is a very sympathetic attempt to address a very serious problem. It is clear, as all the previous speakers have said, that municipalities must carry out an overall assessment and that it can take different times. Where's the limit? What if information is missing? After all, these personal cases are not such as to put in a template, and that is also our major problem with the proposal. The Radical Left does not believe that people should be parked in the cash aid system. We have said ourselves that three years should be maximum where you can be parked in the cash assistance system before moving on. We recognise the efforts that have been made. We want more to happen. Some examples have been mentioned of the rate pool initiatives. We do not think that the chosen approach in Enhedslisten's proposal is the right one. We would rather work with the municipalities because process requirements and retail management from them are not always our choice. But, as I said, we agree with the problem. We would also like to be constructive in resolving it. We will not vote in favour of the Enhedslisten's proposal because there is both a rock-proof expense on the one hand and a requirement that may not fit people when you set a very precise time limit. However, we would like to take part in the solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409193243	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409193246	Thank you. I guess that was the most upcoming thing so far. No, I'm sorry, the alternative came up with a clear message. Sorry about the alternative for that. But I was thinking of the circle that I probably also expected would not be very positive, so I would like to thank you for that. It sounded like Mr. Knox. Rasmus Helveg Petersen agreed a little more on our premises than most other rapporteurs have done. But did I hear correctly that the fact that it costs money is the problem? Or have I just completely misunderstood what the rapporteur said?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409193315	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409193317	As I have said, the Radical Left itself has previously had a proposal for a 3-year limit. What I am saying is that if you take the Enhedslisten's proposal and put it into practice, you are sure to get the expense on the other side. And then you also have a fixed limit, which is probably sometimes going to hit down in some cases about people who may require more than one year. So I do not think this is the right proposal, the right dosage. But it's not just because it costs money. It's a combination of the two things.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409193343	Thank you. Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409193345	Thank you. It is now going to be a little difficult to fight with the Radicals' proposals, because I do not have such a fresh memory of what it was all about. But have the Radicals really imagined that if we said that there would be a 3-year limit on how long you might be parked in the cash aid system, then something else would happen, an offer of something new and something better etc. to the citizens, according to what they need? Are you radicals thinking it wouldn't cost money?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409193411	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409193413	No, it would certainly also be an effort that costs money. But of course there is also the hope that we could then avoid this talk about parking and be sure that people got the offer that I think they should have.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409193425	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen. Then we've reached Mr. Knox. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409193434	From here, I should also like to thank Enhedslisten for raising an absolutely relevant debate. After all, the SF has as a point of reference the need for citizens to have more specific rights. The citizen must be stronger in the face of the municipality, man must be stronger in the face of the system. It is therefore a good thing that this proposal now lays down a set framework for when cash benefit recipients should be offered services aimed at employment. SF is pleased to be part of the conciliation on the Act on Active Employment. In SF we also think it is necessary to keep the municipalities on a short leash. There's too much lottery today. Too much depends on zip numbers and social security numbers. There needs to be a quick clarification, but it does not necessarily have to be for employment or early retirement, as Enhedslisten writes. In addition, the pile change that has taken place in a settlement that Enhedslisten is not part of shows that it only seems relevant for one third. In other words, the rest of these people must be assumed to need a social effort, and this can of course also be part of a process of resources, but where employment is the perspective. I also think it would be a good thing if, after 12 or 14 months, the effort could be an intensified social effort. And I would also like to point out that I can now evidently see that Enhedslisten actually sees opportunities in the course of resources. SF is positive about this proposal, but we are probably a little sceptical about whether we can do something for up to 70,000 people in such a short space of time. But a positive attitude to the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409193637	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409193639	Thank you. And thank you for your positive statement. I would just like to remind the rapporteur that if you look at what clarification is to be given, if I may say so, then there are several possibilities. It is necessary to clarify whether the citizen should be searched for ordinary employment, training, rehabilitation, resource development, flexible jobs or early retirement. And if the SF believes that we should also explicitly specify a social policy effort or what the rapporteur described it, then I would very much like to take it on board, because that is something that may well be the case. What is important about the proposal, and I think the rapporteur has understood this, is that there must be a clear commitment and a right for the citizen to do something, not just to be allowed to go on cash aid for years, and that money also goes with the municipalities to do the job.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409193732	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409193734	Well, I'm kind of convinced that Enhedslisten and SF will be able to meet about this. I just think it was important to bear in mind that, as I read the Enhedslisten's proposal, it is something that is mainly aimed at either early retirement or employment, and there is the fact that the bunker from the agreement has to be included by more than one third of the time that it was directly relevant to only one third. That is what I think, by the way, one will be able to count on and expect that it is probably an intensified social effort that needs to be done. I think that the other purposes which Enhedslisten listed are also quite excellent.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409193806	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409193813	Yes, because in proposals such as education, rehabilitation and resource development there is precisely the social policy effort. It is, of course, the framework for social policy action that is also contained in those proposals. So it doesn't sound like we're having any particular disagreements, and then I think we should take a look at it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409193835	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409193836	Yeah, and that's why I'm sure we're gonna get to each other. But it is not, as I see it, an intensified social policy effort when the proposal mostly describes such things as education or rehabilitation. Many of the people we are dealing with here are not at all ready to get there yet, because everything else is in the way. It can be addiction to alcohol or drugs, or you can be out in a semi-criminal race. You can have all sorts of other challenges before there can be any sense whatsoever in talking about education or rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409193910	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Karsten Hønge, and then we have actually reached the rapporteur for the proposers, Mr. Finn Sørensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409193925	Thank you and thank you for the debate. After all, it is rare for so many praises to be received in this Parliament from all the rapporteurs and the Minister without exception. The problem with some of those roses is that they have been withered before you really get down to your place and home to the wife with them. Because the roses stop where you have to deal with a specific tool that would move us forward in the direction in which everyone is saying we are going, and the latter I believe in fact: I believe that everyone has the same attitude here, namely that it is a huge failure on the part of people if they are allowed to walk, excuse the expression, for lye and cold water in the cash aid system for years. They're not getting any help to move on. So this is the honest reality of this. I think we share the intention. I am actually pleased with the progress that has been made since we took the whole debate on this cash aid ceiling. Because it was the debate that led to the then Minister for Employment having to come up with something. For what we criticised by the opposition was that the ceiling on cash aid, the 225-hour rule and, for that matter, the integration benefit also affected a lot of people who were unable to work, while at the same time it was said that it should pay for work and that it was therefore necessary to tighten up financially with these people. It then gave rise to a debate that led to this more must be included, because the government could well see that it was an unsustainable position that had been taken in that discussion. Then a great deal of money was thrown after getting an effort made for the group that had been in the cash assistance system for more than 5 years. It was a gross group of approx. 25,000 people, and it cost approx. 300 million kr. Then you started it, and then it actually turned out that within a short period of approx. 2 years well could help the people and create a clarification of their situation and get them started with something that was a little more drifting in, or face the fact that they had to have the early retirement. That's what we've been inspired by. Then we've just looked at the reality of the cash benefits system, and it's scary. We have explained this in the comments, but let us take some of the figures: barely approx. Ninety thousand people, according to the figures given by the Minister, have been in the cash assistance system for more than one year. If you have to deal with the measuring stick that we are going to set up, namely two years, what does it look like? How many have been in the cash benefits system for more than two years? It has 67,000 people. It is shameful when we look at how developments have been since 2016, when we started discussing this here, although we can see that it is absolutely true that the total number of people in the cash assistance system has decreased significantly. Then we argue about whether it is because the government and the Danish People's Party take some money from those people and make sure that they have very little to live on, or whether it is because there has been a boom where there has been a place in the labour market for that group. That is not what we have to decide here. We can just note that the total number has fallen, and we are all pleased about this regardless of what the cause is • to the extent that they have moved on in jobs or education. I think that for the group that has ended up in a situation completely out of support, and that is also part of the explanation ■ the story is not so pink, but for the group that has moved on, it is really good. Nevertheless, we note that for the group that is now left, it is actually going the wrong way, because the proportion of those who have been long-term parking, if that is to say, is growing. If we take the group, which has been from 7 to 10 years in the cash aid system, then we can see that that group is growing by 3,765 people, so that that group is now up to just over 10,000. If we look at those who have been more than 10 years in the cash assistance system, then there is only a very, very small drop despite the efforts made in many of them. That is not to say that no one has been helped. I fully agree that you have. But we have to face up to the fact that more drastic means are needed. That is what we are proposing here, where we say two things. One is that we need to equip the municipalities with a clear commitment, which is written into the legislation, to when they will have to clarify the situation of people entering the cash benefits system at the latest and report and apply for cash benefits. You need to find out if those people need a job or a social policy effort to stay in Mr. Karsten Hønge language, or at least find out what benefits they should have. Because we must avoid them being stuck in the cash assistance system for many years. That is what it is all about, and every time you give the municipalities an obligation and thereby give the citizens a right, you must ensure that money goes with it. I do not know if that is where the water will part after all, because there are many reasons for the situation we have come in here. However, one of them is undoubtedly the very tight straitjacket that changing governments and the majority here in the Folketing have put around the municipalities' opportunities to move and provide the right initiatives for citizens. If it is the case that there are no obligations for the municipality, and at the same time the municipality is extremely hard pressed financially, then the easiest thing in the world is to forget all those who are on cash benefits, and especially those who cannot just jump into the labour market. And that is, of course, if we are to peel off all the fine words, actually what has happened. For the vast majority of the people who have been in the cash aid system for many years is what the municipalities themselves call activity preparation, that is. It is recognized that they have many other problems than unemployment. And then it goes without saying that if you are to help that group of people, it requires a purely financial build-up. It's the second part of Enhedslisten's proposal that we make sure that the money comes along, and there we've looked at what it cost to make this more money, and then we've just figured it out in relation to how many cash aid recipients we're going to help over the next few years. The least one could have expected from those parties that do not think there is any sense in this proposal was that they said: yes, now we will live up to what we say ourselves and the money that the Enhedslisten is proposing we simply drop off; we will get them so that over the next few years we can get something done for these 67 000 people who have been in the cash aid system for more than 2 years. Unfortunately, however, we have not received such a statement, and I must therefore say that I am not satisfied with the promises that the municipalities will now be placed under administration, as was proposed. Firstly, because I have not heard anything about the fact that there are clear demands among the things on which the municipalities are to be measured, that is to say, on time-limits for the proceedings. that the disaster we are seeing today may be allowed to grow and continue in the years to come. Secondly, it has not been said that money should be set aside so that local authorities can make social investments. All municipalities are given the opportunity, not just those who can afford to make the investment here and now or just bet wildly and hope that it will not be discovered and that they will not be punished by the strict Finance Minister who comes with the Krabash because they do not comply with the strict accounting principles of the Budget Act. I don't hear anything about that. There you just say, yes, the minister's gonna do some target numbers and something like that, and then we're gonna look at them. However, as far as the target figures are concerned, I have not heard anyone, even in this debate, who has said that we must at least have some target figures in place to determine how long the municipalities are going to start the efforts they want. So that's the thing with the withered roses, but thanks for them anyway. I took a picture, no, I didn't, but I got glad and I'll hide it in my heart that I got some roses. But most of all I would like to welcome the praises that came from the Alternative and from the SF, which can see that we therefore need to equip citizens with some rights and municipalities with clear obligations.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409194847	Thank you, sir. Finn Sørensen. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the negotiations have ended. I propose that the motion for a resolution be referred to the Employment Committee. There are no objections. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409194904	We are opening the debate, and we are opening the debate with the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409194923	Thank you. The motion for a resolution requires the government to put forward a bill amending the Data Protection Act which allows private individuals to publish photos and videos from private surveillance cameras in connection with forced entry or theft. According to the proposers, only the photos and videos attached to the police report may be made public. I would like to begin by saying that crime cannot be accepted and that it is never fair to be exposed to crime either. This applies to all types of crime and, of course, to burglary and theft. That's exactly why I launched the show last November... security for shopkeepers. The aim of the action is to take tough action against shoplifting with seven concrete initiatives, so that traders have good framework conditions for running the store. This means, among other things, that areas particularly affected by shoplifting must have targeted and strengthened police action and that we must strengthen information for shops so that they know where and how surveillance must be set up. In addition, we strongly oppose foreign thieves who come to Denmark to commit illegal acts. At the same time, here in the Folketing last year, we adopted an amendment to the law on television surveillance which allows operators to share surveillance images under a number of conditions in an internal IT system. In addition, in December 2017, we in the Danish Parliament have tightened the penalty for burglary. We did so by inserting a separate provision on burglary into the criminal code, after which burglary is punished by up to 11⁄2 years of imprisonment, and the penalty can go to prison for up to 6 years if the burglary is of a particularly serious nature. It is extremely insulting to be subjected to burglary or theft, but we cannot, therefore, organise ourselves to share surveillance images of suspected perpetrators on social media, regardless of whether they are possible perpetrators of a crime committed against oneself. Monitoring images on social media are shared to the general public. We therefore need to make sure that the people on display in the public sector are in fact some who are supposed to be perpetrators, so that we do not bring other random people into such a context. It is also important for me to emphasise that it is the police who have the expertise to assess the necessary steps to be taken in the investigation of burglary and theft cases. You can, for example. Imagine a burglary in a library committed by three perpetrators seen on the surveillance from the scene. Surveillance is shared within the police to identify the three men. A police officer recognizes one of the three and through previous cases there are possible associates. The police are thus able to arrest them at the same time so that they cannot agree with their explanations. And in addition, the police have the opportunity to search after e.g. the stolen costs and the clothes they were wearing at the time of the crime. If the surveillance had been published immediately or shortly after the break-in, the perpetrators or friends would probably have seen the pictures, and this had provided an opportunity to reconcile explanations as well as dispose of clothes and costs and do all sorts of other things that would make it difficult for the police to solve the crime. Surveillance images often cannot stand alone in proving that a criminal offence has been committed, and so there is a risk that the perpetrators will be spared punishment if they have been warned through the publication of surveillance. It is therefore important that we let the police do their job. That is also why we have put in place a system whereby the police can publish surveillance images collected by citizens who have been exposed to crime and on whom the police want information. Citizens can then • and it is important to say • share links to the police website on social media or by other means. With this arrangement, it is thus the police who decide whether the images are shared or not. Of course, such a division from the police must take place as soon as possible, and I would like to stress this today: of course this must be done as soon as possible. In this way, we balance the consideration of being able, on the one hand, to help prevent burglary and theft and, on the other hand, to ensure that innocent people are not displayed on public websites and that we do not destroy police investigations into cases. I think that is the right balance. I know the proposers' point of view in this area... it does not come as a shock... but now I have explained why the government cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409195408	Thank you, Minister. There is a brief comment from Peter Kofod, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409195409	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Minister for Justice for the speech. I would like to ask the Minister whether the Minister feels that we are in the process of achieving this or whether there are more initiatives that Parliament can or should take. The Minister rejects our proposal. Otherwise, I think that this is an excellent proposal which we have had the opportunity to discuss before. The Minister then mentions initiatives that we have jointly taken to try to draw this in the right direction. But I still hear away from, for example. small traders who are experiencing major problems in this area and who have a feeling that they are not taken seriously when they report it. They're taking a huge financial risk by running their own business and having a loss on this. If the Minister does not agree to the proposal as it stands here, is there anything the Minister has in mind that could be done instead?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409195454	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409195502	I agree that things are constantly evolving. There will be new opportunities and, of course, we must deal without prejudice with what this offers of opportunity, and we must keep in mind who are the victims of this case. Of course, it's people who have been robbed or robbed. That was also the reason for this proposal about the security of shopkeepers. That was the result of saying that we had to do something here. I will also deal with it without prejudice, and if there are any other good proposals, we shall have to look at them. When I react to this with platoons, it's more from that point of view that I think we have to be very careful when it comes to who's supposed to control it. Should you take the law into your own hands and just share pictures of people, or is it the police who do it? But otherwise, I'm actually very ready to discuss most things. I guess that's why things have changed over time. We have tightened it considerably, and we have also changed the TV watching law here last year, so there have been some more opportunities. So I think we are going in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409195602	Sir. Peter Kofod.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409195606	I am pleased that the Minister certainly has a desire for us to be able to use more new tools. I'm quite sure I'm a delivery man in a list of things that I think we can do. But I would like to ask the Minister about the platform that the National Police created from which you can share photos. Once the police have received the notification and looked at it and posted the picture, you can share from the platform. Is it the impression given by the Minister that the arrangement which came as a result of a vote here in the Folketing is a success?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409195636	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409195637	After all, there is both the brand new IT solution where you can upload footage from television surveillance directly to the police. That's one thing. But I think I'll just focus on that, sir. Peter Kofod asks, of course, if people get used it; i.e. if you are aware enough, if the police have posted pictures, to share them and can find them. Actually, I don't know, to be honest. I don't even know how much people use it. But there we have to tell people that when they report something and send pictures, they have to pay attention to how quickly the police publish it, because the moment they do, it is quite fair to share it via the police link.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409195725	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. Then we start with the rapporteur's series. Sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409195735	Thank you. It is, of course, the case that the Danish People's Party has tabled the same motion for a resolution in the past. The fact that it is now happening again does not alter the fact that the proposal is still a fundamental breach of the important principles of the rule of law. I would like to reiterate the points made by our rapporteur last time the Danish People's Party made the proposal. With this proposal, the proposers would like to see private shots and videos from surveillance cameras made public by private individuals and companies. DF specifically writes in the proposal that the image documentation should be shared on social media, on websites and in physical form. I would like to start by stating that the Social Democrats want to combat criminals with all possible means within the dignity of the rule of law, and this also means that we want to look at how to limit the number of break-ins. That is why we have also presented a package of burglars to stem burglary. However, because we are in favour of a society governed by the law, we strongly reject vigilanteness and that is what the proposers are proposing. It is the police who, on behalf of us as citizens, are investigating crime, and that means that it is the courts that ultimately do not judge us as citizens. When the Danish People's Party wants us as citizens to start searching each other through social media, it basically violates the most important principles of the rule of law. In this context, let me make it clear that citizens must, of course, be able to hand over image documentation to the police and should do so, and they can do so today. However, it is and must continue to be the police who assess whether this documentation should be published and whether persons should be sought. It's not about protecting the criminals... in no way... but the problem with the Danish People's Party's proposal is that innocent people risk being hanged out for crimes that they haven't committed. Particularly on social media, we must recognise that there are major problems with people who have not understood how to commit themselves and who use the web as revenge or in other ways hang out in an unfair way. Social democracy cannot therefore support the proposal. We believe that photo documentation should be passed on to the police, and then the police can assess whether there is evidence to publish the documentation in connection with the investigation. Of course, we are happy to discuss how to further limit theft and burglary compared to today, but we will not be supporting the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409195941	There is just one brief comment from Mr. Peter Kofod, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409195946	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. That is a little paradoxical, because on the one hand it is a cold rejection of the proposal here, but on the other hand I can also remember the history of the debate we have had on this. The situation is that we in the Danish People's Party have had a good working relationship with the Social Democrats too, and with the help of the Social Democrats we had done something about creating a platform where the police and citizens could share surveillance images more easily and more quickly. So I'm actually just gonna ask sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, whether the Social Democrats think we're in this area. We do not think so, but if anyone can come up with a better idea than the one we have in this proposal, then we are interested in discussing it. So, I just want to know if Mr. Chandler... Lars Aslan Rasmussen has other or better ideas that the rapporteur wants to share with us.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409200035	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409200037	I think I was told that we are not in the finish line, and in that way there are still problems; a break-in is a break-in too much. But I might turn it around and ask the Danish People's Party something: Can you see the problem if everyone can put something on the social media without proof of anything? I understand that someone may have something that they can rightly complain about. After all, we had this mother, where someone exposed herself to her daughter, but you can also imagine that someone deliberately abuses it and hangs somebody out. And there I think that if you have some pictures that you hold and that are important, then you're gonna have to give it to the police. I do not know if everyone is aware that they can do it, and perhaps something more could be done to ensure that people know that they have that opportunity. But I think it must be the police who publish the pictures that they believe are of public interest.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409200119	Sir. Peter Kofod.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409200122	Sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen must arm himself with patience for a moment yet to ask me questions, because it usually goes on a tour. But I'll be happy to go to the platform later, and then sir... Lars Aslan Rasmussen asked me about the consequences of this proposal. I'm gonna ask you again, because I think we talked past each other. When I ask if there are any new initiatives to be taken, I am curious about the answer. When you look around the media and hear the personal reports, it appears that we are not in the goal. What I am asking, however, is what the Socialists will do to ensure that we get to the finish line.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409200150	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409200152	We would very much like to look at it, and we have also presented this package of break-ins, and we would very much like to strengthen various initiatives and strengthen the police. The rapporteur has put forward this proposal, and then I just think that perhaps some problems can also be seen in it. I find it hard to see that this gives rise to fewer break-ins, and one might be more afraid that it will give rise to some abuse, but I will ask you that. Peter Kofod on later when the rapporteur has the floor. I would like to point out that we would very much like to look at other options, strengthening the police and so on. and the possibility of transmitting information.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409200223	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Preben Bang Henriksen from the Left Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409200231	Thank you. The rule in the Code of Procedure today concerning what we are talking about here is Paragraph 818 and it provides that the police can publish their many pictures, etc. by a suspected person, if it is essential for the investigation, in the case of a serious offence which may result in more than one and a half years in prison. Basically, it's the police's decision. It is also the police's decision whether this is a disproportionate offence, that is to say that you do not publish a picture of a 15-year-old who has stolen a Yankie Bar or something like that; it is a decision that today lies with the police. In this respect, it is worth mentioning that the resolution we are dealing with today is about publishing photos and videos from surveillance cameras, that is. from shops and the like. And let me say straight away: I actually fully understand the background to the proposal, for nothing must be more depressing. After all, we have seen examples of this on television for shopkeepers than more or less implicitly to be able to see that their shops are emptied of goods by people who actually have nothing to fear. At least they're not too busy getting out the door. I cannot think of the people in question as saying: here we must be able to publish photos, videos, etc., if only to warn other shops that the government has already taken account of this, but also in order to have them arrested. So I fully understand the background and I understand the outrage. But I have to say once again that it is not the intention that others should judge or that the businessman should judge in a case where it may not always be entirely clear who it is that appears from the pictures; whether something is done criminally; whether it is a person under the age of criminals who does it, etc. etc. We fully understand the proposal, but, at the same time, as we believe that the investigation should lie with the police, we cannot accept it here. Because we understand the proposal, I would say that the counter piece must be that you can file your material with the police and that the police then review the material. In my optics it could be within 24 hours of any publication. It must of course be in situations where it is quite clear who it is, that there is a certain amount of sharpness, if I may use that expression, so that there can be no confusion; where you can also see that something criminal is happening; where you have no doubt that someone above the age of criminals is doing it, that is. a person who can be punished in the end. In those situations, I think it would be quite fine for the police to be able to publish this and think that they should and should publish these pictures very quickly. But I do not think that it should be up to the individual citizen, the individual businessman, to judge whether or not something should be published in a wider context. I guess we're talking about the net here, but that's the same thing as putting the person up on a poster out in the front or on a poster out on the lamppost. Well, I just have to say that this is a decision that the police have to make and not the individual businessman. However, as I have said, I fully understand the frustration of businessmen, and that is also why my proposal is that the police should be provided with more effective means of publishing it if the police consider that the necessary basis for publication is there.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409200640	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Kofod.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409200643	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Some time ago I visited a businessman on a pedestrian street in Jutland who had been exposed to someone coming in and having stolen a very, very expensive jacket. The businessman called the police in vain for help, and when nothing happened, he left a picture on Facebook. And when he had done that, the police came, because then he had really violated this person who had stolen a very, very expensive jacket, and of course he had to be prosecuted for that, and he also had to be fined. - Sir... Preben Bang Henriksen explain to me the reasonableness of that?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409200718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409200719	To put it bluntly, it is two incomparable acts, two incomparable criminal acts, I must say. One is about stealing something, and that applies to what I said before the other is about publishing things online, and that is a violation of the data protection law. I fully understand where the questioner is going. And I have to say: no, it works for most people and also for me as being disproportionately in relation to the punishment. Of course, the police should come straight away and should punish the thief, by the way, much harder than you punish the person who is reporting.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409200804	Thank you, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go. I understand that the rapporteur of the Left also spoke on behalf of the Conservative People's Party. That is what has been indicated here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409200828	Otherwise, I could say hello to them. Laughter Yes, especially in this case, where something suggests that everything else equal is still a bit bourgeois decency left in this Parliament. I'm glad. So I would like to say hello to the Conservatives. And I would also like to thank the Minister for his speech, because the Enhedslisten is part of the sensible club which says that such a proposal is, of course, to open up to vigilante action. If there is a break-in and theft in a private home or in a store, then it is the police's job to investigate the offence, and if there are photos or video recordings of the crime, it is professional policemen who must have these pictures as soon as possible so that they can solve the matter. They must, of course, do so on the basis of a fundamental principle of the rule of law that everyone is innocent until proven guilty. That is why we have created a community of law in which we have a division of power and in which we have put the police to investigate crimes and the prosecution to decide whether to prosecute and accuse citizens who violate the laws of the country and a court that decides whether the prosecution is right if it makes such a charge. That's how it's supposed to be. If, as stated in the proposal, we allowed private citizens or businessmen to display suspected or suspected persons on notice boards, on social media or on other websites, this would lead to the publication of images and videos solely on the assumption of guilt, that is, on the assumption of a single citizen that another citizen has broken the law. I find it worrying that we can see such a proposal at all, and I look forward to hearing whether the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party has given some thought to what kind of a Pandora's box is being opened up to here, to arbitraryities among citizens, to hatred and division between people, to the possibility of revenge on some people that are, for one reason or another, angry or angry. It is such a kind of thing, you might say, that the citizens' right to put each other in a gaping stick is being opened up to here. It's pretty much worse than what we had in the Middle Ages. There was the gentleman who decided if people were going in a yawning stick. Here it is left to the individual citizens. That is, of course, the ultimate consequence of such a resolution. Several other rapporteurs have pointed out that in certain cases the police choose to publish pictures of suspects. According to our knowledge, this happens only in a few cases, and there is probably a reason for this, because if you came to publish a picture of someone who subsequently turned out to be innocent, then that suspicion would be very difficult to get rid of again. So no matter how many times the police then declare that the person is no longer a suspect, it hangs with the person, even if he has actually been acquitted in the courts. So you have to be very, very careful with it. And I and our party are pleased that the police are very careful about that. It is very simple: we have the police to solve crimes, it should amateurs not take care of it would be vigilante. If we in the Danish Parliament believe that the police are unable to solve burglary and theft, for example. That they have to be hung out on Facebook before anything happens, then you have to consider whether the police have the right resources instead of resorting to such methods or whether their work can be prioritised in a different way than it is today, so that they solve the tasks they have to do. So the Enhedslisten cannot support this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409201229	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Kofod. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409201233	Thank you. There was actually an incredible amount of question I would have liked to have asked about the methods of punishment in the Middle Ages, because I understand that this is apparently much worse than what was done in the Middle Ages. I do not agree with that point. But there was something else that interested me more, and that was the rapporteur's conclusion to the speech, in which the rapporteur says that if the police do not have the resources, then we must consider whether there is anything else that can be done there. And there I would like to ask Enhedslisten's rapporteur whether it is Enhedslisten's policy that the police should have added more resources and more years' work, because then I think it would be a happy new break that I have been thirsting for for 31⁄2 years, that is to say that Enhedslisten will finally bite to fuck and stand on the platform and say that we should provide the police with the resources they need.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409201314	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409201315	The sentence I said there I have heard my former legal rapporteur, Mrs Pernille Skipper, use on various occasions, so that is absolutely no new view on the part of the Enhedslisten. We are just making a concrete assessment of what resources it is, what tasks it is, and there it may not always be in agreement with what the Danish People's Party and a majority in the Danish Parliament believe should be spent on. But the Enhedslisten has no principle that the police should be starved. Now I want to talk about something I know about, because I am not the legal rapporteur, and that is the administrative effort in relation to social dumping. There I have fought for and fortunately agreed with the then Minister for Employment, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, that it was a very good idea to throw more money at the police, in particular the checks to be carried out on the roads, the heavy car section of the police. I've read and learned such a hard word. So it is no new view on the part of the Enhedslisten that we can vote for increased resources for the police.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409201419	Sir. Peter Kofod.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409201420	That is good, because until a few years ago, your programme of principles stated that police and defense should be abolished. So it is a good thing that this is how we have got back on the ground and say that, after all, we should not do this, but we should have a stronger police force. However, it has ignored my attention that Mrs Pernille Skipper has at one point said that apparently we should have more police officers, so I would like to ask about the ambition. How much are we talking about here? Can the Enhedslisten's rapporteur confirm that there is a desire to strengthen the police force, and can we get closer? I take what is being said at the moment from the platform very positively, not the rapporteur's speech, but the answer before.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409201456	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409201457	If the rapporteur listened, he has no reason to interpret what he is doing. I specifically said that it is not automatic that we want more resources in general. We would like to reserve, and this is the case with all other public activities, the right to assess what it is for activities and how the current funds are used in relation to it and to discuss it on the basis of specific issues. It could, for example, be done. If the police have enough resources to contribute to the fight against social dumping, if the police have enough resources to contribute to the fight against trafficking in human beings, if the police have enough resources to help prostitutes, because it is also a task for the police to help, namely to get prostitutes out of prostitution, and if the police have enough resources to cooperate with schools and municipalities to prevent crime. We would like to take part in this discussion. It is just to mention some areas, but I will not rule out the possibility of some areas being found where savings might be possible. It could, for example, be done. Be on police horses.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409201603	Thank you, sir. Finn Sørensen. There are no more brief comments, and then it is Mrs Christina Egelund, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409201615	Thank you, President. With this resolution, the Danish People's Party wants to change the data protection law, that is, the law that will protect our data. But it is something of a watering down of the very purpose of the data protection law that we are proposing, because what we are proposing is the opposite: a more lax approach to the data we want to protect. After all, digitalisation offers many opportunities, but there are also many dangers that come with digitalisation. As we live our lives more and more digitally, we also leave behind more and more digital tracks, among others. also on video camera as a result of video surveillance. And the clues and data that come with a digital life must be handled with caution, and that is what the data protection law is set in the world for. This also applies when you are in a situation where you feel absolutely sure that you have filmed or photographed a criminal act. You may be standing there robbing something from your store, and you're absolutely convinced that you've caught it on camera and have it on a video footage. In this situation, I understand that anyone who has that data may want to use it, and if you think that the police are dull in the process of clearing up, you want to resort to vigilante action. I kind of get that. However, it is of no use that we should, on the one hand, relax the protection of data at a time when there is increasing data and where it is also extremely vulnerable, and, on the other hand, that we are also compromising on it, that in a society governed by the law it is the police that investigate criminal acts and not various facebook forums and civilians at all. What is at stake, if you do so, is, on the one hand, a relaxation of the protection of our private data, as I said before, but it is also at stake that innocent citizens are at risk of being subjected to judicial murder, and I do not think we should do so, because it is the case that if someone on the Internet is first connected with something, it is almost impossible to be deleted again. That is to say, if you are first connected by a shopkeeper or another or a witness, or whatever it may be, with a break-in or another criminal act on the Internet, it may later turn out that the suspicion had nothing on it, but the suspicion will forever stick to you in the digital history book. That is, of course, the equivalent, if you are to try to be a little concrete, of the fact that Mr. Peter Kofod e.g. One day he visits a gas station, and at the same time Mr. Peter Kofod is there, there are some bandits who commit a break-in, and Mr. Peter Kofod is unwittingly filmed by the site's video surveillance. The owner of the gas station feels absolutely convinced that it was Mr. Peter Kofod, who robbed something at that gas station, thinks the police are a little sluggish in the upholstery, post even that video recording with mr. Peter Kofod says here's the young man who robbed my gas station. Then it may well be that there will be a process in which Mr. Peter Kofod is acquitted, and it turns out that suspicion had nothing on it, but that story will forever adhere to Mr. Peter Kofod, and I'm not going to postpone that, sir. Peter Kofod too. The Liberal Alliance is against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409201951	Thank you. Then it's mr. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409202000	Thank you. And thank you for the motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party, which has been quite well beamed through by my colleagues, I think. And the Minister also acknowledges that there is good reason for frustration if, as a businessman or a private person, you experience an illegal act against you, a burglary, for example, and you see that there is no such thing as that. resources or just due diligence, or whatever it must be, to get something done about the problem when it occurs. And it is and it is a huge problem for a great many traders that it is simply not being followed up. You have a feeling that if there is a break-in, it is almost useless to contact the police in several places, and that is basically really, really a pity for our society, and not least for our police officers. Now I have to be careful what I say, because otherwise I will have to be tied up to the police in just a few minutes, but I would like to say at my own expense, and that actually matches what we always say in the Alternative, that we would like to be involved in investing in the public sector if there are places where there is a lack of funds, so that the service we can expect in relation to the tax we pay will be adequately met. So also in relation to the police, we would very much like to take a look at: how can we do so so that we do not break with the essential values of our legal society, as this proposal would in my view do if we actually legitimize vigilanteness? Because it's self-righteous to put pictures out in this way of uncondemned persons. That is where we could set up, for example. a working group, or who is now the best at such a thing, will ensure that within 24 hours I think it was the rapporteur of the Left who mentioned it, whether with the images now available from the surveillance cameras there was something to come for, and then the police should have an obligation to proceed with them within that time frame. And then, as a businessman or a private person, you knew that if there was enough in what you had available, it would probably be dealt with. Today you might have the feeling that if you're unlucky and it just lands in the wrong place or there's no one at work and something like that, then it's no use. And there you could make a stronger commitment and a more transparent value chain in relation to how such data is processed. However, I would like to say once and for all that we are still opposed, just as we were in 2015-16, when the proposal was also tabled. However, I would like to express my full appreciation of the fact that it is deeply frustrating to see that, in relation to something that is undoubtedly criminal, either there are no resources to solve it, or that it falls between two chairs, if you feel that there is some evidence that is abundant in terms of moving the matter forward. Well, let's at least take a look at it. Frankly, I don't know how to put this in the best possible position, but we certainly can't support this proposal. But let us finally try to help the police have something that they can communicate to the citizens so that it does not look so stupid on the part of the police when you cannot act on something that appears to be illegal immediately.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409202318	Thank you, sir. René Gade. There are no brief comments. And then we go to Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409202327	It was then the day when the SF declared itself to be one hundred percent in agreement with the Liberal Alliance. I think that Mrs Christina Egelund delivered a strong speech and I agree with every sentence of that speech. I think it was accurate and it addressed exactly what we are talking about. And then I could sort of just sneak back down, 'cause I have to say I can't do any better. But now I've been having trouble writing something, so I'm gonna say that I can easily understand the frustration that is with, for example, business owners, so we all can. It must be very frustrating to see that your business is cleared by people who come in and run with the goods, and then you call the police and there's no snuff going on. We can all understand that frustration. But the solution is to strengthen the police. The solution is that it is the police that must come. I was also thinking that many of you probably remember the front page of the Ekstrabladet when they exhibited a completely innocent man as a brilliant killer. That's how wrong it can be when images are uncritically passed on to the public. The case of the terrible mistakes of the Extra Leaf was not due to surveillance cameras, but it illustrates very well the danger of vigilante. And even in situations where you are absolutely sure who the perpetrator is, mistakes may obviously have been made, as was the case, for example, with the front page of the Ekstrabladet. Nowadays it is strictly much worse, for pictures and videos are shared at the speed of lightning and in huge amounts on the web, and the web never forgets. The risk of abuse of too much. Let the police do their job... that gives you real security.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409202519	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. I don't know if it's gonna be any easier or harder for Mr. Knox. Peter Kofod, when SF agrees with the Liberal Alliance, but now Mr. Peter Kofod at least the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409202528	Thank you for the floor, President. This is a new situation that was difficult to predict. Who would have thought that there would be so much bread in the Assembly Hall such a night as tonight! It is wonderful, and I am pleased, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, that we have been able to help bring the Danes closer together, helping to gather the Danes. That's great. We'd be happy to take that on. But I would like to start by signing for the many good and also humorous speeches. I think it has been a good debate we have had. Once we have taken up this matter again, it is because we have been confronted with a series of both unreasonable and deeply unhappy cases in which people who have taken great financial responsibility and had a business have been subjected to plundering. They have remained powerless and felt abandoned because there has been no help or at least they have not felt that there has been any help from the authorities and where this has been the last opportunity. They are, of course, strongly provoked by the fact that, after all this has happened, it is then those who go into a gaping stick. They are the ones who feel they are being punished for having really taken care of their things and taking care of their business. I think it must be deeply frustrating if you are a small businessman who has a small business and is exposed to this. You might sell some very expensive stuff, and then you're completely powerless. It's part of history that it's very difficult for some of these industries to insure their things if it's all about stealing. That is to say, it is a question of financing it through the fund; it is something you finance yourself. There is a problem here that could at least be looked at. I believe that the existing rules contribute more to punishing honest and decent people than they help to bring justice to those who have been subjected to a crime. That's a problem. What we have proposed here with the proposal is a very cautious, conservative model, given that we have limited the opportunity in the proposal so that it will not just be possible to use it in all kinds of cases. We have isolated it into a 'cautious' scheme, where you start in small, and then we get smarter, so that we will gradually be able to expand the scheme. It goes without saying that if we were to implement this model, it would require that if we had to put out a picture, in faith and in laws, we should declare that it was related to a crime committed, so that it would not just suddenly become the wild West, or rather, it is already the wild West. When there are rapporteurs asking what it could not bring about, I think it is part of the explanation that to this day it will not take very many seconds or minutes to go into a social media and see that it is rolling around with these kinds of pictures. We've dropped control completely. Well, our authorities have lost control in this area. The Wild West is what meets us on social media. This is what you already do. You just risk a punishment for doing so. You can think about that. I would also like to thank Mr Seligman. Finn Sørensen, who really gave them a lot of fun sometimes in the field of employment, has a very colourful speech. I appreciate that very much. This was particularly the comparison with the methods of punishment from the Middle Ages, which I found interesting. And thank you to Mrs Christina Egelund for the gas station speech. But perhaps I think that the best speech in this debate came from Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen from the Left, because in today's debate the Left made a new proposal for a solution to this problem by saying that it might be possible to imagine that more pressure was being put on to ensure that the police dealt with these reviews very, very quickly. I do not think that is uninteresting, because it can be said that if people could have a very, very quick procedure with the police and get these pictures out and use them, there would also be some shopkeepers, or traders, it would be primarily that would not be in the situation they are facing today, where they feel forgotten and powerless. They wanted clarification within 24 hours. It could be a compromise. That is why I hope that, when this resolution is being discussed in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, we can discuss the proposals made by the Left on how to moderate it here, so that perhaps there could be a majority in favour of us taking a new step in the right direction. This would also mean, of course, that the Minister of Justice would have to count on what it might cost to process these reviews very quickly. All in all, thank you for the debate and comments. I'm sure we're going to discuss this more. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409203025	You're welcome, sir. Peter Kofod. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409203046	The debate is open and the first to speak is our Minister for Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409203112	Thank you. The alternative has tabled a motion for a resolution requiring the government to roll back the amendment of the law to tighten up the penalties for insecurity-building begging. This is justified by the fact that the proposers do not believe that homeless and vulnerable citizens should be punished for acts that are due to their social problems. Basically, the proposers do not believe that social problems can be combated by punishment and criminalisation. I fully agree with the proposers that, of course, social problems can not only be solved by punishment and criminalisation, but I also believe that it would have been irresponsible if we had not dealt with the major problem of insecurity-building begging back in 2017. Therefore, in June 2017, a broad majority of the Folketing tightened the penalties for insecure begging to ensure the safety of citizens on pedestrian streets, stations, supermarkets and public transport. When we look at the situation today, it can be said that the punishments have worked. Today, citizens experience much less insecurity-building begging in their daily lives than before the punishments came into force in June 2017. According to the Copenhagen Police Department, the punishment has had a clear effect. From 2017 to 2018, there has been a gross decrease in both the number of alerts and charges for begging and charges for insecure begging. In addition, the Attorney General has stated that 70 people have been sentenced to unconditional prison sentences since the punishment was introduced in June 2017 and until the end of February of this year. The positive trend seems to continue, although there is still insecurity-building begging, for example. in the S-traines in the Copenhagen area. It is therefore also my clear assessment that lifting the penalty would have a negative effect on the developments we are experiencing at the moment. I therefore believe that it can be said that the punishment has had a clear effect. The positive developments are not something the government wants to put at risk, and the government cannot therefore support the resolution. The police and the judicial system must continue to be able to tackle insecurity-building begging if the problem is to grow again. That is necessary, and it is reasonable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409203339	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409203344	Thank you. And thank you for your speech. The purpose of the amendment was to combat insecure begging, defined as begging in those places, while the background was apparently to scare foreign homeless people from going to Denmark and begging. It has since become apparent that ordinary homeless people who beg without creating insecurity are also affected by legislation. What does the Minister say about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409203408	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409203408-2	There are just zero Danes who have been convicted of insecure begging. There are 70, no, 68 EU citizens who are 1 from third countries and 1 whose nationality is unknown. So they are the ones who have been sentenced to prison in these cases. So I don't agree with that. I also think the questioner can remember what Copenhagen looked like in the summer of 2017, when we made this legislation. After all, TV shows about church servants at a church that had to have vaccination against hepatitis B. Traveling beggars who were nurtured by such very professional begging, I would like to say, came here. Stool was on the street, you were in camps. We took action against this, and the law applies to everyone, regardless of nationality. That is why, of course, I am sorry if we are also going to hit the Danish homeless. But the law is equal for everyone. But so far, no Danes have been convicted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409203524	The red lamp flashes for the minister. That means that time has passed long ago. The Minister of Justice Sorry). The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409203527	Thank you. The fact that no Danes have been arrested does not mean in any way whatsoever that this does not prevent Danish homeless people, of whom I have spoken to many, from getting food in their mouths. After all, this legislation affects Danish homeless people. They may not be arrested, but they are, of course, included in the same legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409203557	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409203557-2	Well, I think we should do something for the homeless, too. We can't punish ourselves for this. Now that the Folketing has made among other things. a homeless strategy • 150 million. kr.; I think the government was much higher, but then you couldn't get through with it, so I also feel that I guess there are some municipalities who have to take on a commitment and help these homeless people get a bed to sleep in. For homeless people in this country, they need a bed to sleep instead of being homeless. But then you had to make an effort there instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409203631	Thank you very much, Minister, for your efforts. Now we move on to the rapporteurs, and the first is Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409203647	The aim of the law against insecure begging was to contain foreign visitors who camped in public places and who were particularly nurtured by begging. And when we look at the latest figures from the Ministry of Justice, we see that the law has worked as intended. We can also see that there have been many fewer reports to the police about insecurity-building camps in 2018, than there were in 2017. That's a good thing. We have, among other things. experienced at Amager Fælled and Islands Brygge in Copenhagen. It has created a great deal of insecurity, and we believe it is crucial that we as citizens can walk safely in public spaces, and it challenges us when visitors make it a way of living to come to Denmark and establish camps in the middle of the street and feed themselves by begging. The punishment for begging must therefore be seen as a tool against those who establish themselves in camps and who give rise to noise, unrest and unsanitary and unhummy sanitary conditions. As the Minister for Justice said, I also find it very difficult to defend that in this case church staff are to be vaccinated against hepatitis because they have to clean up after overnight visitors. It has therefore been necessary to provide the police with a number of tools to combat the behaviour that creates insecurity in the streets and in parks. Against this background, the Social Democratic Party cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409203804	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409203807	Perhaps the question is how big a problem this is. In 2018, the Council for Social Vulnerable presented a study carried out in 2017, which had examined the Danes' attitude towards socially vulnerable people. The study, which was carried out together with Opinion, asked 1.879 representatively selected Danes about their attitudes both to socially vulnerable people in general and to different groups of vulnerable people. What they said was that two thirds of Danes become saddened by society's inadequate help when they see a homeless person on the street, one in three feel guilty in the same situation, while just 14 percent. They get insecure when they see a homeless person on the street or in a public place. Is it not to shoot gray sparrows with cannons when, for that reason, you prevent so many Danish homeless people from getting bread on the table?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409203850	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409203851	This is about insecurity-building camps. I don't think most Danes feel insecure about seeing one or two homeless people. I think that the rapporteur will also come to Copenhagen, and the rapporteur must admit that there have been problems in both the bridge neighbourhoods, Islands Brygge and elsewhere with larger camps with homeless people primarily from Romania. Of course, they create some insecurity for both those who live there and those who come in the areas. I do not think it should be neglected, whether it is 14 per cent. Or 10% that has that feeling.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409203920	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409203921	Then I shall make it clear what we are talking about. I mean, this resolution is about rolling back the tightening of the penalty for begging. This is the next resolution on the lifting of the zone ban. So now we know we need to talk about the same thing. What is the rapporteur's view that it is contrary to the UN guiding principles of extreme poverty and human rights to take life-sustaining actions from homeless people in public spaces, such as sleeping, begging and eating, so that the UN advises us not to take the opportunity to beg from our citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409204005	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409204008	It's the same thing we're talking about. We're talking about tightening the penalty for begging. It is precisely because we do not want people going to Denmark to beg. This is a big industry. And I have to say that the alternative's concern for the homeless may be a little difficult to understand, since they had the opportunity to take the mayor's post in Copenhagen in the social field, but chose something else. So I don't know how much priority it is. As the Minister for Justice has said, not a single Danish homeless person has been convicted of this. So this is another talk about a social problem, primarily in Eastern Europe, which must, of course, be resolved.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409204035	Thank you, sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen. And welcome to Mr. Peter Kofod from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409204048	Thank you. When we tightened up this area in 2017, we did it because there was a real need because we were confronted with real-world stories about people who were worried and insecure. It had nothing to do with Danish homeless people, because Danish homeless people have a very great willingness from all the parties of the Danish Parliament and, I think, from a very, very large majority of the Danish population to help and to do something good for. But we were insecure about beggars who had come here from other countries in Europe, beggars who had nothing to do here, but who should instead go home and get help in their own country. And that is why this tightening of the rules of insecurity-building begging was introduced. I would like to stress that there was no ban on begging. Begging had been banned for many, many years in Denmark, and when I read the motion for a resolution here, I could be in doubt whether it was also the ban that will be dealt with, i.e. the old general ban, or whether it is only the sharpenings we made back in 2017. But it may be that the proposers can explain it when we get there. I would like to say straight away that we discriminated. I would very much like us to say: Danish homeless people need help in Denmark; foreign gypsies who come here must be sent home to their own country. It would have been the most appropriate and best way to solve this, namely to help our own people and that all sorts of others should go home where they come from and get the help of the respective nation state where they now live. The Danish People's Party cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409204236	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409204240	Well, that is honest talk, and unlike the Socialist rapporteur, it is also the right resolution that is being commented on here. What does the rapporteur think about this amendment of the law having such a negative effect on the Danish homeless as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409204258	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409204259	I would like us to be better at helping Danish homeless people in Denmark, and I think it is amazing that in 2019 there can be Danes living on the street. I think that is actually too bad, and we should be better able to deal with that in Denmark. As I understand the problem, it is primarily something that relates to the largest cities, and I have to say that I actually think the alternative could have done something about this. This is very much something we see in Copenhagen, and it is therefore a fact that the alternative, since you could choose mayor's post, chose to become mayor of creative art and unfoldment and everything else. But we could have chosen the social area and made a real difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409204340	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409204341	Yes, and others think we should have chosen the area of employment, and others think we should have chosen the school area again. I guess it's a little hard to make everyone happy. What is the rapporteur's view of the fact that the Danes hardly care or become afraid when they pass by a begging homeless? It's 14 per cent who has that problem. Isn't it completely overkill to start legislating in this way in relation to such a small problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409204404	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409204405	Now I don't know that investigation. I don't really get insecure or worried when I walk past a Danish homeless, I don't. But I do not think it is right for people to come here who have no relation to Denmark, but alone are here because it is more convenient. I think that is simply a problem. And I think it is a problem that, in the times we are in, we cannot treat the citizens of the Danish state differently than we have to treat everyone else who just comes here. Well, I really think that's a problem. We voted in favour of these rules in 2017 with completely open eyes, although we had had another wish. But it was simply a question of curbing the problem here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409204449	Thank you, sir. Peter Kofod for today's speech, and welcome to Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409204502	Thank you. I should like to begin by saying that I am also speaking on behalf of Mr Seligman. Naser Khader. For smaller parties, it can be difficult to be anywhere at once. First of all, let us state what kind of proposal we are talking about, because I think that we were at a time of insecurity-building camps and the like. I must admit that these proposals are very similar, and that is at least the same circle, one might say. This is a proposal to roll back the legislative amendment to tighten up the penalty for begging. It is the case that, as is stated in section 197 of the Criminal Code, betting is illegal if you continue after receiving a warning. It will be possible to discuss for a long time what betleri is, but I shall spare the Danish Parliament to do so here. But as a starting point, if you have received a warning first, it is illegal. That is what we changed in 2017 when we said that in selected places, in pedestrian streets, in stations, in supermarkets and in means of transport, yes, there is no need to get this warning, it is simply illegal, and it involved 14 days in prison just like that. It is, of course, a quite, quite harsh punishment, but let me return to the situation in 2017. These proposals are, of course, very easy because we can re-use the speeches of previous speakers to a large extent. It hasn't been long since we dealt with it lately. The Left rapporteur, Marcus Knuth, said at the time, and it was in 2017: "I remember a lot of mornings back in the summer of last year, when during the week I passed Trinitatis Church here in Copenhagen on my way to work. At the church a large crowd had camped, and everywhere it flowed with bottles and garbage. It was one of the groups of foreigners who had settled in what some popularly called a Roma camp. Shortly thereafter, I read in Berlingske how some of these groups used church areas and our parks as toilets, while they acquired themselves by organized begging, crime and bottle collection. ▪ Now I was about to make myself guilty of what I had criticised others for, namely to mix the two proposals together, but what I want to emphasise is that Marcus Knuth referred to the fact that in 2017 there was a great deal of begging here in Copenhagen. And, as I said, a tightening-up of the provision of section 197 of the Criminal Code was adopted, a tightening-up which said that begging on pedestrian streets, in stations, in supermarkets and in public transport was immediately punishable by 14 days in prison, even if no warning had been given. And then it has to be said that when you look at the situation, as the Minister for Justice has correctly stated, then I have to promise that the proposal has worked. You don't have to go far around Copenhagen to find out. I certainly do not think that there has been any reason to change the proposal we are debating today, namely the question of roll-back of the amendment of the law to tighten up the penalties for begging. We risk ending up in the same situation as we were in before 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409204836	You're welcome. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Torsten Gejl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409204839	What is the rapporteur's view that a large study shows that it is only 14 per cent. by the Danes, who feel that it is inconvenient to be begged?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409204849	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409204850	I heard the question as follows: what is the rapporteur's view that it is only 14 per cent? by the Danes who feel insecurity at begging? I have no comment on that at all. Well, in my optics you shouldn't beg in Denmark, and then I know that the next thing can be that I can easily stand and say that here on the platform. But I believe that we have a social system that is so delicate, at least at the end of the day, that we should pick up on this kind of thing and that there is no need to beg in Denmark. So whatever that study shows, I at least maintain the view that this amendment of the law must be maintained.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409204931	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409204932	Why is it that the rapporteur considers begging in front of a supermarket to be more insecure than, for example, to beg in front of a supermarket? in front of Christiansborg?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409204942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409204944	I must admit to the questioner that this is actually a good question. Nor can I say, with 100% certainty, that the bill was completely combing. Well, maybe supermarkets shouldn't have been there, but now they've come along. Christiansborg is not in, so I can say. Now they have come along, and I just have to say that the law has worked, as I said before, so I see no basis for changing it. But I understand the questioner to that extent, because he is right to wonder about that kind of rubrication.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409205017	Thank you, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen. There are no more brief comments and a warm welcome to Mr. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten, the red-green ones.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409205034	Thank you. Sir. Torsten Gejl's questions were excellent questions, and you could list a number of other places, which are also not covered by this ban, namely a lot of other places where there aren't very many people, unless there are demonstrations down here, because then there are many. But otherwise there won't be many people at Christiansborg Palace Square. And in relation to the way in which this is done, I would say that yes, it is actually justified to talk about the criminalisation of begging. It is true that it was illegal in advance, and thanks to Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen to draw attention to it. That is why it can be said that the tightening that took place was actually superfluous, because it was illegal in the past. And you could turn to beggars, and if they didn't want to move, I guess the police had some options. But precisely on the basis of the question put by Mr Torsten Gejl, it is being put in relief. Because that is actually what has happened, i.e. if you have to be exactly more criminalising begging. But a form of criminalisation that makes it harder for beggars to get a tiny bit of coin to survive on. But I understand that the quota for civil decency has been exhausted for today, and I have to say that the Enhedslisten is in the same place as we were when, together with the alternative, we made a similar proposal. Now the alternative has chosen to put it on its own, but that does not change the fact that we are still going to support it. We think that this was a completely dubious legal treatment, in which within 14 days this legislation was rushed through, on the pretext that suddenly a new and completely unforeseen problem had arisen, as if it were the first summer we had such problems in Denmark. But what is a little interesting is the rhetoric that was about it when the bill was discussed, and that is something that I also just get out between the side legs here. The Minister said when it was presented that he was really sorry that he could not protect Danish homeless people. But he couldn't, because we can't make a law that applies to some and not to others. But that was the pretext, as it is for so many other restrictions and undermining citizens' legal certainty in this country, namely that we blame foreigners and say that we unfortunately have to hit all Danes too, because there are some bad foreigners who do not behave properly in this country. And that is very regrettable, but that is what is shining through. But the Minister then made an interesting addition, and I would like to quote that. He talked about the fact that you can't make a law that applies to some and not to everyone. And then he said: That's why I trust our good people to do it the right way. I wonder what that means. Yeah, I guess it was a hint with a truck pole to the police that they should take and take an interest in the foreign beggars. And I wonder if the figures which the Minister has read out here from the platform support that. And no, I can't prove it, and fortunately we're not in a courtroom where I'm supposed to be able to provide evidence of what's been rumored on the inside of the minister's skull. But it's hard to get a different impression than that it's as I say. Begging is a symptom of poverty, and the criminalisation of begging is purely symptom treatment. I think it was Preben Bang Henriksen who said that or it was the minister himself, I can't remember that, but it was then from the same camp that we should of course do something for those people who have a hard time in society and have no money to live for. And apparently the social safety net is not so fine as to prevent people from having to walk the streets begging or becoming homeless. And that is something that we will return to with the second bill. So from Enhedslisten's side, we have to say that the 2017 amendment is not just a criminalisation of poverty and a criminalisation of begging, understood in that way, but a violent limitation of beggars' ability to collect small coins. There is no doubt that it is. It is also a law that is deliberately, from our point of view, used in a discriminatory way after a hint with a rod from the Minister of Justice. So it cannot go fast enough to get it rolled back and, of course, we support the resolution as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409205513	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mr. Peter Kofod.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409205516	Thank you. Does Enhedslisten believe that there must be a difference between how the Danish state must treat its citizens and how the Danish state must treat all sorts of others who are not invited?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409205528	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409205530	There will be some situations where there is a difference. There are, for example, the following: Some rights with citizenship, for example. to vote for parliamentary elections. That is a right which not everyone who does not have such citizenship can have. So there will of course be some differences. But when it comes to something vital to a society that should be vital to a society, namely, basic legal principles, there should be no difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409205559	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409205601	The rapporteur avoids my question. Because it is not citizenship that we are discussing here. It is not the right to vote or to stand as a candidate for parliament that we are discussing here, but a very specific subject which lies in the motion for a resolution. I just want to hear Enhedslisten: if Enhedslisten now had 90 mandates, there would have been exactly the same treatment, that is, if you could decide everything. Did Danish citizens, who may be homeless, receive exactly the same treatment as all kinds of travelling gypsies from Eastern Europe? So, had the boxes been mixed up in a way that everyone could just get the same help in Denmark? Is that what Enhedslisten's policy is? That is what I want to hear about as one thing. The second point is: Does the Enhedslisten's rapporteur think that for those who sought against Denmark from Eastern Europe it is just about social problems in the form of homelessness, or is it also the expression that there may be some culture involved in it?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409205652	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409205653	The first question cannot be answered without discussing it in concrete terms. And as far as the second question is concerned, I take the view that yes, it is essentially that. There may be exceptions, which may in particular be organised crime, that may well be, for example. organized begging, where beggars are forced to deliver virtually everything they can collect to a backer. And when it can happen at all, the cause is of course social problems in the sense that you have a society in which you do not make sure that weak citizens can get something to live on.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409205738	Thank you, sir. Finn Sørensen, there are no more brief remarks. And a warm welcome to Mrs Christina Egelund of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409205748	Thank you very much. I simply cannot help but begin my speech by commenting on the rapporteur's speech by the previous speaker, because in the last two speeches the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten spoke of decency, civil decency for the first time, I think, in a positive connotation, the second time in a negative connotation. Then I just have to say that I think it is indecently gross to suggest that the Minister of Justice should somehow have urged the police to enforce this law in a discriminatory way. I know that the Ministry of Justice has had discussions with the National Police just to make sure that this law is enforced in a non-discriminatory way, of course on the basis of the absolutely fundamental principle of law, that the law is equal for everyone, that everyone is equal before the law, that the penal code applies to everyone, regardless of nationality. In fact, I think Enhedslisten's rapporteur owes the Minister for Justice an apology for this. Having said that, this is a subject that we have really discussed very much and very thoroughly. We have that both here in Parliament, and we have it in the media, and so we have seen for good reason, because there is something I think we should be honest about. But I also think there are many misunderstandings in the debate, because the authors of this motion for a resolution say that the begging law will be rolled back. They say that you want to decriminalise begging, and that is a fair point of view. It is a fair and legitimate political view that that is what you want. That's just not what you're suggesting. What is being proposed is to eliminate the sharpening of the penalties for betting, as it says, which was introduced in the summer of 2017. I mean, it's proposed to remove a penalty. It is not proposed to decriminalize begging. I just think you have to be honest about it too, that is to say, that is what you are proposing. It is not proposed to decriminalize begging. That is not what the motion for a resolution says. You could suggest that, if that's what you mean. But then you have to do it and be honest about what you actually present to the Folketing. The punishment that we are discussing, and which is proposed to be rolled back, was introduced in the summer of 2017. I think we can all remember under what circumstances it was. I said then, and I still think this is not without dilemmas. I still believe it is not, and that is why we were also anxious to insert a sunset clause at the time, that is to say a penalty clause. This means that it expires on 1 July 2020, i.e. in just about a year's time, and at that time it will be natural to review the penalty and see if it has worked as intended. There is much to suggest it has, with the statements we have from the Ministry of Justice, but let's take it at that time when we have set a completely natural expiry date for this change of law. The Liberal Alliance is against the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409210105	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409210108	Well, this resolution is about the roll-back of the legislative amendment to tighten up the penalty for begging, and if it has been unclear, I would like to regret it. What is the rapporteur's view of begging in front of a supermarket and a station, but not in front of Christiansborg?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409210131	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409210133	That was the distinction made when the penalty was introduced. Well, begging, begging, begging is illegal, no matter where you do it, and it was before you introduced this punishment. At that time we looked at where there had been problems with camps, i.e. with beggars who settle in camps and create insecure situations for citizens. And there it was the places that were written into the bill. Personally I feel that if it is a problem at Christiansborg Palace Square, I would also like to strike down there. But the assessments they had then were that the places where the citizens felt bothered by these camps were the places that were included in the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409210215	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409210217	Now the rapporteur says about the contribution of the previous rapporteur, Mr Seligman. Finn Sørensen, that he implied that I do not know how to say it, but the question was that only foreign homeless people have been arrested. It's 100 percent only foreign homeless. Does the rapporteur think this is a coincidence, because there are also Danes begging all kinds of places?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409210247	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409210248	I have no reason to assume that the police administer or enforce this law in violation of law.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409210300	Thank you to Mrs Christina Egelund. There are no further brief comments, and I would like to welcome Mr. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409210311	After all, the two motions for resolutions, B 92 and B 95, concern the same group of people and some of the challenges they face. That is why my speech will cover both motions for resolutions and I am not taking the floor on motion for a resolution B 95. I understand very well that there was a need for action, as Copenhagen had visits by many foreign beggars with a foul camp, but the answer is not to criminalise a lot of other people who already have enough problems in finding a foothold in Danish society. Everyone has the right to a good life, to a place to live, to places where you can meet others, to feel security and security. Everyone has the right to food, warm clothes and a safe place, if you do not have your own home. Is that too much to ask? No, I guess not. We're not the same, and fortunately for that. A country populated by the clones of parliamentary politicians sounds both boring and frightening at the same time. Life treats us differently. Some people follow the slim road on the sunside of society with villa, Volvo and doggie. Among homeless and beggars there are a lot of doggies, but no villas and Volvos. What brings real value is not necessarily long-term education, high wages and fat pensions. It is not only what can be counted that counts. Humanity, love, caring, solidarity and spaciousness towards others, and also to often crooked existences, you meet more often on the streets, in the bedrooms than in the well-being ghettoes north of Copenhagen. It is the duty of society to give a helping hand to the people who have ended up on the edge. We need to make life easier for the vulnerable, not even harder. Yeah, beggars and homeless people can make noise. They can behave differently and they can challenge our way of seeing life, but they are here and they have the right to be here and we must treat them with dignity and respect. Zone bans and even greater penalties for begging and other laws may move something that some cannot stand to look at and therefore want it away from the street picture. Out of sight, out of mind, it seems the title of the law is. But it doesn't move anything for poverty. Beggars and homeless people need a helping hand, not a kick in the back. Stop criminalising beggars.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409210648	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. In formal terms, the President should have intervened, because Mr. Karsten Hønge mixed two points together, but since both the Minister and several rapporteurs confuse these two points, it is probably because the legislation is made in such a way that the areas of the two points are infiltrated in each other. That is why I reject it and, by the way, I understand what Mr. Karsten Hønge meant taking it all at once. The next rapporteur is the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409210721	Thank you. The alternative here proposes to roll back the amendment of the law to tighten up the penalty for begging. We do not understand why begging is particularly insecure in pedestrian streets and stations, whereas one obviously does not feel insecure when begging takes place in front of, for example. Christiansborg. We also see that the proposal is contrary to the UN guiding principles of extreme poverty and human rights, which state that states are called upon to abolish the criminalisation of the life-sustaining acts of homeless people carried out in public spaces, such as sleeping, begging, eating, and activities aimed at personal hygiene. At the same time, the prison sentence for begging is extremely expensive for society. The government itself mentions that it costs 8 million. kr. a year, and I wonder if that money could be used wiser? The law that the Alternative will roll back is a legislative amendment from 2017, a tightening of the penalty for begging in selected places, the so-called beggar law. The purpose of the amendment was to combat insecure begging defined as begging in those places, while the background was apparently to scare foreign homeless people from going to Denmark and begging. Since then, it has been shown that ordinary homeless people begging without creating insecurity are being affected by legislation, contrary to what the parties behind the ban promised in 2017. With the closing debate in 2017, the Prime Minister presented that this was a proposal that should not hit all homeless people who asked for a score, but that the proposal should strike down so-called insecurity-building begging. After that, the Social Democratic Party, with a number of others, indicated their willingness to support the proposal. However, it was soon clear that the proposal hits all homeless people. In the alternative, we did not vote in favour of the proposal then, and now we are trying to roll the law back. It has turned out that the proposal punishes all homeless people, and it is against this background illegal for homeless people to ask for a fiver for a cup of coffee. We do not believe that homeless and vulnerable citizens should be punished for acts that result from the existence of social problems, nor do we believe that social problems should be tackled fundamentally by punishing and criminalising socially vulnerable citizens. The question is also, in fact, how big a problem has been raised here. In 2018, the Council of Social Vulnerables presented a study carried out in 2017 which examined the Danes' attitudes to socially vulnerable people. Overall, the study shows that two out of three Danes in question are saddened by society's inadequate help when they see a homeless person on the street. I mean, two out of three are sad about the help we give to the homeless. Every third feels guilty in the same situation, while just 14 percent. They get insecure when they see a homeless person on the street or in a public place. This legislation satisfies the needs of 14 per cent. by the Danes, and how much other legislation does it do? But that does not mean, of course, that there can be no examples of insecure situations, but it does say a little about the fact that this is not a problem that has been as extensive as it is being run up to. Overall, this proposal is therefore both expensive and contrary to the guiding principles of the United Nations, but above all it is a huge attack on the very poorest people in our society, and we find that in the alternative completely unworthy. What we are talking about is typically harmless acts where a homeless person sticks out the cup or a hand and asks for a score for food, coffee or medicine. No one has been harmed since then, and so, of course, it should not be criminal. It is not harassment, insecurity or threatening behaviour, so it is symbolic politics. And if it should happen that someone cannot behave properly, then of course it must have consequences. We have, among other things. the police to ensure, and this is generally the case with harassment and inappropriate behaviour. In conclusion, I would like to put things a little on the head, because what we are talking about is actually quite simple: whether you think that homeless people who cannot afford food and housing should be allowed to ask for a score or whether you think that such an act should be punished by fines and arrests.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409211122	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409211130	Thank you to the rapporteur. The rapporteur mentions these studies on how many Danes are insecure about homeless people or people with social problems. Now we come from two different parts of the country, but does the rapporteur recognise that there are problems in some places in Copenhagen with insecurity-building behaviour from Eastern Europeans, which creates insecurity for families with children in upwellings and playgrounds, so there is actually a problem in some places?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409211155	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409211156	But when it is examined, and I have just said so in the speech, it turns out that it is there 14 per cent. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409211206	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409211208	Now I don't think one has been made for the Copenhagen district level, because it's very different from the district to the district, but what about the 14 percent?? Let's say it's only 14 percent who feel insecure. It is, of course, as the Minister of Justice also says, especially Eastern Europeans, who have been fined these fines. In other words, does the rapporteur recognise that this is a problem for the people who live in the areas where there are large groups of Eastern Europeans? I know we are discussing this later, but it is also in relation to this sharpening of the penalty for begging to avoid some of these problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409211235	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409211236	Yes, that may be a problem, but I believe that it will be possible to resolve it in other ways. We have, for example. Some rules on migrant workers. There are some conditions to be met. For example: you have to be active job-seekers, you have to be able to support yourself. It is defined that you must have a certain amount of money on you corresponding to the cash benefits rate. Why don't you go that way to restrict this?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409211303	Sir. Peter Kofod.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409211305	Thank you. There's something amazing about the left in these years. On the one hand you havecelerated over the symbol policy, the next moment you roll out the sleeping bag in the Palace Square or jump in a diving suit and swim to Lindholm to fight the symbol policy. I find that interesting. But that's not really what I was gonna go up with, sir. Torsten Gejl. What I would like to ask is: what will the alternative do to prevent large groups of homeless and beggars from Eastern Europe, i.e. typically Gypsies, coming to our country if we cannot do this? Well, if all this we've been doing in recent years is going to be rolled back, what are you gonna do?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409211341	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409211343	So we have some rules on migrant workers. If these are the rules you use to get to Denmark, then there are for example. Some conditions you have to meet. You have to be active job seekers, you have to be able to support yourself, you are defined in terms of whether you have a certain amount of money on you, and if it's foreign homeless, it's all about why you don't use the rules that the EU has actually set some limits for this rather than criminalising poverty. That's what you do here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409211414	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409211417	I think it is an insult to such typical workers who travel from country to country, to define the camps that have been by gypsies from Eastern Europe as potential labour. It is simply to miss the target so much. It is not people who need a job, at least not in Denmark. These are people who have come here with a completely different background. It is not a question of labour. I'm just gonna ask sir. Torsten Gejl: What will the Alternative do? If you roll this back, we're in the same situation as we did back in the summer of 2017. I don't want to relive it. What will the alternative do? Are we just gonna open the borders and say welcome?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409211454	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409211455	The rules I was talking about can actually be used in this situation. And when I talk about symbolism policy, it is precisely when there is a very, very small need in the population that we are trying to solve in a way that is completely out of proportion.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409211510	Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl. There are no more brief comments. Are there any more who wish to speak, rapporteurs as well as ministers? That is not the case, and then the negotiations are concluded. I propose that the motion for a resolution be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409211534	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409211559	Thank you. The motion for a resolution put forward by the Alternative is that the government in this Assembly should take the initiative to abolish the rules on zone bans and, as the proposers put it, stop criminalising the homeless in Denmark. The resolution also calls on the government to step up social efforts to reduce homelessness. I would like to start by making two things very clear. Firstly, citizens throughout Denmark must be able to feel safe, and therefore we cannot and should not accept if people establish themselves and stay in camps that create insecurity in the neighbourhood. Secondly, the rules on zonal bans are not aimed at criminalising the homeless. On the other hand, the rules on zone bans are closely linked to the ban on insecure camps. The rules on insecure camps and zone bans were introduced after Copenhagen in the summers 2016 and 2017 was subjected to a massive influx of homeless people from other countries. It marked the entire city picture and created insecurity. That is the reason for the rules we have today. In the spring of 2017, it was prohibited to establish and reside in camps suitable for creating insecurity in the vicinity, and in spring 2018 it was possible for the police to notify zone bans to an entire municipality to persons who have violated the camp ban. And it's worked. We had a problem, and we solved it. In view of the reports we have received from the police, it has to be said that the rules have been effective. We see far fewer examples of camps in the city picture. I believe that the rules on zone bans have helped to deter people from creating insecurity in Copenhagen. There has subsequently been a lot of debate about the fact that the rules are affecting the homeless. To this I would just like to say that this is not a criminalisation of homelessness, but a criminalisation of camps that create insecurity. With the rules there is a derived effect on the homeless, but it is not by abolishing the rules that we have to solve that problem. Then we would probably be able to look forward to another summer with visiting foreigners and insecure camps in the city picture. The question of making increased efforts for the homeless falls within the remit of the Minister for Children and Social Affairs, but in general I can say that the government has a stated objective that fewer people should live in homelessness. It's just that we're not getting there by abolishing the rules on zone bans. Danish homeless people, on the other hand, have to live in their own homes with the right social effort. This is also why, in 2017, the government launched an action plan to combat homelessness. The betting pool parties supported the sale of 154 million. kr. to the stakes. I would also like to point out that the municipalities also have a responsibility to ensure that the homeless are properly taken care of in each city and that there is enough room in the shelters. So, although I have sympathy for the underlying desire of the proposers to put an end to homelessness, I disagree that this is the right way to do it. With the last case in mind, and now with this one, I would just like to urge that we do not think it is all something we resolve here on the part of Christiansborg. Well, then you have to find the telephone number at City Hall in Copenhagen and call and talk to those who could actually do something for the money they have been given for the task. Because I think we should stand together on this, as we do in several municipalities, where a massive effort is actually being made to do something good for the homeless. But you just can't get around the fact that if we were to roll back this law, we would see what was the background to the law again, just people who came here and made camps throughout the city picture. And I think that is very wrong, and we should not in any way support that. Then I know that there have been some individual cases in the press, and individual cases can always get the debate started, and then the whole debate will be on a single issue. And yes, one case is an expression of the situation of a single person, and it can be really unhappy. But imagine what else we started if we rolled this back. And what we have done has had an effect. We can see that you've been around and had a lot of camps and had them dissolved. There have also been some bans. And once again, the vast majority of people who have been subjected to police presence are mainly EU citizens who have come here. As far as I remember, there are ten Danes who have also experienced this. But so it is, as I said before, that the law is equal to all. Now I can use this opportunity to stress that, of course, we in the Ministry of Justice have stressed to the National Police, as Mrs Christina Egelund also mentioned, that the law is equal for all Danes as foreigners. But much of this is also based on reviews, and in relation to some of the camps it is of course also based on the fact that it is very, very clear that large camps have been set up in different parks in Copenhagen, and there the police have of course done something to clear those camps, and it has been very, very good. So if we really want to do something for the homeless, I think we should ask the municipalities that have got a lot of money for this task to take it seriously and learn from each other rather than just repeal a law that works. And I will not accept having to sit on me or the government, that we do not want to do anything for the homeless or socially vulnerable, because that is not what this is about. This is about us not having hundreds of travellers here from other EU countries running around in the streets begging and making camps and committing crime. We do not want that, and that is why we have made the laws we have and with the efforts that it was possible to make for the individual municipalities. And then, as a municipality, I think we should think about whether we should not let the situation of the homeless get first, instead of the homeless having to fit into the municipal administrations and boxes. Perhaps you should get there instead of saying that it is the government's bill that is wrong with it. That is at least the recommendation from it, and on that basis the government cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409212323	Thank you, Minister. There is a brief comment from Mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409212327	But now it's legislation that we've made from here... the zone ban, it's what it's all about today, which is why the homeless can't be allowed to sleep several times at a time for example. to seek security and security. Now the Minister says that these are just a few simple cases. Well, there have been 30 homeless people who have spent the night here in the Palace Square today. There have been even more visitors. Does the Minister not recognize that it also tells us that this is a huge problem for Danish homeless people?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409212403	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409212404	I recognise that there are certainly Danish homeless people who may feel that they are caught up in legislation here, because the law applies to everyone. But then the question is how to solve it. Is it by saying that we will drop the law that has worked so much? Or is it saying: then must we make a social effort for those who are homeless? I mean the last.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409212431	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409212437	Well, now that the Minister is over in the constructive fashion "solution-oriented" I think I would like to hear the Minister's opinion on a few of the good solutions that I think have been put forward where it might be possible to resolve this in a different way. The homeless's own organization SAND suggests that there may be zones around the cities where you can be more staying overnight at once. And then it might be combined with a suggestion that you could say that four or four people could be allowed to spend the night together. Then we avoid the large camps, and we ensure that the homeless can lie together a few, so that at least there is security and security.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409212520	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409212521	Well, the challenge is, actually, I think so too, sir. Torsten Gejl agrees that we have a principle of equal treatment. So that means that if it is the case for Danish homeless people to have a number together, then it is the case for everyone else who might also come here. It is not the case that there is a different law for Danes and for others. If you did what is proposed here, it would apply to everyone, and what I just don't want to do is open that door so that we get a lot of travelers back here who make camps everywhere in Copenhagen. It is as if in this debate we see both the previous one and probably also, in this one completely forgets what the situation was in in 2017 here in the city.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409212607	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments on him. I would like to welcome Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409212621	In the Social Democratic Party we believe that the absolute focus must be that no Danes should be forced to spend the night on the street. We therefore fully agree with the authors of the motion for a resolution that there must be an increase in social efforts to reduce homelessness. We have a responsibility to ensure that there are sufficient shelters for our homeless. In the Social Democratic Party we have also proposed to allocate funds to existing shelters and accommodations so that they can extend their opening hours so that the most vulnerable have a place to stay 24 hours a day. When we made it illegal to set up insecure camps, it was because we experienced major problems with such camps, especially in Copenhagen. Special visitors settled in the public room in permanent camps and stole the city image. When the police announce that a zone ban in respect of a stay in an insecure camp is a requirement, there is a reason to believe that the person concerned will otherwise repeat the infringement in the area covered by the ban. It is important for me to stress that the ban has not been intended to affect people who have set up a single mattress or sleeping bag, and it is also written into the law. This means that people who are in a group and who have simply put up a mattress or sleeping bag for the night should not be affected by the ban on zones. The sole purpose is to strike insecure camps. Following the introduction of the ban on insecurity-building camps, we can see that there has been a decrease in the number of reports of insecurity-building camps and charges. So: It is not criminal to be homeless, and Danish homeless people should not be punished for being homeless. They need a place to sleep, and they need help to get out of homelessness. It's a social task. If the Social Democratic Party cannot support the proposal today, it is because we can see that the law has helped to stem insecurity-building camps, which have been set up in particular by travellers. At the same time, however, it is absolutely crucial that the social effort is increased so that no Danish homeless person is forced to spend the night on the street.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409212820	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409212822	Thank you. The rapporteur says that Danish homeless people should not be affected by this zone ban if they are a few who want to sleep together, as I understood the rapporteur. But the reason why there are 30 homeless people who have spent the night at the Palace Square in a secure camp is precisely because they are being hit because they are demonstrating against being hit. So what does the rapporteur think? I mean, how are we gonna stop them from getting hit and at the same time keep this law?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409212856	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409212858	For us, it is not about symbol politics in this way. It is about the creation of a proper social effort so that there is no homeless at all. But what is probably the difference between us and the alternative is that I do not feel that the rapporteur for the alternative recognises that there is a problem with Eastern Europeans coming up here and setting up camps. We've seen lots of places in Copenhagen. We have seen a decline in it from 2017 to 2018, despite the fact that 2018 was one of the hottest summers ever and it is usually during the period when there is a big problem with Roma from Eastern Europe that establish camps. This means that it has had some effect, and therefore it is two different issues, but the goal is absolutely not to hit the Danish homeless. The goal is for Danish homeless people to be brought out of their homelessness.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409212942	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409212944	Danish homeless people are being hit, otherwise they wouldn't have been at the Palace Square yesterday. What is the rapporteur's view of the idea from the SAND that some zones may be created, for example: in Copenhagen, where it is allowed to be a little more, and it might be 3-4 pieces, so that we avoid these large camps, but we might give Danish homeless people an opportunity to take care of each other while they sleep and help each other if problems arise.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409213015	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409213017	Firstly, I do not think that the rapporteur can fully respect the homeless who have been in the Palace Square, but not necessarily all homeless people feel the same way. There are various reasons why you end up in homelessness. So I think it's hard to talk about them as a single group. We would like to look at a number of options, but it should not be the case that different public places in Copenhagen should be the home of the homeless in Eastern Europe, and that is the insecurity factor. It is not four Danish homeless people who sleep in sleeping bags, and the questioner knows that very well.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409213048	To Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, and welcome to Mr. Peter Kofod, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409213056	Thank you. It is, of course, the second proposal we are debating today on the same subject, and I must say that the speech made by the Minister for Justice may well have been made. I was very much in agreement with that. The proposal here is based on a specific case where a zone ban has been issued, and I would say that I do not believe that any Danes should sleep on the street. I mean, people need a home. There should be no homelessness in a country as rich as Denmark, and that is my clear starting point. I could make the same speech as I did when we dealt with the last resolution, because it is close to each other, but I think that instead of discussing what can be done to create special zones where Danish homeless people can sleep, it would be preferable to discuss how to get Danish homeless people out of homelessness. It seems to me that it is a declaration of failure if you say that we must live with it, that it is just lost, because that is not the way I think it should be. I think that Danish homeless people should have a home, and we should have sent migrant homeless people back to where they might come from. In many cases, in the case of these Roma camps, Romania has been seen around. That must be the clear starting point. So it is not always about social problems. If you travel to Eastern Europe, you will see that there is also a great deal of culture in this. It's just in some areas. Then we can talk about social problems, and I would venture to say that this is also very much about culture, especially in some Gypsy environments. But the starting point here is that the Danish People's Party cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409213247	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409213250	Thanks for the speech. I agree that there should be no homelessness. I fully agree with the rapporteur on that, but although the rapporteur and I agree on it, there is homelessness and it will not disappear tomorrow. At the moment, we are placing a great deal of money in the homeless effort. I believe that 1 billion has soon been posted. kr. in Housing First. And as we do, homelessness increases. So it would be gratifying if it went the other way, but it doesn't. I would like to hear what the rapporteur has in mind in order to ensure that we get rid of this problem and whether the rapporteur's party is perhaps prepared to set aside additional money for it, as well as to feel a little wiser than we already do.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409213336	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409213337	I believe that our position in the social field is well known. That's one thing. The second thing is that one could also consider shaking up in the City of Copenhagen and saying that they must now take their place. Well, now there are some people who need to wake up. I simply cannot understand why, in the country's largest municipality, we have these problems with a buzzing cash box. There is even a massive red majority in the City of Copenhagen that could address these problems. Well, if the Left really cares so much about this, then I don't understand why you don't start by solving it where you have 80%. of the votes.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409213414	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409213420	Well, the rapporteur has to ask the left if the alternative is green. I agree with the rapporteur that the Danish People's Party is a party with a strong social policy, so I also hope that we can talk about constructive proposals. I would just like to hear the rapporteur's comment on this idea: if, for example, this is the case. In Copenhagen, in certain places where it doesn't bother so much, smaller groups of homeless people - for example. 2 or 3 people could sleep together to create security, could the rapporteur perhaps imagine that it could solve the problem for the Danish homeless without us having large groups of foreign homeless visitors?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409213510	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409213511	I think it will be difficult to separate it, because the problem would be that if this were introduced this summer, it would take two days, and then you would have heard this rumor in Romania that now there were some zones where you could be allowed to be, so I do not think it can be solved that way. The Danish homeless are not solved, I am afraid, and we are also creating a problem which we have dealt with in one way or another with the rules we have adopted in recent years. So I don't believe it's a solution. I would very much like to discuss what we can do, and I would also very much like to discuss what we can do about social policy. I know that our social rapporteur would also very much like to make himself available to it so it is not a rejection of the problem of homelessness, because we recognise it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409213556	Thank you, sir. Peter Kofod. There are no more brief remarks, and I will leave one of the country's most distinguished speaking chairs to Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen from the Left • Denmark's Liberal Party. It's five minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409213608	Thank you. That's a commitment. I should like to begin by saying that I am also speaking on behalf of Mr Seligman. Naser Khader of the Conservative People's Party. In 2017, it was prohibited to establish itself and stay in insecure camps. I think most people remember why. It was a Copenhagen that neither of us liked to look at, at least in the inner city, and I think that the example of Trinitati's Church is clear to everyone. The employees here, church servants, etc., could begin this morning picking up feces in and around the church, and they had to be hepatitis vaccinated at all. It didn't belong anywhere, and it was forbidden to create these camps where you spent the night here in the inner city. The following year, in 2018, it became possible to impose a zone ban. This meant that those concerned could have a ban on being in the municipality for two years and thus had to be spread to other municipalities, while the penalty was tightened up if you were part of an insecure camp. It was all a change to what is called the Order of Conduct. The proposal today is therefore aimed at abolishing the zoning ban and halting the criminalisation of the homeless. If we take the latter first, I would say that it is relatively easy to do, that is to say stop the criminalisation of homeless people, because it is not criminal today to be homeless. So it's done. To the first part of the proposal to abolish the zone ban, I have to say just as the Minister for Justice said: we had a problem and we solved it. In fact, it cannot be said more clearly. In the hot summer of 2018, we did not see the corresponding problems after that legislation was adopted. I would add that I agree 100% with what the Minister of Justice said in his actually very comprehensive examination of the problem, and I must therefore say that the Left cannot support the proposal to abolish the zone ban and stop the criminalisation of the homeless.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409213837	Thank you, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen, who only spent half his speaking time. There is a brief comment that can compensate for that, Mr President. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409213847	Thank you. Well, we have a problem. I can hear that the rapporteur does not want to roll this law back, but we have a problem, and that is that Danish homeless people are experiencing major problems when they spend the night on the street if they are going to spend the night alone. It is insecure that they are subjected to violence, and some are raped. It is so insecure that they have even come here to demonstrate right in front of our Parliament. Does the rapporteur not have anything to say to them other than that nothing is happening?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409213923	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409213924	Yes, I have to say that we are living in a society where, fortunately, the weak are being dealt with, and that also applies to the homeless. We have shelters to which we can move and be safe at without risk for one thing or another, as the questioner mentioned. But I have to admit that the effort could be better. I just have to say quite frankly, as was also said by the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, that this is a particular problem in Copenhagen, and I certainly cannot understand at all that the City of Copenhagen has not got anything done about it, just as the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party put it. In this connection, I would remind you that 154 million were set aside. kr., I think it was, in connection with the rate pool here last year to make a thorough social effort in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409214020	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409214021	While we are placing more and more millions, the number of homeless people is increasing, and there are not enough shelters, and some of those who are homeless are unable to sleep in a shelter. It may be because of anxiety, it may be because they feel insecure. What is the rapporteur going to say to them, apart from the fact that the rapporteur will not withdraw the zone ban?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409214049	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409214050	I can therefore say nothing more than that when we set up shelters and, by the way, take social action, we can hardly do more in this area. I guess we can't take into account people who say they can't stand sleeping with a roof over their heads. In this situation, at least you can't complain that you don't have a roof over your head.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409214111	Thank you, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen, and warm welcome to Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten, the red-green ones.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409214124	Thank you. First of all, I regret to the previous rapporteur that I came to call him Mikkelsen at an earlier time, but now the excuse is certainly given, Mr President. Henriksen. Well, then, sir, I'd like to say hello. Karsten Hønge and say that SF supports the proposal, possibly in a slightly different way and in some other words than I do. But they certainly do. A year ago, when we dealt with the recent tightening up of the so-called zone ban on homeless people staying outdoors, the reason for the bill was that the government would take action against foreign visitors camping in public places. Since then, we have seen the result of stricter legislation. Among other things: last September, we have seen a man convicted of sleeping in a so-called camp, even though he was all alone in it. A camp can therefore be made up of a single person, at least according to this legislation, which must be said to be a very far-reaching interpretation of the concept of camp. Later in the media we read about the Pearl House Forbi salesman, André, who was fined and banned in the entire City of Copenhagen to spend the night with a few other homeless people at the Round Tower. And in November we received a very informative note from the Church's Cross Army that could tell that the number of foreign homeless has not decreased significantly since the introduction of the new rules. In the Enhedslisten, we knew that zone bans and stricter penalties for begging or outdoor accommodation have nothing to do with increasing security or combating poverty. It is only the fight against symptoms, and if it increases something, it is not the security, but the insecurity, the insecurity of the homeless, who feel pressured to spend the night alone rather than others, because they hope it will give them better chances of avoiding punishment. The poverty underlying homelessness cannot, by its very nature, be abolished by means of fines and zonal bans, and if there are some citizens in this country who think it is more secure that the homeless are now forced to hide, it is a false security, because neither homelessness nor poverty have disappeared. It's just become something more invisible. The poor and the homeless have just become even more desperate and vulnerable. On the Danish side, in Denmark, we cannot solve the poverty problems in the EU's south-eastern corner, but we can create reasonable accommodation for the foreign homeless who come here. A little in contrast to the Socialist rapporteur who said that Danish homeless people should not sleep on the streets, we see in the Enhedslisten that we do not think that foreign people should do so either. If we are to avoid this, we must ensure that there is plenty of accommodation available, and I would just like to say to the previous rapporteur that what I hear from the municipalities and from the interest groups trying to help the homeless is that capacity is not sufficient. We can also combine the accommodation that is available and that we should create further as soon as possible, with targeted advice, so that the foreign homeless quickly get a realistic picture of their ability to create a tolerable life in Denmark, which is of course very limited. You have to tell them that honestly, because Denmark is not a country where it just floats with milk and honey in the streets, if it is the case that someone has kind of given them the impression of it. And we can also give them any help to go home. That is what we call transit spaces, that is, a thought for which Enhedslisten has been fighting for many, many years and which you can well find out how to use in other countries in our neighbouring countries. On the whole, it seems that we can learn a great deal from our neighbouring countries, because there came I think it was last year that a study of what it looks like in the Nordic countries in relation to tackling homelessness, and Denmark was absolutely at the bottom of doing so. We are the country where homelessness has increased most, especially among young people, and I wonder if it should also have a connection with the policy of the present majority of the people, and indeed of the past of low youth benefits, in relation to what young people get to live on. So the Enhedslisten can absolutely support the alternative's motion for a resolution to abolish this zone ban. It can't be fast enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409214608	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Lars Aslan Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409214615	After all, it is Enhedslisten who has been in the Social Mayor's Office in Copenhagen, at least for eight years, as I remember, with this responsibility. Having said that, the rapporteur says that social democracy makes a distinction between Danish homeless and foreign homeless. We do, but I suppose Enhedslisten does. I guess some of the discrimination against Roma and such people is something that needs to be resolved in Eastern Europe. I guess those countries are supposed to take care of those of their own citizens who are having a hard time. I guess that's not Denmark's problem, that's in the long term. I understand that some of them are here, but the Enhedslisten must also recognise that there is something wrong in coming up here and setting up camps when you come from Eastern Europe. That is a failure on the part of those countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409214654	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409214656	I fully agree with that, but that is the problem we cannot solve. But that does not prevent us from treating people decently when they come here. I was merely referring to a wording used by the Socialist rapporteur that Danish homeless people should not sleep on the streets. However, if we can agree that it should not be foreign, then we should also be able to agree that all municipalities should have the opportunity to provide proper accommodation for the homeless who are so that they are not exposed to the dangers and risks that can now be sleeping on the street, namely to be attacked by people who have a place of residence, I have to say that in this way I have to take a completely different view of vulnerable citizens than we have. This is something we also hear from homeless people, i.e. they are increasingly subjected to attacks and robberies and violent attacks by those who go out at night.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409214751	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409214753	I just want to thank the rapporteur for raising this. That's a big problem. We have experienced this, including homeless people, who have been thrown into the canal and such things and many other scary examples. But does the rapporteur recognise that there is insecurity-building behaviour on the part of some of these people from Eastern Europe in some of the Copenhagen neighborhoods, where residents also react? Because it creates some insecurity, and I just think that you should take it seriously regardless of whether the Alternative believes that it is only 14 per cent that feel insecure • that there is also a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409214820	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409214820-2	I have not personally had that in mind, but I do not want to dispute that it is happening, and of course one has to tackle it. But do we tackle it by criminalising the way you do this? I certainly don't think so. Maybe you can make everything look a little nicer, but that doesn't solve the problem. So it needs to be tackled. If it is very annoying and threatening behaviour, yes, then we have a police force that can be called upon to deal with it. Otherwise, we will have to do what everyone is talking about here, namely get the social effort going. But then it is a different policy in relation to the economy of the municipalities that needs to be addressed than that of the majority in this House.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409214902	Thank you, sir. Finn Sørensen. And welcome to Mrs Christina Egelund of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409214914	Thank you very much. However, if you could just make sure that no one lives on the streets of Denmark with a snap and a quick or slow change of law, it would be nice, but unfortunately the world is not that simple. Honestly, with regard to the bill we are discussing here, I fully acknowledge that peaceful homeless people, who just crawl together and seek shelter from the night, are accidentally struck by it. There have been examples of this, and I just think we should be honest about it, that is to say that it has been the case. But it is not the law of zoning that creates homelessness. It is not that I recognise that it affects the homeless in a way that was not intended. It's just to get it straight. That is why it is not the case that the removal of the zone ban will eliminate homelessness. The Zone Ban was introduced in a situation where, as many others have said before me, we had a situation of camps of beggars and homeless people that created insecurity. This is what is being done to get rid of it, and it hits so unintentionally. This is a dilemma, and it is a political dilemma, because, on the one hand, we do not want it to happen unintentionally, but, on the other hand, we also have a responsibility to create security for the citizens and to do something about the camps that arose at the time. Sometimes politics is not simple, but actually difficult, and I actually think it is here. I think that we in the Danish Parliament broadly agree on this, at least in the debate it sounds like that efforts in relation to the homeless could be better in many places, and I think this has to do with many different policy areas and interventions in many places. The whole thing about repeating what others have also said, as the City of Copenhagen does, where they say that you have to spend some more money on homeless interventions and things like that. Yes, yes, the City of Copenhagen has a lot of money, so if you really took that problem seriously and took it on board and wanted to solve it in the City of Copenhagen, then I think you could actually go a great deal further than what you have done so far. As is the case with the draft law that we dealt with before this, that is to say, the one about punishment for begging, there is also a sunset clause in this zoning bill, which means that, unless Parliament decides otherwise, the law will expire per year. 1 March 2021, i.e. In a little less than two years. And by then I think it's a good idea to take it up in its entirety, including this that it hits unintentionally... I think it's actually gonna be a good idea for all of us to admit it does and see if you can solve it in another way. So far, however, I just think it has to be said that it has solved a very specific problem that we faced, and if you want to remove the law at that time, you also owe it to us to give some answers on how to look at another, and perhaps better, way to solve the problem of camps. Sometimes politics is full of nuances and dilemmas, and I think that is actually the case here. But we cannot support this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409215246	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409215250	I agree entirely with the rapporteur that homelessness is not due to the zoning ban. There are many reasons for homelessness: a ceiling on cash benefits, a lack of housing, everything. However, the rapporteur also honestly acknowledges that there is a problem with Danish homeless people not being allowed to sleep together and create security. So, rapporteur, what are we going to do about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20190409215321	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409215321-2	Sometimes there's just no easy answer. I think we should be honest about that too, because the problem is that if we simply remove the zone ban, as the author suggests, we will have another problem. We will then have the problem that we have sought to resolve with the ban on zones. And can you prioritize and choose between problems? Yes, that is sometimes the task we have in the Folketing when you are in charge of society. I would like to see the problem solved with the camps that we had left in the summers 2016 and 2017 and in the spring of 2017 in a way that does not unintentionally affect the peaceable homeless, who are actually just looking for a place to spend the night together and in the security that you have in the community. I'd love to. I haven't been able to crack that code, but if the questioner has a good offer, I'm definitely open to good ideas.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409215424	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409215425	Well then, I will try the good commandments proposed by the homeless themselves and, as I also asked other rapporteurs, in other words, that you could have free zones in the cities. Now it is not only Copenhagen that is affected by homelessness, in Aarhus the number increases much more. But then, you could have some zones in the cities and then say that it was allowed to be there for small groups. One of the problems that has been addressed is that there have been large groups of people, for example. Roma who have come, but perhaps in certain places you could have small groups of homeless people who could lie and look after each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409215456	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409215457	It is not a proposal that I have heard before, but I think, in some way, that there is also a bit of a declaration of bankruptcy about it. We are one of the richest societies in the world, should we then just knock out our arms and give lost and say that then we just live with some people who fall so far outside the community that they have to take care of themselves and sleep on the sidewalk? I don't think so. At least I'm not prepared to give in to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409215522	Thank you to Mrs Christina Egelund. Now we have come to the rapporteur for the proposers, Mr President. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409215543	Thank you. No, at least we shouldn't give up. We must create a much, much stronger homeless effort. However, the proposal here is to abolish the zone ban, and I hope the President forgives me for saying that the Radicals also support this proposal, just as they supported the last proposal. The zone ban was introduced to limit so-called insecurity-building camps. In particular, the government has done a great deal to reduce the number of homeless foreigners. The vast majority of cases we hear, however, show that the ban often affects ordinary homeless people, both Danish and foreign, who sleep alone on the streets or in pairs. In fact, this means that a ban on homelessness has been put in place in practice. The fact that the zone ban hits Danish homeless is documented by the fact that a large group of Danish homeless people have spent the night in front of Christiansborg here tonight in what they call a safe camp. The night was a demonstration against the zone ban. To understand the situation of the homeless, I slept with them myself last night at the Palace Square. Outwardly it was a very, very peaceful camp. I do not think that any of the citizens who came by on a regular Monday night felt insecure. Nor did people who came by in a late night hour feel uncomfortable about it. Nor was any of the passers-by trying to do anything to the homeless, but it may also be a bit incomprehensible when many people are lying together. On the other hand, I learned that the homeless not only seek together at night to create security and security, but also to warm each other and to help each other. Homeless people often face social challenges and physical and mental illnesses. There were several times last night when a homeless person woke up unhappy or with very severe pain and was helped by the others. Many homeless people are unhappy people, sick people, and the night can be long. It actually touched me last night how more homeless people dropped their own night's sleep to help others in need. I think it gives further reason to let homeless people stay overnight in small groups. I think it's heartless to keep them from sleeping together. If this proposal does not go through, which unfortunately does not suggest it does, then I think we should look again at the proposal from the homeless's own organisation, SAND, where accommodation zones are proposed. They don't want to be on Strøget. They say that you might be able to create some accommodation zones available by metro or train, and then you could say that it is a little less who sleep there together, so that we do not experience large groups of homeless people sleeping together. Furthermore, as the proposer, we also point out that our proposal here is in line with the UN guiding principles of extreme poverty and human rights, which state that states are being called upon to abolish the criminalisation of the life-sustaining acts of homeless people carried out in public spaces, such as sleeping, begging, eating, and activities related to personal hygiene. We find it pointless and unreasonable that homeless people should be criminalised and, in some cases, deported by the municipality simply because they are homeless and are staying with other homeless people. I've been talking to a lot of homeless people in the last few days who've been hitting, kicking and peeing. Some have experienced rape in situations where they lie alone. I think it is heartless that we do not find a solution to leave these people together for a few. Instead of punishing and criminalising homeless people, we recommend that the government strengthen efforts to reduce homelessness in Denmark, increase investment in shelters and cheaper housing. But we also propose that we roll back the zone ban. And as I hope the President will again forgive, I would like to say that with this bill, as with the last one, I thank Enhedslisten, SF and Radicals for their support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409220033	Thank you. There's nothing to forgive here. Everything that has been said is fully within the framework of what has to be said from the platform. But there are no brief comments, so we thank Mr. Torsten Gejl for today's efforts. There are several rapporteurs or other ministers, etc. There isn't. The negotiations are over. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190409220115	Then we have reached the end of this day, namely the 79th anniversary of a very sad event in the history of Denmark on 9 April 1940. I would like to thank everyone for today's work in the service of the people's regime. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be tomorrow, Wednesday, 10 April 2019, kl. 13.00. I refer you to the agenda set out on the Parliament's website.
