ParlaMint-DK_20191217120010	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Employment (Peter Hummelgaard): Bill no. L 85 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Unemployment Insurance, etc.) Pia Kjærsgaard (DF) etc.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 62 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution introducing the possibility of opting out of halal products and ensuring greater knowledge of the effects of halal taxes). Liselott Blix (DF) and Karina Adsbøl (DF): Request no. F 27 (About the assessment of new medicines for rare diseases. ) (Will the Minister, on the basis of the Medical Council's evaluation and the consultation of the Parliamentary Committee on Health and Older People's Rights ensure that the assessment of new medicines for rare diseases which do not already have medical treatment is withdrawn from the Medical Council, since it does not seem to have a sufficient basis to ensure a proper assessment of such medicines?)). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). Too bad if you can't hear me. Apparently, there's something wrong with the technique. That is not so good, because we have a lot of votes today. Is it gonna be better now? Good.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217120137	Thomas Danielsen (V) has applied for leave from 1 January 2020, according to section 41 of the Rules of Procedure. 3 (c) Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF) has applied for leave from 1 January 2020 and Jens Joel (S) has applied for leave from 6 January 2020, both in accordance with Paragraph 41 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 4. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217120216	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the second deputy for the Left in the Østsjællands Storkreds, Gitte Willumsen, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing as from 1 January 2020 on the occasion of Thomas Danielsen's leave. It should be noted that the first deputy has announced that he does not wish to take up such leave. Deputy for the Socialist People's Party in North Jutland Storkreds, Theresa Berg Andersen, is hereby approved as a temporary member of the Folketing from 1 January 2020 on the occasion of Lisbeth Bech Poulsen's leave. Finally, I have received the recommendation that the First Deputy for Social Democracy in the Østjyllands Storkreds, Dorthe Hindborg, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing from 6 January 2020 on the occasion of Jens Joel's leave. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217120309	The committee's recommendation shall then be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 110 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT, NB and LA) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The Committee's position has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217120346	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 37 by Birgitte Vind (S), Nils Sjøberg (RV), Peder Hvelplund (EL), Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF) and Susanne Zimmer (ALT), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 61 (S, RV, SF, EL and ALT), against 51 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 37 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 36 of Karina Adsbøl (DF), Jane Heitmann (V), Per Larsen (KF) and Henrik Dahl (LA) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217120451	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 34 of Lennart Damsbo-Andersen-Andersen (S), Rasmus Helveg Petersen (RV), Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt (SF), Henning Hyllested (EL) and Sikandar Siddique (ALT), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 61 (S, RV, SF, EL and ALT), against 52 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 34 is adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 33 by Mette Hjermind Dencker (DF) and proposals for adoption No. V 35 by Peter Juel-Jensen-Jensen (V) and Mona Juul (KF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217120553	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are four proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 30 of Rasmus Stoklund (S), and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 30 (S), against 81 (V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT, NB and LA), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 30 has been rejected. We shall then vote on the motion for a resolution (Doc. V 29 by Morten Dahlin (V), Pia Kjærsgaard (DF), Rasmus Jarlov (KF), Pernille Vermund (NB) and Henrik Dahl (LA), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour 51 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), against 61 (S, RV, SF, EL and ALT), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 29 has been rejected. We shall then vote on the motion for a resolution (Doc. V 31 by Halime Oguz (SF), Samira Nawa (RV) and Rosa Lund (EL), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 31 (RV, SF, EL and ALT), against 81 (S, V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 31 has been rejected. Finally, we shall vote on the motion for a resolution (Doc. V 32 of Sikandar Siddique (ALT). There are problems with the vote here. The Minister for the Environment has lost his voice, so we're gonna move around a little bit. Then we can vote on the motion for a resolution No. V 32 of Sikandar Siddique (ALT). The vote will end. in favour of 3 (ALT), against 110 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 32 has been rejected. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217120908	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217120919	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote will end. In favour of 24 (DF, KF, NB and LA), against 88 (S, V, RV, SF, EL and ALT), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217120945	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217120953	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-11, elected by a majority of the Committee with the exception of LA? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should be dealt with directly in the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217121031	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217121037	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 9 of a minority (LA), joined by a minority (V, DF, and KF). A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of voting 50 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), against 62 (S, RV, SF, EL and ALT), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 11, tabled and joined by the same minorities, lapsed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 10, to be elected by the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217121152	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217121222	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217121251	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217121303	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 of a minority (V), joined by the committee, that the bill is divided into two legislative proposals? The division of the legislative proposal into two legislative proposals is hereby adopted. The bill referred to in A is then put to the vote [Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Recovery of Debts to the Government, the Tax Reporting Act and the Act on Active Employment Efforts] (Municipally owned utilities' choice of private recovery, the recovery authority's overturning of the costs of the debtor through the use of a private creditor for recovery abroad and obsolescence, etc. in proceedings for recovery, etc.President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). 2 of a minority (DF), joined by a minority (SF and KF) and can be voted on. The vote will end. In favour of 29 votes (DF, SF, KF and NB), against 76 abstentions (S, V, RV, ALT, LA and 2 SF (by mistake)) 8 abstentions (EL). The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 3 and joined by the same minorities, lapsed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 4 and 5, adopted by a majority (Committee with the exception of EL), on Amendment No. 6 of a minority (V), joined by the committee, or on Amendment No. 7 and 8, elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of EL)? They are adopted. A vote is then taken on the draft law referred to in B [Proposal for a law amending the Law on the Recovery of Debts to the Government and the Tax Reporting Act (Cancelling of the right to deduct interest on amounts receivable in the course of recovery]]: Request for a vote on Amendment No 2. 9 of a minority (V), joined by the committee? It's agreed. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217121434	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217121443	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 by a minority (DF), elected by a majority (the other committee), that the bill is divided into two? The division of the legislative proposal into two has thus been adopted. The proposal referred to in A is then put to the vote [Proposal for a Law amending the Property Assessment Act, the Property Advance Tax Act, the Property Value Tax Act, the Municipal Property Tax Act and the Tax Administration Act (Fixation of Land and Property Values Act, delimiting the derived effect of appeals and legal proceedings, deriving tax effect in the event of an extraordinary resumption of property valuations, simultaneous property value tax and land tax and other adjustments in the field of valuation, etc.PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2-24, member of the Committee? They are adopted. A vote is then taken on the proposal referred to in B [Proposal for a law amending the Tax Administration Act (Advanced tax effect in the event of an extraordinary resumption of property valuations]]: Request for a vote on Amendment No. 25 of a minority (DF), elected by a majority (other committee)? It's agreed. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217121539	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Mr. Henning Hyllested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217121554	After all, the draft law is about extending the tax exemption which has so far been reserved for seafarers on ships under the Danish International Ship Register, DIS, and this is therefore a state aid scheme for the Danish shipping industry, which the European Commission will no longer approve unless the scheme is extended to all ship registers in all EU and EEA countries. There we have to say on the part of the Enhedslisten that we think that the situation we have got into with this bill that is now going to be implemented is quite grotesque. Now we come in the situation that Danish tax dollars can in future go to support European shipping companies in competition with Danish shipping companies. It is therefore quite contrary to the reasoning and arguments used at the time to establish the DIS scheme, namely to support Danish shipping companies in the fierce competition we are always hearing about from other shipping companies on the oceans, including shipping companies flying flags of convenience, such as France. the open FOC registers, as they are called, in Cyprus and Malta, which are therefore considered to be flags of convenience. If this bill is adopted, then the only thing that is seriously left of the DIS-schemes is the tax exemption itself, and the DIS-law and the section 10 which is in the DIS-law, in fact the shameful one and among sailors hated section 10 of the law itself. It is a clause which prevents seafarers' professional organisations from representing seafarers on board DIS ships, negotiating their pay and working conditions and concluding collective agreements. Indeed, the ILO has repeatedly for years, ever since the DIS Act was adopted in 1988, drawn the attention of successive Danish governments to the breach of the Convention and called for tripartite negotiations to get things right. But nothing has happened, and Denmark is thus guilty of violating the most fundamental labour rights, contrary to the way in which we have, moreover, organized ourselves in the Danish labour market. For this reason, the Enhedslisten has tabled an amendment in connection with the bill which removes Article 10 of the DIS Act. Unfortunately, it is only backed up by SF, and thanks to SF for it. It is unbelievable that the parties in the Danish Parliament, and perhaps especially the Social Democrats, will continue to allow Denmark of all countries to suppress the most fundamental labour rights and only to please a profession that falls into state aid which, in fact, with this bill, L 72, can no longer be reserved for the Danish shipping industry. It is a completely grotesque situation that we have come into.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217121923	Thank you, sir. Henning Hyllested. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217121931	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 of a minority (DF), joined by a minority (V, EL, KF and LA), which together represents a majority of the committee, that the bill is divided into two legislative proposals? Sharing the bill in two legislative proposals is hereby adopted. It will then vote on the draft law referred to in A [Proposal for a law amending the Maritime Taxation Act, the Tonnage Tax Act and various other laws (Adjustment of the DIS scheme and tonnage tax scheme to EU law in the light of demands from the Commission)]: Request for a vote on Amendment No. 2 of a minority (DF), joined by a minority (V, EL, KF and LA), which together represents a majority of the committee? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 3 of a minority (DF), joined by a minority (V), and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour 44 (V, DF, 4 RV (by mistake) and NB) voted against 69 (S, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. 4 and joined by the same minorities who were rejected. It has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 5-8 of a minority (DF), joined by a minority (V, EL, KF and LA), which together represents a majority of the committee? It's agreed. The bill referred to in B is then put to the vote [Proposal for a law amending the Seaman Tax Act, the Tonnage Tax Act and various other laws] (Adjustment of the refund scheme for sand-suckers to EU law, adjustment of protection rules in the tonnage tax scheme, extension of the seaman's allowance to seafarers on research and marine survey ships, etc.)President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). 10 of a minority (DF) and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour 13 (DF and NB), against 100 (S, V, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 11 and 12 of a minority (DF), joined by a minority (V, EL, KF and LA), which together constitute a majority of the committee, or on Amendment No. 13, to be elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of EL and KF)? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 14 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (SF), and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 19 (Nils Sjøberg (RV), SF and EL), against 93 (S, V, DF, RV, KF, ALT, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. Nine, tabled and joined by the same minorities, lapsed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 15, adopted by a majority (the committee with the exception of EL and KF) or on Amendment No. 15, adopted by a majority (the committee with the exception of EL and KF) or on Amendment No. 15. 16-20 of a minority (DF), joined by a minority (V, EL, KF and LA) which together represents a majority of the committee? They are adopted. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217122235	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217122307	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217122314	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 of a minority (EL), joined by a majority (the other committee) that the bill is divided into two? Sharing the bill in two legislative proposals is hereby adopted. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217122357	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217122406	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 by a minority (V), endorsed by a majority (the other committee) that the bill is divided into two legislative proposals? The division of the legislative proposal into two legislative proposals is hereby adopted. The bill referred to in A is then voted on [Proposal for a law amending the law on the taxation of certain packagings, bags, disposable and PVC foils (the Packaging Tax Act), the law on the temporary reduction of penalties for infringements of tax legislation relating to funds in foreign accounts, etc. and the law on collection (Addition of tax on carrier bags and one-off services, etc.PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2-4, adopted by a majority (S, RV, SF, EL, KF and ALT) or on Amendment No. 5 of a minority (V), elected by a majority (the other committee)? They are adopted. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) (Parliament adopted the resolution) 6 of a minority (V), joined by a minority (KF), and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour 35 (V and KF), against 78 (S, DF, RV, SF, EL, ALT, NB and LA), abstentions 0. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. 8, 10 and 12, tabled and joined by the same minorities as rejected. They are rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 7, 9, 11 and 13, elected by a majority (S, RV, SF, EL and ALT)? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 14 of a minority (V), joined by a minority (KF), and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour 35 (V and KF), against 78 (S, DF, RV, SF, EL, ALT, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 16 and joined by the same minorities, lapsed. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. 18 and 20, tabled and joined by the same minorities as rejected. They are rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 22, 25 and 27-30, submitted and joined by the same minorities, lapsed. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. Twenty-four, tabled and joined by the same minorities, lapsed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 15, 17, 19, 21, 23, 26 and 31-35, joined by a majority (S, RV, SF, EL and ALT)? They are adopted. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217122631	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217122657	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217122707	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-4, adopted by a majority of the committee, or on Amendment No 1. 5 and 6, adopted by the Committee; on Amendments Nos 5 and 6, adopted by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and adopted by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and adopted by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 9, adopted by the Committee; on Amendment No 9, adopted by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection; on Amendment No 9, adopted by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection; on Amendment No 9, adopted by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection; on Amendment No 9, adopted by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection; on Amendment No 9, adopted by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection; on Amendment No 9, adopted by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection; on Amendment No 9, adopted by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 10 and 11, adopted by a majority; on Amendments Nos. 10 and 11, adopted by a majority. 12, adopted by the Committee; on Amendment No 12, adopted by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 26 on Amendment No 26 by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration outside the report; President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 14-16, adopted by the Committee; on Amendment No. 14-16, adopted by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). 18-20, adopted by the Committee; on Amendment No. 18-20, adopted by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection; on Amendment No. 18-20, adopted by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection; on Amendment No. 18-20, adopted by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection; on Amendment No. 18-20, adopted by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 21. adopted by a majority; on Amendment No 21. 22, adopted by the Committee; on Amendment No 22, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 23 and 24, adopted by a majority; on Amendments Nos. 23 and 24, adopted by a majority. 27 on the report by the Minister for It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217122837	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is over and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217122845	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (SF and ALT). The vote shall be taken on whether the draft law can be divided into two parts. It's voting now. The vote will end. In favour of 30 (RV, SF, EL and ALT), against 82 (S, V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. In this way, the division of the bill has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 2-4 to this bill lapsed. Amendments shall then be put to the vote under the proposed act. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 6 by a minority (RV). A vote can be taken. The vote will be taken at the end In favour of 31 votes (RV, SF, EL and ALT), 82 abstentions (S, V, DF, KF, NB and LA). The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 5 of the same minority lapsed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 7 of a minority (RV). A vote can be taken. The vote will be taken at the end In favour of 31 (RV, SF, EL and ALT), against 81 (S, V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 8 - Acting by a majority? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217123052	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is over. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217123120	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217123128	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217123201	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217123202	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217123230	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is over and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217123235	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-18, elected by the committee? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 19 of a minority (DF). A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of voting 11 (DF), against 100 (S, V, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 20-22, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217123340	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217123346	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217123417	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is over and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217123421	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-7, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217123444	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is over. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217123511	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217123517	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-25, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217123603	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. That concludes the debate and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217123613	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-3, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217123638	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, Left does. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217123648	The bill we are discussing today is, after all, about the annual update of the Employers' Educational Contribution, which is the result of the tripartite agreement we made back in 2016, which was about creating more internships. This has also been achieved on a number of points. Nevertheless, we can see that companies pay more money every year than is necessary in the scheme. This is completely contrary to the principle on which the scheme was based, which was a principle of balance between payments and payments under the Employers' Educational Contributions Scheme. This means that we are now faced with a legislative proposal that we have to deal with today, with the savings that are behind it saving no less than 4 billion. kr. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from the date of entry into force of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L In the past, we have had a similar problem in the field of the VEU, which the Reichsaudit has strongly criticised, and we therefore believe that it is necessary for the Danish Parliament to assume the responsibility of ensuring that payments and payments in the scheme are rebalanced when dealing with L 60. That is why we have tabled an amendment to the draft law, which strikes a balance between payments and payments, while at the same time ensuring that more work placements can also be created in the future for young people applying for vocational training. I think it is a pity to see that the government has refused to take responsibility for balancing payments, because it basically exacerbates the situation that we already know has been created and which the Reichsaudit has now also opened an investigation into. It is also a pity that the Radical Left, as an otherwise financially responsible party, does not feel free enough to support the amendment, so that we could strike a balance in this area as early as 2020. That is why we are now faced with the situation that the Danish Parliament is now jointly responsible for ensuring that a supposed accumulated surplus is not taken care of, which the National Audit Office is supposed to criticise with the investigations that have been initiated. I just think you should know that when you choose not to vote for the amendment that has been chosen by all the civil-liberal parties to support. Thus, the members of the Danish Parliament, with open eyes and open eyes, actually help to go in and receive a forward-looking criticism from the National Audit Office, because they do not accept responsibility for ensuring balance in the systems. So I hope that, towards the third reading, we will be able to have a fresh discussion so that the parties also take on the responsibility of ensuring the balance of labour market payments in the whole area of training contributions, so that we do not have a similar situation as we saw in the VEU area.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217123932	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217123938	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2, to be elected by the Committee? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 3 of a minority (V), joined by a minority (DF, KF, NB and LA). A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour 51 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), against 61 (S, RV, SF, EL and ALT), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 1, tabled and joined by the same minorities, lapsed. It has been proposed that the bill be referred back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217124040	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It has been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217124106	I have been informed by the Enhedslisten that they wish to accept Amendment No. 1 and 5-9 of the report remain. Does anyone wish to maintain these proposals? As this is not the case, the amendments have lapsed. Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Mrs Pernille Vermund of New Citizens does. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217124124	Thank you for the floor. Left, Conservative People's Party, DF and LA have strongly opposed this bill, which will give more money to migrants and immigrants. For example: On 25 November, the Left rapporteur, Morten Dahlin, said to B.T.: Mette Frederiksen does exactly the opposite of what she promised the electorate before the election. It's a shame for the people that she's not doing what she's elected to do. On 25 November the Conservative People's Party rapporteur, Rasmus Jarlov, said to the same newspaper: "There is no doubt that the Social Democratic Party is under pressure from the Enhedslisten and Radicals. But they can always come over to us bourgeois if they want to maintain the strict foreign policy. ▪ I would say to the Left and Morten Dahlin: Yes, it is a completely wrong direction to go in. It will permanently harm Danish society if we allow the government and the left to relax foreign policy. And I'd like to say to Mr. Rasmus Jarlov and the Conservative People's Party: When the government conducts the policy of the left and breaks the promise to the Danes to maintain a strict foreign policy, is it not both reasonable and necessary that we allow the voters to have the last word? A large majority of the Danes, of the voters, voted in the spring for parties that loudly and sacredly promised not to relax foreign policy. Now the government is doing it anyway. Paragraph 42 of the Constitution allows us to stop this relaxation of foreign policy and have a referendum. That's what the Constitution is meant to be, and that's how it's supposed to be used. Paragraph 42 of the Constitution is the Danes' protection against politicians who promise one, but do something else. The Danish People's Party has already indicated that they are on the side of the Danes, and thank you for your support for it. But dear colleagues in the Left, the Conservative People's Party and LA, it is up to you now. Friday after the vote there will be lists on which you can sign and should sign if you want to stop the government and the left from relaxing foreign policy. You have all spoken in capital letters against giving more money to migrants and immigrants. On Friday, you will show that you are letting action follow your words. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217124403	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217124413	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2-4 member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217124437	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217124441	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT and NB). And a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of voting 11 (EL and ALT), against 99 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 2-4 outside the report adopted by the Minister for Employment. They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217124538	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217124543	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT) and can be voted on. The vote will end. In favour of 11 (EL and ALT), against 100 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. 1 and joined by the same minorities who have disappeared. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217124630	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217124638	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (SF and ALT) and can be voted on. The vote will end. In favour of 20 (SF, EL and ALT), against 91 (S, V, DF, RV, KF NB and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2, to be elected by the Committee? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 3 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (SF and ALT) and can be voted on. The vote will end. in favour of 21 (SF, EL and ALT), against 89 (S, V, DF, RV, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 4 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (SF and ALT) and can be voted on. The vote will end. in favour of 21 (SF, EL and ALT), against 90 (S, V, DF, RV, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217124817	Amendments have been tabled. Sir. Christian Juhl wishes to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217124824	Now it is both the Minister for Employment and I who have tabled amendments, so he can tell us about his, and then I will tell you about mine. I will try to take them at once so that I do not spend too much of the President's time. These are the proposals that have come in the wake of the Committee of Experts set up when we discovered that the working environment in our workplaces went the wrong way. After all, there has been a long debate and some of the proposals have been included in a legislative package. However, there are proposals, such as: FH has submitted during the consultation period, which has not been included, and of course I have politely asked the Minister why he has not taken them along, and I shall leave it between him and me what was the answer. But I have tabled it as an amendment. There are a total of six amendments which should have been eight, but I was told by the Minister that two of the proposals were not in a pay-as-you-go framework. It was a direct grant of 150 million. kr. In addition, there is a need for the social partners to make some improvements. We'll take them in another round. The first proposal concerns the fact that at all workplaces you have something called a monitoring book, where you have to say which messages have come from the Factory Inspectorate and what answers have been given. The watchbook means we should abolish the minister because we live in a digital age. However, since it is the case that the Danish Labour Inspectorate's digital self-service solution and the working environment in a company are not designed in such a way that health and safety representatives can access it, he will confine himself to saying that the employer must declare that he has notified the health and safety representative. It's a very strange arrangement. Then you might as well keep the monitoring book until you have set up your IT system in such a way that the health and safety representative is equally involved in the work on the working environment. That is why I have put forward the proposal that the health and safety representative should have access to the Danish Labour Inspectorate's digital self-service service. Proposal number two is about the fact that if there is a feedback deadline, the employer must declare that the OSH organisation or employees have been involved in it, and this feedback must be made under criminal liability. It could be that there was a reckless employer who just said: well, I've talked to them about that. And that may not be true, and of course he must have one over his head if he does not involve the employees. Proposal number three is about the fact that, as a general rule, the Factory Inspectorate must contact companies 1-4 months before supervision, but that supervision itself must be unannounced. That is my amendment. It cannot be the intention that an employer can plan after exactly the days when the Factory Inspectorate is visiting, you can have a completely different work environment than you have the days when the Factory Inspectorate is not visiting. Then there isn't much about an authority if they have to report it every time they come to visit. Suggestions no. 4 suggest that the Factory Inspectorate should as a rule review the whole working environment of the company. We have had grotesque examples of the Labour Inspectorate looking at small individual parts or just a single part of a single room in the company. It's quite meaningless, so the other employees are saying, "What about our problems out here, where it's dusting at the pummel?" There we have to have them look at it too, because otherwise it is toothless to have a labour inspectorate. That is also why they get so much criticism, i.e. because they do not consistently investigate everything that they do, for example. on a construction site only investigates the working environment of the electricians and not the working environment of the earth and concrete workers. This is pointless, and we therefore propose that, as a rule, the whole workplace should be reviewed when you are on company visits. Proposal number five is about a new arrangement that the Minister will have introduced, namely that we can enter into agreement. If e.g. A supermarket chain in one city has a problem, the company can make an agreement that it should be put in order in all companies at once. But then I think that they must do it themselves too, so they should not spend time with the Danish Labour Inspectorate on dialogue and guidance. Then they must buy themselves the expertise that exists. Therefore it must be the case that if contracts are concluded • what I think is a bad idea; they should be given instructions and clear notice; they should not have an agreement that now they can then wander around for a while with illegal companies • then they should not be entitled to additional services from the Factory Inspectorate. It should be applied to other companies instead. Proposal No 6 is about the serious things that we have seen in recent years and continue to see. We have just seen a company in Varde destroy eight workers' lungs with a chemical that they themselves have imported from China. And if companies have chemical health and safety problems and receive an injunction, external authorized advisers must be required to be used. You can't just say that you have some foreman who might be able to handle these things. It must be authorized people who must help them with the things, otherwise the level will fall, which means that it may be dragging on. I really had hoped that the Minister would go with these six proposals, but a little stubbornly he said no, and of course I appeal to you to help get them voted through anyway, because it is extremely important that we get these rules in place. It is about people's lives and health at work, and that is why we must have the highest standards and not an intermediate standard, as will be the case in these six areas if we do not get the proposals voted through. And I should like to say from the FH that it is quite, quite serious things and quite important things to vote through. So you should think about that when you're about to vote. And otherwise the Minister will have to come up and explain why he doesn't want to be a part of these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217125445	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217125453	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 by a minority (EL). A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of voting 8 (EL), against 103 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, KF, ALT, NB and LA), abstentions 0. It has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217125723	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217125729	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-27 member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217125753	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217125759	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (SF and ALT). A vote can be taken. The vote will end. in favour of 20 (SF, EL and ALT), against 90 (S, V, DF, RV, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. It has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2-11, member of the Committee? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 12 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT). A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of voting 11 (EL and ALT), against 99 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. It has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 13-24, member of the Committee? It's agreed. It has been proposed that the draft law be referred back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217125930	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217125935	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217125958	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is over. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217130018	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Since that is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217130021	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, elected by a majority (S, RV, SF, EL and ALT)? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217130414	I would point out that any votes on proposals for adoption will not be taken until 19 December. I would also point out that we have three ministers, all of whom come up and answer the question from up here. After each minister there is an opportunity for a question to the Minister from each of the rapporteurs in the front row here. Afterwards, when it's over, it's normal by one and a half minutes. But we will start by getting the reasons for the question, and that is the rapporteur for the questions, Mr President. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217130451	Thank you very much. I thank the Prime Minister, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Defence for being able to meet today at this debate and, above all, for having done a great deal to ensure that the question could be put on today. After all, we all agree here that the subject of Greenland, NATO, Denmark, the United States and the Faroe Islands in these months is highly current culminating with President Trump's bizarre buy offer in mid-August heat. I would also like to thank the Prime Minister for keeping a cool head and thank her for her speedy and necessary response and, moreover, also thank the President-in-Office of the Council for a similar dignified rejection. My questions today are: how are we to deal in the Kingdom with the US's significantly increasing foreign and security policy commitment in Greenland? To what extent are there direct negotiations between representatives of the national government and high-level representatives of the United States? And how can the top politicians of Greenland and the Faroe Islands be involved in security matters when they are not, as Danish ministers, regulated? Without this security clearance, it is in my view impossible to create a confidential forum in the Kingdom. Besides: Why do Greenlandic and Faroese men not serve in military service and thus contribute to the security of the kingdom? All in all, my question is: how should Denmark militarily and civilianly equip itself further on land, water and in the air on and around Greenland in order to meet our obligations and, most importantly, the future presence of the defence in and around Greenland? It is my hope that this debate will contribute in a good and objective manner to the strengthening of the Kingdom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217130642	Thank you, sir. Søren Espersen. Then we begin with the answer, and that is the Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217130653	Thank you. I've been looking forward to today. By the way, this is my first question debate as Prime Minister, so thank you for giving me the opportunity to make that debut. I think this is a good opportunity to discuss the issues which are of great importance both for Greenland and for Denmark and, above all, for cooperation between us. After all, the question is about the interest shown by international partners, especially Greenland and the consequences it has. I would like to start by stating at the outset that regardless of what others may have of interest in the Arctic, I hope that it will continue to be a major priority for us in the Kingdom Community. However, it is clear that the increasing focus presents some new challenges on which we need to have a more structured discussion. After all, we are three different countries that are interwoven with families and friendships and our history, and our foundation in the Kingdom community is cooperation and self-determination and, of course, also a recognition that we are different and that we are bound together. It is, of course, in many ways a unique construction, which I sense many people in the world find difficult to understand, but is also incredibly concerned with. It is clear that the Arctic is and must be a very central part of our foreign policy, our security policy and our defence policy, and this also applies to external partners. As the Danish Parliament is aware, I had the opportunity to meet the President of the United States here at the beginning of December. At that meeting we also briefly touched on developments in the Arctic and the North Atlantic, and this was a constructive discussion. As one of the five Arctic coastal states, the kingdom has a unique position in order to influence developments in the Arctic, and that responsibility and opportunity must be taken seriously. The objective should still be low-voltage, but we must, of course, pay more attention to the changes that are also taking place around the Arctic. We have started work now on a new common strategy for the Arctic, which will set the direction towards 2030. Our cooperation with the Americans, which is probably what the question is, is whether the defence of Greenland has provided peace and security since the 1940s, that is for quite a number of years. Right now, we are seeing the United States strengthening both its political and military focus, just as the Americans agree with us that there is a need for more strategic and focused cooperation on the Arctic and the North Atlantic, and I think that is a positive thing. For the Americans, of course, this is about safeguarding core interests. Greenland's geostrategic location is central to the national security of the United States and, of course, the American side is increasingly concerned about how both Russia and China behave in the region. If we dwell especially on the first, we can also see that over recent years Russia has considerably expanded its military presence in the Arctic, and from new Arctic bases Russia will have the ability to attack Thule Base and North-East Greenland at short notice. Thulebase's radar is important to the United States in terms of information about missile launches and thus the US self-defense. I also think it is important to say that there is an increasing interest on the part of the United States in China's presence in the region. I believe that there is an increasing interest in China at all, but that is also true in relation to the Arctic. I would like to make it clear today that, on the issue of the great-maggivalisation and the Arctic, I believe that Denmark should take the position quite clearly that we are allies with the United States, and it is the United States that is our primary ally when it comes to defence and security policy. The alliance we have with the Americans, with the United States, is basically based on very, very important common values. It is also based on the recognition that we need each other in defence and security policy, and this also applies to Article 5 of NATO on the musketeen nest. We have been working for a long time across changing governments to ensure that the American military presence in Greenland is more beneficial to Greenland, in other words beyond the purely military, and so we also think that the increasing interest of the Americans can also have a positive perspective. On the question of how the government intends to deal with the US's significantly increasing foreign and security policy commitment in Greenland, my short answer is therefore that I think we should welcome this, and that is also what Naalakersuisut has reported from Greenland. This does not mean that we share the Americans' view of everything, and the climate issue is a good example of us standing in two different places, but when it comes to cooperation in relation to the Arctic, I think we should welcome it. Thank you to the Danish People's Party for taking the initiative in this question debate. This is an important theme, and it's also a sensitive theme. Many parties are involved, which is why mutual respect and orderlyness are also essential in the way we discuss matters between the three parties in the community of the Kingdom. We have a dialogue which is based to a large extent not only on understanding but also on respect and good conduct, and I think that is what we are doing the longest. But I look forward to today's debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217131306	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Christian Juhl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217131311	Thank you for that and thank you for your statement. Unfortunately, there is only one question to ask here. I cannot understand why both in the proposal for a text which the Socialists are behind, but also in the speech by the Prime Minister, there is talk of foreign, security and defence policy. I thought we'd come to the era where there was climate in front of it all. Why is climate not a central theme? So, it is the North Pole, it is parts of Greenland that are so changed by the melting of the ice, and it is there that both very positive things happen, narrowly but disastrous things happen in the global picture. What is the reason for mentioning only foreign, security and defence policy and not mentioning the crucial issue at the moment, namely climate?
ParlaMint-DK_20191217131358	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217131400	In fact, the question today is about foreign, security and defence policy, and that is why we have sought to adopt it in line with what the question is about. In addition, however, I fully agree that the climate issue and the Arctic are extremely important, and it has to be said that Greenland is all the way out there, where you can see and hear climate change. So there is no doubt in my mind that our common desire, by the way, to strengthen climate change efforts and respond to climate change must also be based to a great extent on the Arctic. I just see the question today as referring to something else. So that is the only reason: technology, not politics.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217131445	Then it's mr. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217131449	Thank you very much for your reply to the Prime Minister. I think she made good points. In relation to the negotiations, the talks that have then taken place between the Prime Minister and the President, but also at other levels, the Prime Minister considers that this talk of independence, which has really speeded up Greenland in the last 10 years after the adoption of the Self-Government Act, has given rise to the interest of the Americans, some sense that it may now be necessary to show due care, because one does not know when independence will come? Has it ever been discussed that this was something that really set the Americans in motion? Because you've been at it before. I also remember that already under Ambassador Cain in 2008-09, after the adoption of the Autonomy Act, there was an interest in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217131544	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217131546	I have to say that I have not been presented with this coupling myself, but in fact rather hear it as a sincere debate, but a sincere American interest in defending myself and, by the way, being sure that the United States' allies are also aware of the potential challenges around the Arctic. So when I am specifically asked about it in relation to what I have been presented, the dialogue I might have had, the conversations I have entered into, a question about Greenland's independence has actually not been entered into there. But it's in my view I don't know if you can use that word from the Danish Parliament's chair of hardcore security policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217131628	You can do that. Sir. Søren Espersen, there's only one question in this round, but when we're done with the minister, we'll go back to the normal procedure. Now it's sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217131638	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Prime Minister for the statement here. One of the things we have seen is that we have become a frontline state in relation to the geopolitical power game there is. That is why I am pleased that we negotiated a text which seems to have very broad support in the Danish Parliament and which specifically mentions this investment screening scheme, which I heard the Prime Minister himself advocated earlier, and the Foreign Minister the same. That is why I think it is perhaps an opportunity to ask: what is the timetable for such a person? In any case, I know that the previous government started work in the spring, and we are now a few months further along. I fully understand that this is a problematic job just to get started. You have to have a dialogue with Greenland and the Faroe Islands, and there are probably a lot of technicalities and everything else that needs to be resolved. But we have just had a case in another part of the kingdom, and we have also had cases in the past in relation to Greenland which at least clarify a need. So I hope there will be an answer from the Prime Minister as to when we can see such an investment screening scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217131740	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217131742	I do not dare to set an exact date today, but I would like to endorse many of the words and say that this is an example of preparatory legislative work in which we have actually taken over the work of the previous government. And I do not see that there are major political differences about the need for this mechanism, and probably not really about what is going to be the content either. I would say this also in the light of the discussions we have had in the Name and elsewhere about it. I dare not come up with a date I would just like to come back and uncover it but I hope that this is legislation that we can get in place with a broad majority. In fact, here we have chosen to take the work of the previous government and continue to work on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217131831	Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217131833	Thank you to the Prime Minister for his statement. As the Prime Minister has said, it is a unique development that we have had in this whole area just for the past six months. It has been a bit like waking up, I think, to a new geopolitical reality with this strong interest of all the world's great powers for the Arctic area. Part of this is military-conditioned, defence-related, which we have been talking about, but that much is, in fact, economically conditional. So, the United States has offered to buy the island of Greenland, and then it has been decided to set up a consulate with seven employees to look in particular at how the United States can make itself more economical in Greenland. Similarly, the Chinese have shown great interest in making investments and Russia is expanding in the region. This leads me to ask whether the Prime Minister, who is responsible for the Kingdom Community, also sees a need for Denmark, if I may say so, together with Greenland and the Faroe Islands, to try to raise our commitment and presence, both diplomatically, politically and economically? It must of course be to the extent that Greenland itself is interested in it, but there are two to a tango, and Denmark can play out with a greater commitment than we have had so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217131948	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217131950	I am fundamentally in favour of this and therefore expect us, as part of the Arctic strategy, to continue our discussions on how we can be even more closely linked to foreign policy, including in our daily lives. For example, it could be with representation. This applies both ways, but it also applies, for example, to a stronger Danish representation in Nuuk. What is absolutely crucial to me is that we do this in a way that all three parties in the Kingdom Community can see themselves in, and that we follow along and make decisions wisely and properly with mutual respect. At no time will I speak against an increased Danish commitment to the kingdom community. It must be in the right way, but I would like to see a rich community that is even more closely connected, more firmly anchored and has even closer cooperation, and when I have also spoken on other occasions about foreign policy, it is really the same mindset. So I only have a positive feedback.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217132055	Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217132057	Thank you very much, too, to the Prime Minister for his reply. The IA has also supported this proposal for adoption, and some of what it says in that text is precisely this screening scheme. And one of the things that is important to us is that we ensure that Greenland is, of course, involved in this whole process of securing legislation that will then also apply to Greenland when it comes to external investment. The business sector, for example, is: This is an area which has been repatriated, so there may of course be some elements in which there is no security policy aspect. How can we expect this to be taken into account in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20191217132130	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217132131	I think that, first of all, when we are asked how we take this into account, it is that we go together in this work. My experience is that there is a very, very close and good dialogue about this. I think we must look at this in the way that we are entering a new era. We are security policy, we are foreign policy, and we are defence policy. We have been through decades when the world, with exceptions, not least on the terrorist side, has been quite peaceful, at least in the western part of the world. There we have to say that the tensions we experience in these years change and should also change the approach of both the Danish and the Danish community. That is why I do not think it can be said, as a starting point, that something is an enterprise policy and does not necessarily have an impression on some other areas as well. We will have to deal together with things that are patchy and that may have a security policy aspect, while at the same time, for example, it may have a business policy foundation. There I think the crucial thing is that we sit at the table together and decide on the legislation that was asked of the Left before. I believe that cooperation is the most important thing here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217132253	Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217132256	Thank you, and thank you to the Prime Minister. I really think that there is something interesting here: sitting around the table together, because in many ways the kingdom community is historically conditional, and what does that mean in the age we are in now, what does it mean in our present and our time that we have a kingdom community? So how does the Prime Minister think that we are taking it further than that there are a few areas that we are just talking about, but that we are actually taking the community that we three countries have with each other, including in terms of security policy, defence policy and foreign policy? But it is also in a number of other areas where we can actually help and support each other cross-cuttingly. So how does the Prime Minister view the future of a modern kingdom community?
ParlaMint-DK_20191217132336	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217132338	I believe that the most important words are equality, mutual respect, goodness, cooperation and even closer dialogue about some of the things we are discussing today • whether it is the exchange of information that we cannot exchange today, because we do not have the infrastructure for it, whether it is cooperation on screening legislation, whether it is a concrete presence in the field of foreign policy. Now it is a relatively short reply time I have, but the Kingdom Community is what we are making it. It's historically conditional. We are woven together, crosswise, and so far all three parties have chosen to say that we continue together. But it is also a community that is not static. It has moved, it has developed, and it should do so in the future. But equality seems to me to be absolutely, absolutely essential and the prerequisite for us to continue to have such a successful kingdom community. And as I said before, I find the rest of the world looking at the kingdom community and thinking: How on earth have you constructed it in such a fine way as you have succeeded?
ParlaMint-DK_20191217132447	Thank you, Prime Minister. There are no more brief comments. Then it's the Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217132456	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, and thank you for your attention. Søren Espersen to raise the question. The Prime Minister mentioned the Americans' desire for increased engagement in Greenland. In concrete terms, the Americans have among other things. requested to establish a consulate in Nuuk, and this has led to extensive travel and meeting activity. In addition, the Americans are constantly considering how the military presence in Greenland is best adapted to the development of the region. On the part of the Kingdom we see positive perspectives, but we also have a number of attention points. You may have heard of American ideas about infrastructure, raw materials, education, etc. in Greenland reflected in the press. In the government, together with Greenland, we are concerned that it will be translated into concrete results for the benefit of the Greenlanders. The commitment of the United States must also contribute in the long term to sustainable economic development. We are also aware of the United States' approach to the Commonwealth. Of course, we cannot determine the American approach, but in the Kingdom community we can choose to stand together. I have been asked to comment on reports that foreign and security policy is being negotiated at a high level directly between representatives of Greenland's self-government and senior representatives of President Trump's administration, and I have previously received a question from the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the same subject. In this context, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs obtained contributions from the Naala Suisut, which could deny that formal meetings or negotiations had been held with any US or other authority. This is evidence of a common understanding. When it comes to the Kingdom's foreign and security policy, the competence lies with the national authorities, but we cooperate closely in the Kingdom community, including on these issues. When foreign and security policy discussions are of particular importance to Greenland, they are carried out in close coordination with Greenland as provided for in the Self-Government Act. At the same time, I must also say that Greenland can of course meet with international partners on its own in full compliance with the authorisation system. We have a good dialogue with our Greenlandic colleagues about this, and sometimes, for example, we can. I should like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the Council has not yet taken a decision on this matter. Among other things: Against this background, it is important for the government that all parts of the Kingdom community are covered by the investment screening scheme. Greenland and the Faroe Islands shall be subject by common accord to the terms of reference on which the work on legislation is based. After all, the challenges are uniform for all of us in the Kingdom Community. It is therefore very positive that, within the Kingdom Community, we have an ongoing and close dialogue with respect for the division of competences within the Kingdom Community on the need for investment screening in the interests of security. I am pleased that President Kim Kielsen has also indicated that this is a necessary dialogue. After a visit by a major American delegation to Copenhagen and Nuuk in September, Berlingske wrote that the visit to Nuuk and the negotiations with among others. President Kim Kielsen created nervous twitching in both Greenland and Denmark. I can't feel it. We took part in the visit from Denmark and there was Greenlandic participation in the delegation's meetings here in Copenhagen. The visit was not a negotiation, but rather a study trip, and was an opportunity for both Denmark and Greenland to present the Kingdom's views jointly. The Kingdom Community can only function because it is based on political understanding, trust and mutual respect. We go to the same meetings that are about common matters. A practical example of this is my own meeting with the US Secretary of State Pompeo in Washington. A separate point on Greenland had been agreed for this meeting. That is why it was only natural and right for me to see that my good colleague from Naala Suisut, Ane Lone Bagger, took part in the discussion on that point. And if it is not possible to do this in practical terms, we will coordinate beforehand and follow up together between Greenland and Denmark. It is essential for me, as Foreign Minister, to strengthen cooperation and involvement in the Commonwealth of Foreign and Security Policy in full respect of the division of competences within the Commonwealth and in a spirit of mutual respect and trust. This has been the lead for me as a new Foreign Minister, and it will continue to be. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217132933	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217132938	Thank you. At a time when things are changing, I believe that foreign and security policy must change. When climate problems are as they are, we have to say that we cannot just do what we want to do in terms of security, foreign policy and defence policy for that matter. When climate change creates new risks and new problems in the world, I suppose we also need to create a new foreign policy that makes demands, including for those with whom we work, rather than just saying in relation to, for example, those with whom we work. The United States, that we always stand with the United States. I guess we also have to make some demands and ask the United States to work together equally if they want to act in Greenland and take account of those who live in Greenland and take account of the Danes. After all, they have not done so in a number of cases that we have discussed in the past. They haven't even cleaned up their old bases. They introduce radar without asking Denmark and Greenland about it, although it is a complete system change. It's a breach of the agreements we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217133033	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217133036	Thank you. I saw it more as a comment from Mr. Christian Juhl. We have a close and good cooperation between Greenland and Denmark, as I explained. We also have a very close and good relationship with the Americans on the part of the kingdom, and we must continue to have that. You have to remember how our security is connected. After all, our main security allies in the world are the Americans. It is they who are the guarantor of the security of the whole Kingdom, so in cooperation we must solve the challenges we face. This is true in the North Atlantic, and it is true in the Arctic. We have a common obligation to do so, and I am glad that we have the same understanding. Then, as I also mentioned, it is important for me as Foreign Minister that we build a close, good and trusting cooperation in all parts of the Kingdom community, i.e. both in Greenland and in relation to the Faroe Islands and, of course, with the Danish part.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217133125	Then it's mr. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217133128	I would like to start by thanking you for the clear rejection of the rumours about these meetings. It was nice to get it in place, and of course I trust that when the Secretary of State says so. I would like to talk about this with the close cooperation that is being said we have. Somehow I don't think it's close enough. After all, we have a meeting with the three Heads of Government once a year, but it is not my impression that much detail is being given. Some of it is simply to have a good time together, and it is also worthy of honor. But I think we need to establish a stronger forum where we can meet a few times a year with various ministers from all three parts of the kingdom. Because I think there are quite a few misunderstandings that arise, precisely because in my view cooperation is not as close as that expressed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is it an idea to try to work on making sure that we have a stronger forum so that we do not go from one misunderstanding to another within the kingdom?
ParlaMint-DK_20191217133238	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217133240	Thank you for that question, sir. Søren Espersen. I completely share Mr. Søren Espersen's view that we need close, respectful, trusting cooperation with all three parts of the kingdom and the kingdom community. That is also why the new government has taken great care to strengthen our foreign, security and defence policy cooperation within the Commonwealth. We have taken various initiatives on this, and we will do so in the future. I think that ideas about meeting, for example. More often, even at political level, are real ideas on which, of course, we already have different ideas. I generally believe that if we stand together, not only in the three parts of the Kingdom Community, but also here in the Danish Parliament, we can also deal with the security challenges we face, both in Denmark, Greenland and the Faroe Islands, even more strongly than if we do not have the close cooperation. So I fully share the intention of the questioner here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217133331	Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217133334	Thank you for your statement, which I very much agreed with. One might consider not so much the defence and security policy in a more harsh sense, but when it comes to the whole investment picture in Greenland, when it comes to the possibility of boosting Greenland's welfare and also the climate effort, if not Europe and the EU would be a partner that would in many ways more match the wishes that are also in Greenland's own government and in and for itself also in the Danish government. I would therefore like to ask the Foreign Minister whether the Arctic strategy on which we are working is also intended to create a European leg. For the European Union, like everyone else, has shown a greater interest in the past six months, but it has not become much more than a strategy paper and some notes if I am to be a little direct. But Denmark's interest in getting European investments, getting better agreements in the fisheries sector, getting fixed track schemes for labour to Greenland, maybe getting a better trade agreement for sealskin, for example, is huge. So is it something that the government takes seriously, if I may say so, and puts emphasis on? Because I think Europe could play a major role in Greenland's development here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217133447	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217133454	Thank you, sir. Martin Lidegaard. Yes, I fully agree that there are great prospects in an even closer, not least trade policy cooperation between Greenland and the European Union's internal market. This is very important for economic development. After all, it is not the case that the European Union does not focus on the Arctic. Most recently, when we had the Foreign Ministers' Foreign Affairs Council, it was in the conclusions that there must be greater support for the Arctic by the European Union, including the Arctic Council and the cooperation that works up there. Because I think it is really important that those who are in the driving seat are the five Arctic coastal states, including the kingdom and, above all, Greenland, because this is their relationship. Then the European Union supports the objectives that we have together in the Kingdom, and that will be very strong. So yes, we are working on an even closer relationship, because we all have a great economic interest in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217133546	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217133549	Thank you very much. Thank you for your statement, too. Recently, IA was in the Folketing in Brussels to discuss the topic of the EU and the Arctic. We believe it is extremely important that Greenland is proactive in relation to the European Union. We also know that there is a lot of lobbying going on in the European Union, so it is very important to be present, but also to be involved in ensuring that we are in the early debates. Another thing that we would very much like to see become part of the Kingdom's Arctic strategy is that we get more young people from Greenland into the External Action Service and thus help to strengthen foreign policy competence and knowledge. Because we believe that dialogue helps to create a greater understanding, and it goes like both ways. I would like to hear the Secretary of State's comments on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217133633	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217133636	Thank you for that, I think, important point that cooperation should not just remain loud declarations, but should also become concrete, for example. is Greenland's representation in Brussels together with Denmark in order to ensure that the representation also translates into some concrete, good agreements between Greenland and the EU. The second is also in relation to employees. I totally agree. We have a wish that the Danish side of the External Action Service here too is an external service for the whole Kingdom community, and that we work together to solve the challenges that are also in relation to, for example. Greenland. A concrete example is when we make trade promotion or export promotion and then more specifically invite Greenlandic companies into it, and this is a work that we have also set in motion just in that area. So there are a great many perspectives, a great potential that we must exploit together.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217133732	Thank you to the Secretary of State. Then it's the Secretary of Defense. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217133744	Thank you. The authors have also asked about the government's initiatives in relation to Danish defence's future presence in and around Greenland; and that is the part that I will explain. One of the most important challenges we are facing right now is monitoring in the Arctic and the North Atlantic. In 2016, the Defence Council concluded an agreement on the future mission of Defence in the Arctic, which was continued in the present defence settlement. The analysis behind the agreement • the so-called Arctic analysis • contains a number of suggestions for strengthening the Ministry of Defence's task solution in the Arctic. The Arctic analysis showed, among other things, that: need a coherent and up-to-date situational picture on land, on water and in the air. The implementation of the Arctic Agreement is still ongoing, but one of the preliminary effects of the implementation of the Arctic analysis is that partial satellite monitoring of areas on the west and east coast of Greenland and on the Faroe Islands has been established. That is why we have now defended access to satellite images from the European Space Agency, ESA, and Europe's maritime safety organisation EMSA, which among other things. used for oil warning. The defence also has access to satellite data with ship positions in the waters of Greenland and the Faroe Islands. Overall, satellite monitoring has strengthened Defence's ability to monitor significant parts of the waters of Greenland and the Faroe Islands, including Arctic Command's access to Air Greenland's electronic position reporting system, which also helps to strengthen the construction of the situation picture. Cooperation has also been established with Canada, the United States and Iceland on the exchange of airspace surveillance data and maritime data. This means that we now have access to classified airspace data from Iceland and unclassified maritime data from Canada. In this way, we have strengthened the defence capabilities to build a much better situational picture in the Arctic region. In particular, the ability to monitor the waters of Greenland and the Faroe Islands has increased, but we are not in target, and efforts are still being made to establish additional satellite monitoring and access to airspace data from other Allied nations. Monitoring opportunities are also strengthened by the increased presence of defence ships and aircraft. Therefore, the number of days that can be drawn on a surveillance aircraft in the Arctic region has almost doubled from 120 days to 220 days. And the goal is to increase that figure to 365 days over the coming years. During periods we also have a frigate in the area, and we will hire more people for the inspection ships, which among other things. claims Danish sovereignty and carries out rescue operations at sea. In addition, we are building a capacity to monitor submarine activity, and in September we concluded an agreement with Greenland on the continued use of Kangerlussuaq airport by the defence. We did so because the defence aircraft must always be available, and this creates the best conditions for the weather conditions at the airport. In addition to the many things that are already under way, the government has proposed to spend 1.5 billion. kr. to strengthen Defence capabilities in the Arctic and the North Atlantic even more. It is done in full understanding with Greenland and the Faroe Islands. As the Prime Minister mentioned, we see signs of new power dynamics in the region... this is also shown by the recent risk assessment by the Defence Intelligence Service... and we see increased military build-up that can lead to an increased level of tension in the region. Together with the Greenlanders, we have a desire for continued low-voltage, and it is in that light that we increase our presence and increase our monitoring; that is the 1.5 billion. kr. Go on. No decision has yet been taken on the specific capacities to be invested in. We will discuss this in the defence circle with the involvement of Greenland and the Faroe Islands and also with our close allies, including the United States. But it will be within, among other things. airspace monitoring, satellite monitoring, submarine activity monitoring and enhanced communication lines. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217134223	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217134226	Thank you. I just have two quick questions. One relates to the security clearance I mentioned in my explanatory statement, that is to say that the Danish ministers who have sensitive matters to deal with have security clearance. The same is not the case, as I see it, for Greenland and Faroese ministers. Wasn't it an idea to get it done? Then I'll ask about the conscription. In our year 2019, soon 2020, it seems strange that we still have such old ideas that young Greenlanders and young convicts should not serve their military service. I think that we should make it an entirely natural part of an overall defence if we are to have it within the Kingdom community. It is therefore the question of security clearance of ministers and the question of the introduction of military service. I must say that I am actually satisfied with some of the figures that have been for the Day of Defence, in Greenland in particular, how many have volunteered; but I remember that during my own military service there were far more boats from Greenland and from the Faroe Islands than there are today.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217134326	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217134328	First for this security clearance thing. As I have been told, Danish ministers are not really so about military service. I believe that with military service we can offer Greenlandic young people a very good education, while at the same time giving us the opportunity to strengthen our presence with those who have a local knowledge. So I certainly think it is a clue that is worth pursuing. We see that, after we have extended the military test and the Day of Defence to several places in Greenland, there is in fact a very great interest in applying for military service and becoming a military service. In the long run, I would like us to also be able to offer parts of the education in Greenland, because I think that would give an even greater number. I have also been thinking about cybercrime, which I believe could also be widely disseminated in Greenland. I believe that when there are 30 degrees, you can understand that there are some that are going to be very good at operating a computer and being a gamer, and we actually need those competences in defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217134451	Then it's mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217134455	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Secretary of Defense. After all, the Secretary of Defense himself mentioned those 1.5 billion. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his reply. Can you go into a little more detail as to when the rest of the defence committee will be involved in this work? Because I have been given the impression that the only thing we have been informed about so far is what is actually in newspaper headlines. That is why I expect that what has been the norm under previous governments, namely that of course we should ensure that defence committees are involved at a very different level from what has been done so far, is what will happen in the future. So when can the line of defense start to get involved around this 1.5 billion? kr. that you're already out selling in different places?
ParlaMint-DK_20191217134536	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217134539	But the defense committee was informed of the desire to strengthen efforts in the Arctic through the 1.5 billion. kr., before they were brought to the NATO Summit. It is the idea that we will be discussing it in the new year. I do not think that we will get it all in place with a meeting, nor with two meetings, but that the process will be started in the new year and that the conciliation circle will, of course, be in the beginning and will also be in the process. However, there are many stakeholders that need to be involved, and that is why I think the important thing is that we get invested in the right capacities, which also have a longer-term objective, and that we do so in good dialogue with Greenland and the Faroe Islands, but also with our partners. For 1.5 billion. kr. is not much money, in all modesty, when it comes to strengthening efforts, which is why it is of course important that we do so in dialogue with, among others. The Americans.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217134641	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217134645	Thank you. In other words, if Denmark, with its defence, were to secure sovereignty for the whole of Europe some way down the desert in Africa, then most would laugh at us. But that is the case. So, Greenland fills from Oslo down to the Sahara, from north to south. And if you say that this is 1.5 million. First of all, you help make it uncertain for the Greenlanders, because when there is a new radar and when there are bombers in Kangerlussuaq permanently, you are a bomb target for those who do not like us. And therefore: Have the Greenlanders had any influence on those decisions? That's one thing. And the second thing is: would it not be more sensible to use the capacity of the defence for civilian security, what is so much needed? I would just like to mention that we have not yet delivered the charts we have promised. We have a major problem if someone is suddenly in distress and so on. etc. Not to mention the major problems that can arise if the climate develops as we may fear.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217134747	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217134754	I almost thought I heard Enhedslisten argue that we should have a larger Danish defence. That's 1.5 billion. kr., we use, and I actually very much agree with the consideration that is about dual use or dual use. After all, these monitoring capacities have a dual-use objective and can therefore contribute in several places. If the lake is missing, they can be used for sea rescue, and in relation to air traffic it is quite important to have a better overview of both surveillance and communication. So I actually think that most of the initiatives that have been put on the table are precisely this civilian aim.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217134845	Thank you. And then it's sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217134850	Thank you for your statement. It's mostly a clear question, because I don't think we heard so much about the Navy. Global warming also means more maritime traffic, both civil and military; it becomes less dangerous to sail in Greenlandic waters. What is the thinking of the Ministry of Defence regarding the expansion of the Navy?
ParlaMint-DK_20191217134914	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217134916	Well, the Navy, like the other operational units of the defense, must become significantly larger in the years to come. And that's because the assignments are getting more and more, not least in the Arctic, where we have already significantly increased our presence over recent years. It has happened through changing governments. So we're gonna have to recruit significantly more people to the Navy, and that's why I think it's so important that we get native Greenlanders on the team. They can do something other than if you are trained in Danish waters. They can smell the ice in a completely different way, which is why I think it is important that recruitment efforts become significantly stronger in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217135003	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217135007	Thank you very much. And also thank you for your statement. I would like to start by commending the Minister for Defence for the involvement of Greenland. At any rate, I think we have seen a significantly greater involvement, and that is right, very positive. I would also like to pay tribute to this initiative, which has also been supported by the IA, namely that there will be more conscripts from Greenland. After all, my daughter has served her own military service, and I know more in my company whose children are also engaged in or are about to serve as conscripts. So it's very positive. The big question in relation to the Arctic and the defence of the Arctic is: are we able to keep the Arctic peaceful? And you could say that these 1.5 billion. kr., which is being set aside, helps to ensure that we strengthen the monitoring. But is that enough? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217135052	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217135054	It is certainly a step in the right direction and also a good idea that we cannot do it alone. We need to work with our allies. I mentioned cooperation with Canada, the United States and Iceland on the exchange of information, and that is, after all, a very good picture of what we need to do in the future, and something that is also essential, I think. There's no reason why everyone sits and provides these data when we actually trust each other. So I don't think it's gonna stop with the 1.5 billion. kr., if we look at the very long perspective, i.e. when we take out the very large crystal ball and look far into the future. However, an important part of the solution is also cooperation with those in whom we trust and trust and who are also present in the area.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217135149	Thank you. There are no more questions for the Minister for Defence, so we now move on to the debate and therefore also to the general rules for short remarks. It is first the rapporteur for the questioners, sir. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217135210	Thank you. When Denmark creates a consulate in one of the world's major cities, it is for the purpose of fertilizing the land for increasing Danish exports to this city, but when the United States establishes a consulate in Nuuk, it is said to be for the purpose of fertilizing the land for increasing Greenlandic exports to the United States. It is the inverted world completely, in fact, I have never heard of anything like it. And you have to understand that the Americans have decided to open the office with the aim of helping Greenland. That's nice of the United States. However, I have to say that if someone offers to help Denmark completely unsolicited, we will probably receive the offer with a certain reservation. And I would also like to say that if the United States intends to help Greenland, it must be because the United States believes that Greenland needs help. It is also a good question: does Greenland need help? When the U.S. then in the middle of all this help sends an offer to Denmark to buy the nicely large island with its own polar bears, reindeer, seals, sledgedogs and people, yes, then you wonder and think with horror back to a completely different age, where we Danes too simply traded with people, but we will never have that time again. The American interest in taking over Greenland is not new. Changing US ambassadors have prepared for the day when Greenland declares itself independent, so that the United States could at the same time move into the island. For years, actually since the adoption of the Law of Self-Government, Greenlandic politicians have been travelling at home in Washington at an invitation from the United States, and they are still doing so away. In this way, I do not want to blame the United States on this issue, because, from their point of view, what they are doing is really just due diligence. On the other hand, my criticism is directed partly at the Greenlandic politicians, who in these years are playing an inconvenient double game, partly against many Danish politicians, who, out of a pure fear of touch and fear of being colonial, have allowed relations with Denmark to drift around for weather and wind, by never making demands, never saying no, never raising criticism, never participating and never asking: what can Greenland do for the kingdom community? What can Greenland do for NATO? It was one of Siumut's ideologists, Lars Emil Johansen, former MP, who said 15 years ago that the day when Greenland became independent, an agreement would be reached with the United States for the protection and surveillance of Greenland's territory immediately. I replied to him that there was no doubt that the United States would accept it right away. What I really liked about Lars Emil Johansen was that he never for a moment tried to hide his intentions in contrast to some Greenlandic politicians today. It is not fair that we in the Folketing and in the government work in every way to meet every Greenlandic demand, and that we try again and again to strengthen the Kingdom community, while some Greenlandic country politicians seem indifferent. I think it's a double game, and I think it should be stopped. I think that Greenland should clearly choose its side so that we can all move on: Is Greenland's future with Denmark or with the United States? Finally, I would like to say that we in the Danish People's Party have chosen to vote in favour of the broad majority of the Danish Parliament. As I said in my explanatory statement, what is our purpose in this debate is precisely to strengthen the Kingdom community, and we do so by consensus. I was very pleased with the statement by the Foreign Minister about having a confidential forum where you work more together on some common path, so you avoid all these many misunderstandings, which I think we have run into many, many of us especially during the period we have just been through. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217135645	Thank you. Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217135655	Thank you very much. Thank you, too, for raising the debate in this Chamber. After all, there are many elements that can be discussed. I just find it difficult to have a discussion when, like the rapporteur, you talk about some I think it is a little difficult to take the debate on that, because it is a little difficult to understand whether it is a question of some particular parties or some special people. Who is it that the Danish People's Party really thinks about when you talk about some Thanks?
ParlaMint-DK_20191217135725	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217135727	Yeah, I'd like to answer that. That was not my idea in this way of mentioning names, but I will then allow myself to do so here when I am even asked about it. I have mentioned a member of the local government, Vitus Quijaukitsoq, who, in my view, is so arrogant that he does not even want to tell us where he is going, who he is meeting with, and what the subject is. It would not have happened in this House if it had happened, in other words his refusal to tell us what his discussions with the Americans have been during many of the journeys he has been on the journey not even the purpose of the travels I have been able to get informed. I do not know whether they have asked about it in the Landsting. But he's definitely one of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217135815	There will then be no further brief comments, and then we will move on to Mrs Annette Lind, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217135826	Thank you for that, President. It is rare that so many from the same party are allowed to express their policy in the same debate. I now come as rapporteur after a number of ministers. We are very pleased with our cooperation in the Kingdom Community, and we also want to see it much, much closer. We would love to see it between Denmark, Greenland and the Faroe Islands, but we would also like to see closer cooperation between the United States and the Kingdom Community. Cooperation must be based on trust and mutual respect and equality, as the Prime Minister said. We have also written this in our understanding paper when the government was formed. The close and trust-based cooperation led by our ministers is very good. The Foreign Minister told me that he has been in the United States with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Ane Lone Bagger, from Greenland, and I think that is a very good way to get the Kingdom community on the world map. Our Prime Minister and other ministers are also taking the lead, and I think this is a right direction, and I think it is good for our Kingdom community that we can attend meetings together, but of course it must also be the case that Danish ministers can hold meetings alone. As will also appear in the proposal for adoption, Denmark and the United States are closest allies in security policy matters. We therefore also welcome an increasing American interest in Greenland, because a greater commitment by the Americans has actually been sought after. The increased trade between Greenland and the United States must be supported by sustainable economic development. It must be the case that it should be mutual between the United States and Denmark and mutual between the United States and Greenland. That is why we must also ensure constructive dialogue when we then have to create a new service contract for Thulebasen. It is important for us that the American commitment should yield a positive return for Greenland, and the presence of the Americans must contribute to Greenlandic society, for it must be profitable both ways and not just one way, but apply to both countries. The Arctic fills much more in the big political agenda. We have heard all the ministers say that there is an increased interest. Therefore, it is also the case that we need to increase our monitoring and enforcement of sovereignty. The Secretary of Defense has told us how the 1.5 billion. kr. I would therefore not like to go into this further. Finally, I would like to say that defensive measures must also be looked at, because here too we have a very central body, the Arctic Council, and although the security policy has been specifically chosen by the Arctic Council, it contributes to cooperation in relation to the low-voltage objective. So all in all, I think we should strengthen cooperation. I was glad that Mr. Søren Espersen said that this debate has come because you want to strengthen the kingdom, and I think that was really, really, very well said. So thank you for letting us discuss this. This must, of course, be done in a trusting tone between the countries of the Kingdom, Denmark, Greenland and the Faroe Islands. Finally, I would like to read out a proposal for adoption. I am very pleased with the very broad support for the proposal, and it is on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the SF, the Radical Left, the Left, the Conservative People's Party, the Danish People's Party, the New Civil, Liberal Alliance and all four North Atlantic parties, IA, Siumut, Javnaðar-flockkurin and Sambandsflockkurin, I would like to make the following: The proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament finds that the Arctic is marked by new great power competition, and notes in this respect that the United States is the most dense ally of the kingdom. The Danish Parliament welcomes the growing American interest in Greenland and supports the government's efforts, together with Naalaksuisut, to ensure that interest benefits Greenland and the Greenlandic people. The Danish Parliament notes that Greenland, like the Faroe Islands, can meet with international partners in acquired areas and that the national authorities are competent to implement the Kingdom's foreign, security and defence policy, as discussions of particular importance for Greenland are to be conducted in close coordination with Greenland as required by the Act of Self-Government. The Danish Parliament considers that there is a need to strengthen the defence's task solution in the Arctic and the North Atlantic. The Folketing considers it necessary to establish an investment screening scheme to screen for possible safety risks and to ensure that all three parts of the empire are covered. The Folketing considers that cooperation in the Kingdom community should be based on trust and mutual respect. • V 38). Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217140331	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Just a moment: the rapporteur has to stay on the floor, because we need to make a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217140339	Yeah, well, I'd like to ask if the colleague accepts any questions. Bring it on! ) This is what is called low-voltage. The Ilulissat agreement, which regulates how we should work together in the Arctic, says that we should work for low-voltage. It is also mentioned here, but in the same speech several ministers are also saying that we need 1.5 billion. kr., among others. for the fighters to be permanent in Greenland. It is also being said that the Americans must enter and have some influence and opportunity to use the new airports down there. I would just like to ask: is there not a contradiction between talking about using more military force in Greenland and talking about low-voltage? How are we supposed to signal to others that we mean low-voltage?
ParlaMint-DK_20191217140428	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217140430	As far as I understood, the questioner said it was because the 1.5 billion. kr. should include fighter planes. It's not supposed to be like that. And this whole thing about there having to be a discussion about the 1.5 billion. kr., I think it's quite common, because you have to discuss it in the defense circle. But it is the case that when there is increased interest in security policy in Greenland and in the Arctic, it is of course also necessary to enforce sovereignty. And we need to have some more tools to do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217140505	Thank you. Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217140506	Then I'm curious what kind of planes the Secretary of Defense was talking about... she wants in Kangerlussuaq. It could be nice if it were helicopters or some other aircraft that could be used civilianly, because the fighters couldn't. What's gonna happen up there? The 1.5 billion. kr. I don't imagine it will be given to the Greenlanders. Is it not a good idea that it is primarily the Greenlanders who are talking about this conciliation about spending 1.5 billion? kr. More? We have seen what happens when, over the heads of the Greenlanders, you decide things and things, for example. the 30 bases that were up there without the Greenlanders ever having an influence on them. Now they just have to live with the pollution in those places up there.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217140546	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217140547	As far as I heard the Secretary of Defense, she said overflights. She didn't say anything with fighter planes compared to this. It's like I'm quite sure it can be a lot of different things, but it's not necessarily fighter planes that are in this. If it were now the case that I could have finished my speech, I would have said that there is a need to strengthen the defence solution in the Arctic and the North Atlantic to ensure stability, security and security in the region. After all, the Kingdom has a great interest in being present in the Arctic and strengthening sovereignty enforcement, so we have to. That is why it is also important to take care of your own territory by creating increased surveillance when there is increased activity, because no one wants armament. But it's important to know what's going on. I was gonna say that. But I actually thought that the Secretary of Defense had made a fine speech about this 1.5 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217140639	Thank you. Then there are no more questions. We move on to Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217140653	Thank you for that, President. And also thanks to the Danish People's Party for raising the question debate, which is absolutely topical and not least very interesting, and which I actually think signals a little of the new style we have got in the field of foreign policy, where we are discussing more and more the Arctic and Arctic relations. After all, there were probably many of us who took us to our head when suddenly we heard the President of the United States stand and say that he wanted to buy Greenland. When we then fell down again and found out that it wasn't one of his attempts to joke on Twitter, but that he really meant it, we discovered some of what I can at least say for myself was a wakeup call, namely that we should in any case prioritise the Kingdom community significantly more than we might have done in the past. In fact, I also believe that now, within the entire kingdom, there has also been a recognition that we are totally at the forefront of the geopolitical power game that is taking place between Russia and China on the one hand and the United States on the other. There we in the Left fully agree that we must do everything we can to ensure that both the Kingdom community is strengthened and that there is a close link between all three countries, but at the same time we should not be naive. We will also have to recognise that we have come into a situation in which the Kingdom has become very interesting, not least for some countries such as the United Kingdom. Russia and China. That is why I am very pleased that we have already been able to talk about this screening scheme, which, at least on the Left side, is quite topical, and hopefully also something that the government will take the initiative for negotiations on very, very soon because we think it is important. And when we talk about critical infrastructure in the kingdom of ports, airports, telecommunications networks, it is therefore important that we get the safety assessments before we just say yes to different investments. In addition, it is also very topical that we also secure the defence of the whole kingdom. I have mentioned this in the past, and I also think that some of the ministers mentioned it, namely that we really do not have the overview of East Greenland in particular and elsewhere that we really should have. And even if you can sometimes get a little dicked up about the US ambassador in Denmark and her statements, the ambassador is right that we should go in and invest significantly more in relation to the defence of the Arctic. That is why, at any rate, this is something that we in the Left will clearly play a part in the defence conciliation negotiations, which hopefully will start very soon in the new year, for example. on how and how they there 1.5 billion. kr. must be used. In addition, it is also the case that we are forced to find out how we act in a world in which, for example, we act. A country like the United States, but expectably also countries such as Russia and China will be involved in, we should call it internal relations in, for example, Russia and China. Greenland, Faroe Islands and Denmark. There, at least, we in the Left can strongly appeal to all three governments, but also to the three parliaments, to have closer and closer cooperation than we may have had so far. My good colleague from the Danish People's Party, Mr. Søren Espersen, earlier today, suggested that we should have a topical item on the agenda for all future meetings of the board dealing with the Arctic. It could be an idea. It could also be that we simply have more quarterly meetings with parliaments in both Greenland and the Faroe Islands. It could be a lot of different things. But on the Left side, we welcome it all in all, that we, too, from the Folketing, are increasingly focusing on ensuring that the whole kingdom acts as stable as possible in this world, we must say very unstable world, and that at the same time we are not too naive and therefore also ensure the necessary defence, but that we also stick to the fact that when it comes to foreign policy and security policy, it is still Denmark that acts on behalf of the whole kingdom in close cooperation with the governments of Greenland and the Faroe Islands. I think that was the comment from this point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217141118	Thank you. Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217141121	Thank you very much. Thank you for your speech, too. Well, we kind of support the Left's desire that we take the Arctic more up in the Foreign Policy Name. Of course, this also presupposes that the North Atlantic members have a place in the list. Nothing about us without us is a principle that we work on in relation to foreign and security policy. One issue that at home in Greenland is a challenge is that Naalaksuisut gets information from the Danish government, but does not choose to share it with Inatsisartut and our Foreign and Security Policy Committee. So a question which one also has to deal with is: how can one ensure that one gets the right information all the way around, and that one also sits at the table when Greenland is discussed? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217141204	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217141205	Well, thank you. And yes, of course it takes a presence to have a debate; I agree with that. In addition to that, however, I think it is very important that we try to do it as a debate from colleague to colleague. So I think that we should try to put this more on the agenda and perhaps formalise it. At least that's something we think could be really exciting.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217141229	Thank you. Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217141231	Thank you very much. After all, some of the information is confidential, and it cannot be taken from colleague to colleague alone. So I want to hear whether the Left supports the fact that North Atlantic Members will be given a firm place in the Foreign Policy Name. One possibility was to extend the number of members of the Foreign Policy Group.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217141249	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217141250	Now I can only speak for myself, and therefore also as part of the blue electoral group, and say that we have gone ahead and have, unfortunately, given one of the blue members of the North Atlantic mandates that are in the blue electoral group, namely Mr. Edmund Joensen, a permanent place in the Foreign Policy Name. So my appeal to the Red Election Group can only be that there is a little control over it too. At least I would recommend that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217141312	Thank you. Let's move on. Sir. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217141326	Thanks to the Danish People's Party for raising this exciting query debate. It is not always the case that we in the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left agree on a great deal, but the interest which Mr. Søren Espersen has great respect for the Greenlandic and Arctic conditions, even though we sometimes come to different conclusions, and this debate is extremely important. I do not think I am the only one to hear that from the rapporteurs today who feel a little bit that the tectonic records in geopolitics are moving a little over these months. The new multipolar world order system, which is beginning to emerge here, where China, India and other great powers are growing on the international stage and are growing in both economic and military strength, is now also passing through our latitudes and thus also the reaction that comes from the world's overriding superpower, the United States, and our position as a small-put state in this context, but of course as great power when it comes to the Arctic, the Quarter Community and Greenland and the Faroe Islands and Denmark's overall weight. It is of course an incredibly important question how we put ourselves in the new development, because we are helping to create the future that we are becoming a part of here. It can be said in this way that none of the big states can tolerate either the United States or China or Russia, that one of the others gets such ultimate domination in this area, and it is perhaps the chance for such small states as us that we can then balance, although of course we have allies and non-alies and our own interests to take care of. On the radical side, and this is the most important point today, I believe that a great deal needs to be distinguished when we talk about purely defence policy initiatives and our relationship with the United States in this respect, and when we talk about economic policy and the overall political approach to the area. As far as defence policy is concerned, I believe that we are facing a future where there is an increased need for greater monitoring, because what the Americans call situational awareness, that is to say to be able to keep an eye on what is happening in our areas, and I think it is an independent point that Denmark and Norway will have to play an important role in strengthening it. But I also think it is important that it is Denmark and here I am thinking of the Kingdom of Denmark and Norway, and not NATO, for example. must enter and do surveillance in the Strait of Denmark. That is an independent point, and I also hear that that is what we are talking about, because it helps to keep the low voltage in the area. Everyone recognises that Denmark and Norway have a legitimate justification, both civilly and militaryly, for increased preparedness and monitoring, and this double effect of getting more surveillance and preparedness in the area is exactly the same as Russia stands on, and I think that is important for us to stand on, and it is a nuance that it is Denmark and Norway and not NATO as an institution that is developing it, and I therefore hope that one of the three ministers will confirm that is what we are thinking. At least that's how I hear the Americans. As far as the economy is concerned, this is a slightly different sphere, because in principle, I hear the Greenlanders being interested in all the investments from all good partners, including the Americans, but also the Chinese, the Russians and, I hope, the Danes. I would like to say here that what must be our common interest in my glasses must of course be to create a transparent culture of investment in which everyone can assert themselves, but where the critical infrastructure lies in the state, that is. the hands of the kingdom, but where everything else can, in turn, be part of the international economy, which is governed by general multilateral rules. We have an interest in this and, in this context, I believe that we have a separate interest in bringing Europe more into play, both with investment and with the climate and environmental policy that Europe is largely the only one to pursue, when one looks at the great powers of the world and where Europe, as the world's largest commercial power, has quite a strong influence. I think we will need this as a backrest for the development we are experiencing up there, and I think that Greenland and the Faroe Islands also need that backrest together with Denmark. That is why it will be my strong call to the government, when working with the Arctic strategy, to think about Europe, including in the great global geopolitical perspective that I started by mentioning. Because I think it will be quite crucial for the whole Kingdom community that Europe should become one of the poles that stand independently when the new multipolar world order is once emptied. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217141825	Thank you. There is one point I should like to make. Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217141829	Thank you very much, and thank you for your speech. It is said at global level that the Chinese do not talk as much as they act quietly. The rest of the world is talking, but they may not be doing much. This is quite interesting, but recently we received some information that Chinese people also want to create a consulate in Nuuk. In any case, this is new information that we have not had knowledge of in the past. It is super interesting to know a little more about how the Chinese will act in Greenland, especially with the pressure that has been on the American side. For there is no doubt that there is also a trade war at stake between the United States and China. So I do not know if the rapporteur might have any more information, but at least that is an angle that we have not been aware of in the past and which I hope Parliament will pay more attention to in the future: how the Chinese act in the Arctic.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217141923	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217141924	I think that is very good advice from Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen here. I don't know if the Chinese are planning a consulate. It might not surprise me completely, but I have not heard anything about it. It can be said in this way that the way in which the Chinese approach it, at least has done so up to now, is a lot about using the economy as an instrument of action, and they do so in many parts of the world and in a perfectly legal way. What we must, of course, be extremely aware of in this context is that where some investments are undoubtedly of benefit and benefit to the communities in which they are invested, we have also seen around the world that there were some investments that were of less benefit and happiness, because there were some built-in clauses in the investments that made it difficult subsequently to maintain complete control over what had been invested in. So you have to think, but China is a country that is not bypassed in the future. There is no doubt about that, and that is the way they must be dealt with.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217142024	Thank you. Then there are no further comments, so that is Mr. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217142036	It's nice when the United States shows interest in Greenland. I think they are very welcome to offer cultural exchanges, educational programmes and so on. But do you think that interest is only that loving and self - sacrificing? When interest comes from a country where all sentences both start and end with America first, yes, I think there is reason for us to maintain our healthy scepticism. To believe that only the warm heart beats in the United States fits very well into the season and can almost be compared to believing in Santa Claus and the gnome shop, which produces gifts for all the children in the world. Great power rivalry again shows the importance of strong alliances, especially for small countries such as Greenland, the Faroe Islands and Denmark, and the kingdom community is and must be allied with the NATO countries. The American consulate in Nuuk is fine, but I think that in other areas the United States behaves like a buffalo in a glass shop. I think it is quite unseen when a near ally is obviously puffing into a possible disagreement in the Kingdom community. Nowhere does it belong that the United States is looking for cracks where they can knock wedges between the parts of our kingdom community. The proclamations come from Trump, but of course from his handler in this country. There is no doubt about Ambassador Carla Sands' qualifications: 1) to have a lot of money, 2) to spend a lot of this money to strengthen Trump's election campaign, 3) always in both content and style to be Trump in disguise, 4) to so much to live Trump's trade gene out, when the ambassador tries to be a mediator in military hardware and in this respect of course wants to sell even more to Denmark, as she, incidentally, seems to me, to be completely diplomatically criticizing for not spending enough on the military. I think the ambassador should keep his hands off concrete Danish politics, including procurement. The fact that Carla Sands believes that sovereignty enforcement over East Greenland can be handled with some overflights reveals that there are virtually no gaps in the ignorance of Greenland. I think it is a good idea that the conciliation parties around the defence, of which SF is not part, in the budget will strengthen Denmark's physical presence by 1.5 billion. kr. However, Denmark must also equip the environment, and we can do this both by contributing internationally and by increasing the monitoring of climate change itself and their consequences. I mean, it could be one of those things. be through a new marine research ship, as the present 38-year-old Dana is about to be scrapped in a few years' time. It is no good for Denmark to get into a situation where we are left without a ship that can be used in ice-filled waters, so that we are thus unable to contribute to the research in the North Atlantic. The SF is very much in favour of arming in the Arctic, but especially in the most important battle of the time, namely the fight against climate change.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217142430	Thank you. There is one point I should like to make. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217142433	Thank you for that, President. I noticed that the rapporteur used the expression that the United States is kicking into our Kingdom community. Then I immediately went in and looked at the Socialist People's Party's website and there one prides itself on being the banners of independence movements. So, one would like to bear for independence for both Greenland and the Faroe Islands, and I cannot get that going up. I cannot get the two things together, because the fact that there are people in Denmark who advocate independence is because what encourages President Trump, on whom the rapporteur seems to have little enthusiasm, is precisely to make this rapprochement. So if now the Socialist People's Party wanted to talk the Kingdom community up on its website instead of talking about independence, it might be that Trump stayed home in Westernland. Has the rapporteur considered this?
ParlaMint-DK_20191217142527	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217142529	I would say that if there is nothing more to be done than that we revise a little on our website in order for Trump to be frightened, then I have to go home and think about it. I think there's more to it. I think the difference here compared to Mr. Knox. Morten Messerschmidt is that I don't see the kingdom community as a static size. The Kingdom community is not in a certain way forever. This is something that is moving, and what we are looking for is what we sometimes call the Commonwealth version 2, where we see three independent countries within a kingdom community where we have chosen each other for, and where it is not a fixed box that you are down in, but one that you build and change on. That is why I think that if the Greenlanders have a desire for independence, it is our job to help them out and do so in a way that the Greenlanders themselves choose the Kingdom Community for themselves, even in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217142618	Here you go, sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217142620	Well, I just don't understand. Do we not, just as children of the same historical community, have a duty to help and assist each other on the basis of the realistic conditions that are now in force? We have the task of making clear to the Greenlanders and the Faroes how valuable the Kingdom is to all of us. This is not done simply by talking some illusion about a potential future project of independence. This is done by emphasising all the historical, economic, social and cultural things we have in common and talking it out. And there I have to say that I still believe that the Danes and, for that matter, President Trump have the benefit of seeing the contribution of the Socialist People's Party to that speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217142657	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217142658	Well, I don't disagree with sir. Morten Messerschmidt in that we must speak up the kingdom community and speak up the values that hold us together. I just think we can do this while helping people along the path of increased autonomy. I really do not see a contradiction there. On the contrary, I actually think that if you cling to the fact that it has to be in a certain way, you could just dispel these people. However, I would like to confirm that I also find that some Greenlandic politicians have a mention of nationalism, which is the Danish People's Party twice.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217142731	Thank you. Sir. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217142735	Thank you for your regards. I will continue with that, sir. Morten Messerschmidt said, in other words, that the SF should encourage independence, would like to ask whether the SF's rapporteur can confirm that the moment the Danish fleet sails home, it is the American fleet that moves in. Doesn't he feel like he's here? Karsten Hønge not a co-responsibility for it by constantly helping with independence rather than finding some explanations as to why we should stick together?
ParlaMint-DK_20191217142809	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217142810	For me it is not the case that we have independence here I really hope with all my heart that the Greenlanders and the Faroes choose the kingdom community, and that is why I believe that we should all become more capable here of forming the kingdom community in a way that makes it appealing so that one can see oneself in it, so that one can see oneself both as people and as a nation, but in a cooperation, a close cooperation, with two other nations. And I think that is what we need to do instead of insisting that the Greenlanders and the Faroese should go in and take a position in a very specific way. I believe that we can have a much more independent Greenland and the Faroe Islands, while at the same time being in close cooperation with Denmark. But by the way, I see the very people in Greenland with whom SF works, speaking for the Kingdom community.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217142905	Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217142906	Well, I don't understand that argument. So, independence is an absolute one, either you are independent or you are not. And it may be that you can be in different degrees, I do not know, but you are at least self-employed, is an independent country with an independent government, an independent, well-defined border. After all, there is no kingdom community if Greenland declares itself to be an independent country. Then it's over with the kingdom community. Then it's over with all the things that bind us together. And it's gonna happen pretty fast. We also heard the former Prime Minister Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen says publicly that the moment Greenland adopts a referendum on independence, the Kingdom community is per. definition a completed thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217142951	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217142953	I do not quite have the need to delineate and delineate and say what cannot be done. I think it would be an accident for Denmark, and I think it would certainly be an accident for the people of Greenland, who have plenty of problems to struggle with, to choose a purely autonomous path. And speaking of the United States, I would say that Greenland is a more socially unequal society than the American one. So there are massive social and economic problems in Greenland. So, as I said, it would be an accident for the people of Greenland to choose a purely autonomous path. I think it would also be an accident for Denmark. In fact, I believe that the solution lies in an upgrade of the Kingdom community, where you see nations leaning on each other and getting more out of the community than walking alone.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217143031	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217143046	Thank you. The struggle for world domination has often been waged through wars and quite bloody wars and quite extensive wars throughout history. And right now the battle is so economic and military between the United States and China and a little bit of Russia that has not got used to being a little brother and is far from being an economic or military major power. China researches and invests in the Arctic; Russia has the best icebreakers and they move their military up there; the United States is behind and looking for places that they can buy to get more space in the Arctic. Their icebreakers are temporarily out of function because they are not used to working very much in that area. That is why we must always bear in mind, if there is a shift in the fight for world domination, that it will in any case take place without military interference, but through the principles of the Ilulissat Declaration, for example. states that we are working together at a low-voltage level, that this is how we let international organisations settle disputes, for example. on the continental shelf and that we both act and speak in the same way. When we say low-voltage, we mean low-voltage; then we don't mean yes, we talk about low-voltage, but we send some more planes up there and we upgrade militaryly. By the way, the United States does so in Pituffik without asking anyone for permission to do so, even though we have an agreement with the United States to negotiate exactly when there is a change of system on Pituffik. By the way, they could also start by cleaning up their old bases if they finally had a love for Greenland, or for example. ensure that the Pituffik base also benefited the Greenlanders. After all, we saw how cynically they themselves took over the service agreements and transport up to the base and so on. I believe that if we mean low-voltage, then we must also show that we are implementing low-voltage because otherwise nobody believes in it and then the spiral is in motion. The second principle of the Ilulissat agreement is that this must take account of the people living in the Arctic. And it is almost the case that sometimes, when you hear Danish politicians and also American politicians, you might almost think that it is for the sake of Denmark and for the sake of the United States in particular that the policy must be pursued. However, the Ilulissat Agreement states that through international cooperation and dialogue, the parties will achieve peaceful economic and sustainable development for the benefit of the people of the Arctic on the basis of military détente. Could we not try to say that we start there and then move on from there? Otherwise, we may have some serious problems. Then, of course, we have climate change, and there I have to say that I believe that climate change will dictate foreign and security policy. There will be a lot of new situations and new alliances will be needed across the old alliances. And it is not foreign and security policy that will define or dictate climate change. If we don't face it, we're gonna go totally wrong in this town. That is why I cannot understand why there is not one word in the proposal for adoption made by the majority about climate change, which will so much change things in the Arctic and also in Greenland. The United States will not, as Mr. Karsten Hønge said, come to Greenland to help Greenland. They only come to Greenland because they have strategic interests, and the cheapest and easiest would probably be buying the island. But it didn't work out, so now they're trying to buy the Greenlanders. I hope you won't. And that is why it is important that we help the Greenlanders where we can get to it and stand together to be an equal cooperation on the basis of the Ilulissat Declaration. I would say that the more Greenlanders change their base, and the more Denmark drags military gear up there, the greater the risk of Greenland becoming a bomb target. And that is why it is extremely important that it is the Greenlanders who decide how much military hardware there should be on the island. Then I will go to the Kingdom Community, it is based on the right to independence, if Greenland and the Faroe Islands so wish, the right to take back tasks, and on cooperation also on foreign and security policy. And the acquisition of the marine research ship, as Mr. Karsten Hønge mentioned, I think is a very good idea. I think it's strange that you can't sail on a ship just because it's Russian. But then we could, if Denmark cannot afford it ourselves, acquire a Nordic marine research ship. We have always said that we should work together. Then we might save something; at times it could sail for us, and at times it could sail for others. Then we were beyond that question. But we have to say that we must also keep our promises to the Greenlanders. This is true, for example. our chart and solution to the problem of the Americans on the service agreement. There are unresolved problems, including for the new government, which it inherited from the old one. Let us not get to work on practical things before we start to swing up to the high levels.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217143557	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217143602	Thank you. I must admit that you will be a member of the Enhedslisten in order to understand that I cannot understand that it is surprising when we have a debate on foreign and security policy that we do not then mention the climate in every other sentence. I must admit that, but that is how we are so different. What is Enhedslisten's response to the violent build-up of military force that Russia is doing in the Arctic? Is it just that we are waving an agreement to Russia and saying: hey, we need low voltage etc.? And then turn the other cheek. What exactly is this? Because you can't just believe when there's such a violent build-up of military forces that you just have to say: well, it's gonna be okay anyway. Or what? What is Enhedslisten's answer?
ParlaMint-DK_20191217143654	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217143657	Paragraph 1: I tried to explain to the rapporteur of the Left that the climate is going to define our foreign and security policy. So if you just discuss foreign and security policy in the blue, you won't get very far. You have to acknowledge that there are some existential problems coming on this planet that are going to define it. This means that the foreign and security policy of the old government, which the new government seems to stand for, is not going to strike in the future. Point 2: The fact that the Russians are moving some of their weapons up to the Arctic is nothing new. They have, as long as I've been an adult. And they have been active in the Arctic because it has been a very central area. They may have the best icebreakers in the world. They have the worst policies in the world. And I'm against arming. There is only one answer to that: all disarmaments have started with negotiations, so get started with a dialogue with the Russians to remove those weapons. I would like to recommend to the rapporteur of the Left, for example: starting with the nuclear weapons... it would be a god's happiness for all of us to remove the nuclear weapons on this planet... but at least balanced disarmament and made the Arctic nuclear weapons free.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217143802	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217143804	If we are really going to talk about this, it is Russia that has been involved and has acted directly against some of the current agreements that were made in the past. That's what we're seeing now. Because we're experiencing a Putin who doesn't care about Enhedslisten's old 70s thought that if we just dance around a tree, it'll probably all go together. The situation is, of course, that something is going on here and now, which is so serious that we also have to take it seriously. Therefore, I am just in the situation that one can say enough about the climate playing a role in relation to the opening of sailing lines and the like. I agree with that, but the kingdom is still a member of NATO, and therefore Enhedslisten will also have to take this seriously. That is why we are still missing an answer from the Enhedslisten on what is being done militarily to secure us against the threat that is from Russia.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217143847	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217143849	After all, we cannot talk our way out of the real problems of NATO's biggest partners going alone and saying that it is their interests that are the most important and that everyone else must be in subjection to them. All negotiations, whether they have been in the 1950s, in the 1960s or in the 1970s, as Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen speaks of, has built on the fact that one sat down and negotiated. It has been many years since the last negotiation of disarmament on this planet. Fortunately, we have some old agreements that still apply. Some of them are trying both the Russians and the Americans to run away. But the only way to remove weapons is to negotiate mutual disarmament.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217143930	Then it's mr. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217143931	Thank you. After all, the rapporteur comes from an ideological environment where criticism is absolutely crucial. This is actually a very brief question. Christian Juhl ever criticized Greenland, Greenland politicians, Greenland parliamentarians? When did Mr. Christian Juhl ever made demands on Greenlandic politicians? When did Mr. Christian Juhl ever asked Greenland politicians what Greenland can do for the Kingdom community?
ParlaMint-DK_20191217144004	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217144005	Where I come from, we practice both criticism and self-criticism, and Denmark is allowed to do so too. I sometimes think that could dress the Danish People's Party when we talk about Denmark's efforts. Therefore a recommendation: Self-criticism is really, really good to learn from. Criticism of the Greenlanders I have made several times, for example. as to how the children feel in Greenland. I have discussed this over the last four years, where I have had the chance to visit Greenland and where I have spoken to the present Greenlandic politicians and said so much that this is not possible. That was one of the reasons why we also supported and pressed for the agreements that Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen has made on a first step in strengthening the efforts made towards vulnerable children. That is one concrete example, and I think that should be mentioned first, because I think that is the most important thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217144052	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217144054	But it is also a matter in which we are all very much in agreement, including Greenlandic politicians, who are also sad about what is happening, for example. has taken place in Tasiilaq. That's not what I'm asking. I'm asking you when, sir. Christian Juhl and Enhedslisten have made demands on Greenland for something to be done to support the Kingdom community, or have made a criticism that Greenland does not seem particularly interested in strengthening the Kingdom community. When has that criticism been made except for the unhappy children in Tasiilaq?
ParlaMint-DK_20191217144124	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217144126	For me, it is certainly not something apart from the unhappy children. This is extremely important. This is perhaps the most important place for us to work with Greenland at the moment, and it has not been a matter of course, even since Mr. Søren Espersen had an influence on the previous government. It's not a matter of course that we've got it. That is why I would like to say that this is one area. Another area, of course, is also: why on earth do you not demand that the Americans pay more attention to you when they are allowed to be there? Why don't you charge a rent for Pituffik and stuff like that? I have criticised the Greenlanders for many things, not screaming like Mr. Søren Espersen, but calmly in the conversations that have been, and I think that is about mutual dialogue.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217144208	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Thanks to... Christian Juhl (EL) Sorry, I forgot to read out my proposal for adoption. May I? ) It's okay, it's okay.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217144213	Thank you. It is on behalf of the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, and it says: Proposals for adoption The Kingdom's foreign, security and defence policy are developed and implemented in close coordination between the three countries of the Kingdom Community. Cooperation in the Kingdom community is based on trust and mutual respect. Cooperation in the Arctic shall be based on the principles set out in the 2008 Ilulissat Declaration, where the Parties, through international cooperation and dialogue, achieve peaceful economic and sustainable development for the benefit of the people of the Arctic and on the basis of the Declaration's principle of military low-voltage. The Arctic is a key priority in the Kingdom's climate, foreign, security and defence policy. The government, together with Naalaksuisut, will work to ensure that cooperation with the United States benefits Greenland and the Greenlandic people. Parliament calls on the United States to take responsibility for cleaning up the former US bases in Greenland. The Danish Parliament considers that there is a need to strengthen defence solutions in the Arctic and the North Atlantic, which can strengthen civil social security in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands. • V 39).
ParlaMint-DK_20191217144322	Thank you for that and it will now be included in the further negotiations. We thank the rapporteur and we go to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr Conservatives. Naser Khader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217144332	Thank you to Dansk Folkeparti and Søren Espersen for the question. I think this is an important debate. Thank you to the ministers for their statements. After all, we are debating one of the most important foreign policy areas facing Denmark in the coming years. The development in Greenland and the Arctic has gone from something the United States was not so concerned with, something they were watching for, to something they have become very actively involved in. Interest is very, very growing, not only from the United States, but also from other great powers, China and Russia. This means that we in Denmark must now place even greater emphasis on the Arctic in our foreign policy in the coming years. It is important to maintain the area as a low-voltage area. Nowadays, when you are in the capital of the United States, Washington D.C., and you enter Denmark, it is Greenland and the Arctic that fills the most. I have been told by an American friend following developments that one of the most googled words in the United States, after the President offered to buy Greenland, is Greenland. So he has actually helped put Greenland even more on the world map, and I think that is fine. We in Denmark and the Kingdom Community must keep an eye on this development, because it is of great importance for how we in Denmark should prioritise our resources, both diplomatically and externally, but also in terms of defence in the coming years. I think that in Denmark and Greenland we have been slightly backwards in terms of defence compared to the area. We simply do not know enough about what is happening in the air over Greenland, under the sea, at sea, and we do not have the means to do anything about foreign presence. It is in our interest to be more present in the area. In addition to the strategic interest, the United States also seems to be interested in the resources hiding under Greenland's ice. At any rate, this was something that the US Secretary of State pointed out when he attended the Arctic meeting. There are a lot of resources under the ice that are of interest. The Americans are also aware that they are behind in Greenland, also in relation to China and Russia, and therefore the Americans are pushing for airports to be built with the Danes and not with the Chinese. There is a concern about the Chinese's ability to borrow, to invest and to cooperate with insurance. Some claim that the United States is trying to drive a wedge between Denmark and Greenland to gain more influence in the Arctic through negotiations with Greenland alone. I am glad that the Foreign Minister rejected it in his speech, and I doubt it myself. Speaking to American observers, they also point out that the Americans are aware that the construction of the Kingdom community is also very much in the service of American interests. I do not fear the greater commitment of the Americans. In fact, we have previously called for greater involvement by the United States in the Arctic. We see that commitment now, and it can only be for the benefit of Greenland. But the positive thing about the debate over Greenland and the Arctic in recent months is something that was kick-started by the US President, namely that it has become clearer why we need the Kingdom Community. Greenland and Denmark have a strong common interest in acting together in these matters, because we are individually small players, but when we act together, we do so with greater strength. We Conservatives support the proposal for adoption, which is supported by several parties here in the Danish Parliament, and several of my ideas in the speech are also included in the proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217144744	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and then we go to the alternative rapporteur. It's sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217144752	Thank you. Thank you, sir. Søren Espersen to raise the question. It is, of course, an important discussion, and one can either continue with the very concrete or one can take a spade deeper in the discussion about what is behind it. I really think it is important, every time we talk about security, defence and foreign policy in connection with the Commonwealth, that we actually dare to take the debate on the Commonwealth. I believe that all too often we only relate to the historical part of why we are together in a kingdom community, and not to how we could today develop a modern kingdom community, which is based much more on the time we are living in now, and not just on historical grounds. That is actually what I would like us to spend much more time doing, both between governments, but also between us parliamentarians in the three countries, and to talk about what it is really necessary for us today to be able to make an active choice of a community with each other. At the same time, I also think it is important to remember that several communities can be involved. Denmark does. We are very much part of the European Union and, at the same time, we are part of the Kingdom Community. In the same way, of course, the other two countries in the Kingdom Community must also be able to be in the contexts that they see as a good thing for them. So I see nothing unpleasant or terrible about Greenlandic politicians having discussions with the United States. I would like to warn against it, just as I would do it to any other country, because I think it should be borne in mind that the United States hardly ever has a global outlook when they go into anything, but only think of itself. It is the President's slogan at the moment, and I think we should be aware of that. But again: it is in my optics and in the optics of the alternative that it is up to the Greenlandic parliamentarians and the Greenlandic government. So we think it is much more about how we actually get on with looking at how we work together in the time we live in today, with defence, with security, with foreign policy, because all three of us are getting something out of it because we are getting stronger together. We must, of course, think in terms of climate policy as a whole, because that is what is at the top of the agenda in our time. Earlier, Mr. Søren Espersen, I think it was Enhedslisten's rapporteur that never criticised Greenlandic politicians. At least I would like to mention the Paris Agreement, and I think that a number of Greenlandic politicians will nod to it when I say that I have raised it as a great criticism that it has not yet been chosen to accede to it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217145044	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217145047	When Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist says that you have to lift it up, I would say that there is also something called the real world and what the reality is right now and here. Now I was unable to get an answer from Mr. Karsten Hønge, when I asked about it, but isn't it Mr. Hønge too? Rasmus Nordqvist's view that the moment the Danish fleet sails home, will it be the United States fleet that will patrol the shores of Greenland, whether the Greenlanders like it or not?
ParlaMint-DK_20191217145114	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217145115	I don't think sir. Søren Espersen has heard me talk about the Danish fleet sailing home. I am just talking about how we can form part of a modern kingdom community, where we look each other in the eyes of three independent countries and say: What is it we have to work together? This also applies, of course, when it comes, for example, to the coastguard and the monitoring tasks that need to be carried out. So I'm not talking about anyone having to go anywhere at all. I am talking about developing and adapting our cooperation to the time that we are actually living in today, and not only on the basis of the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217145150	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217145151	The concrete thing is that if Greenland declares its independence, the fleet will sail home. Of course the Navy sails home. We cannot patrol around an independent country that is not Denmark. So we have to say that this is the real world. Can we not also relate to the support given by the people of the Alternative to the idea of independence that there is a price to be paid if you become self-employed? It is among other things that the Navy sails home and the U.S. Navy comes instead. I am not sure that this is a good prey for the Greenlanders, nor am I sure that the U.S. Navy will sail between the municipalities, as is happening in Greenland at the moment, and transport Greenlandic politicians from one place to another. I'm not sure.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217145233	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217145235	Now I belong to the kind of politicians who actually believe that you can talk to each other and figure out how to make agreements together and that you don't just have a crystal ball, like Mr. Søren Espersen apparently has where you can see what everything will look like in the future. After all, this is about dialogue between Denmark, Greenland and the Faroe Islands, and if the Greenlanders want independence, then we have to find out how we can continue to work closely together. But it's not up to us to decide. I think it's about how we meet each other and find out what these are for tasks that need to be solved and how we want to do it together, instead of sitting with some finished little model of how things develop.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217145309	Then it is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217145312	Thank you very much for your speech and also thank you for your vision of the modern kingdom community. After all, we do not necessarily think that we should wait until far into the future, but that we should also now develop the modern kingdom community. We agree with the criticism of the Paris Agreement. We would like Greenland to take the lead. We are both Ground Zero, but as such we are also a window for the Kingdom community in relation to climate change. So there is no doubt about that at all. We would like there to be the Green Kingdom community as part of a climate action plan coming this spring. That is at least one of the things we are working for. Then it can be said that Greenland is both part of the Arctic and part of the Nordic Region, and I fully agree with this about being able to join several different communities. Culturally, purely linguistically, we are more part of the Arctic, but we are also part of the Nordic Region and share some values with the Nordic Region. In fact, I see it as something really positive that you can be in a number of different communities. So I would just like to give clear support to the part of the speech that the rapporteur mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217145408	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217145410	Well, thank you to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, and thank you for your cooperation in general on how we can together think and develop the Kingdom Community. And a great deal of support for us to think our community into the climate action plans to be made in the spring, because I think it is very, very important that we act when we talk climate, both nationally and, of course, in the communities that we are in, which is the Nordic Region, it is the Kingdom Community, and it is the European Union. Of course we should act there. So I very much hope that we can get more.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217145444	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. She's gonna drop out. Then it's mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217145449	Thank you. It may have been a statement from Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist's side is fair enough with that, but Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist said that Greenlandic politicians had to talk to and make agreements with the countries they now wanted. I'm assuming that Mr. Knox... Rasmus Nordqvist acknowledges that the whole kingdom is a member of NATO and that the Constitution quite clearly states that the foreign and security policy is still being handled by the government in Copenhagen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217145513	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217145515	Of course, I am not saying that we should do something that is against any legislation at all. But that's why we can talk about what we think things should be like. And there I think Greenlandic politicians have the right to talk to whoever they want. So it's actually based on how I see things moving, and not on how the rules are today.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217145534	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217145536	I'm glad. But the problem is that we live in a world and in it we have some countries, for example. Russia and China, which act, we must say offensively against the whole kingdom. I'm assuming that Mr. Knox... Rasmus Nordqvist shares the fear that some of those countries will enter strategically and militarily and could be a threat to the whole kingdom. And that's what this is all about. This is among other things. That is why, fortunately, in our broad proposal for adoption, we have also received this screening scheme so that we can be sure that nothing is going to happen that will threaten our safety. I assume that the rapporteur has the same fears as the rest of us in relation to the new world order.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217145609	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217145611	Of course I share that fear, and I also share the fears of a number of countries in the Arctic. Because I think it is against everything else we have agreed with each other. But that also applies to the United States' desire to be more present in military terms. We see an armament right now, which I think is very, very unfortunate in relation to the area we are talking about. I really think that we should put even more effort into cooperation between Denmark and Greenland to get the work done for disarmament, to get the work done for a strengthened diplomacy, because that is what is needed in such a situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217145649	Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217145651	If I sat in Greenland and looked down on Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist and heard the speech he has made here, I would be seriously concerned. Because on the one hand we hear someone who wants to be on the easy wing who says that we are talking about independence, but on the other hand the alternative has no idea at all what it is for a policy to be pursued on the part of our kingdom or on the part of any future independent Greenland. The only thing we hear is that we must seek dialogue and disarmament. But could Mr. Norqvist might then come down to the planet on which the rest of us are located and explain how we are going to achieve the disarmament in the world we are currently seeing? So I think there are a lot of both in this room and also a little northerner in the kingdom who would like to hear that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217145733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217145734	Well, that's one of them. by strengthening the tools that are, which are non-armament. It is about foreign service, it is about diplomacy, it is about working through the international organisations that are. So this is something that is happening on this planet where I'm standing right now, and as far as I can tell, sir. Morten Messerschmidt is exactly the same place.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217145753	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217145755	It seems quite terrifying to imagine that we should be on the same planet, at least in the political sense. Because you cannot imagine anything less friendly to the Greenlandic people in the world we are in now than to wish them independence. How does Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist said that Greenland should enter NATO, in the OECD, in all the organisations that I understand are the ones to facilitate the peaceful and brotherly future, as Mr. Nordqvist sees for himself? How on earth will he ensure that Greenland gets the opportunities to take care of its own interests, so just those opportunities, compared to what they have today as part of our all-out kingdom?
ParlaMint-DK_20191217145832	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217145834	Maybe we're not on the same planet, because at least the questioner isn't listening to what I'm saying up here on this planet. I'm not talking about whether I want independence. I am talking about my wish that it is up to the Greenlanders to decide how they want it. And then I want us to have a conversation together in the community we have, which is the Kingdom Community, about how we see a modern kingdom community; how do we see that it is an option today and not just something we are together in because of historical grounds.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217145903	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217145906	I think this is an interesting debate, and I think that Mr. Karsten Hønge actually gave a good offer, which I completely agree with. I can well imagine another form of community in the future also whether it should be that one or more of the two North Atlantic countries thought they should be self-employed. How does the alternative view a kingdom community with three independent countries if it became reality, i.e. if Greenland or the Faroe Islands thought they wanted to?
ParlaMint-DK_20191217145935	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217145936	I therefore very much welcome the fact that we can of course find out how it is we can work together and find out how to create a community of kingdoms... a modern community of kingdoms... which will be an option. We can also call it something else if that is what is needed. But of course it can consist of both two and three independent countries. It's all about cooperation. It's about finding out where we meet and solve tasks together.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217150002	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl. He's gonna drop out. Then I shall have no further brief comments on the list. We thank the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and that is the rapporteur of the new bourgeoisie, Mr. Peter Seier Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217150015	Thank you for the floor. It is the task of the Danish and Greenlandic politicians to ensure, in close cooperation, a defence of the Danish Empire, both by their own power and in cooperation with our allies, so that our countries can remain free and independent. Denmark is a member of NATO, and that is where our security lies. It is therefore extremely important that we do not ignore or downgrade NATO in favour of other cooperation. The European Union cannot and must never replace North Atlantic cooperation. The United States is our closest ally. The United States is the guarantor of our security and our freedom as an independent country and as a community of states. The Arctic with Greenland is geopolitically and militarily an area of interest to the global powers, and the Arctic is thus marked by a new major power competition. We must note that under Putin's leadership Russia has become more aggressive and expansionist. In the Arctic, Denmark has strong interests that do not coincide with those of Russia. The Danish territories are therefore particularly vulnerable in East Greenland and cannot really be defended or claimed with the current military preparedness. It is only under a NATO umbrella with the United States as a strong partner that we can hope to defend Greenland and our rights in Greenland. A build-up in the Arctic is therefore indispensable. This will be a task which must be coordinated with NATO, not least the United States. In New Citizens we would recommend that the defence of the years to come stay away from international actions which are not directly relevant to mitigate threats to Denmark or which are part of the NATO commitment. Instead, we must concentrate our efforts with NATO and, above all, with the United States, to develop the defence of our territory, with particular reference to the Arctic, which everyone can see will be of increasing importance and which is today open. New citizens therefore welcome the increasing American interest in Greenland. We support the Danish Government working together with the Greenlandic Government to ensure that interest also benefits Greenland and the Greenlandic people. International partners such as the United States are of course welcome to discussions with Greenlandic representatives on themes of particular importance for Greenland in close coordination with Denmark as provided for in the Self-Government Act. New citizens therefore support the discussions between the partners in the United States and Greenland on the basis of the current and decisive principle that the Kingdom Community between Denmark and Greenland remains based on unconditional trust and unbreakable mutual respect. New citizens support the proposed proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217150300	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. We move on to the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Henrik Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217150310	Thank you for a very exciting and long debate. After all, many thought-provoking things have been said about Greenland and the United States, and you are also caught by a certain vanity when you sit and listen to all these things. Then you want to say something that hasn't been said before, and I actually think I've come up with something. One of the issues we have not really discussed yet is real policy. I think that is a pity, because the whole Arctic area is one of the areas of the world that is highly governed by real policy. It was sir. Martin Lidegaard, who traced me to the idea when he said that neither the United States, Russia, nor China can tolerate the other two gaining domination, nor that one party gets the domination; and that is simply what governs the development of the region more than anything else. That is why I think it is a little too bad that we have a debate in the Danish Parliament about the United States, Greenland and Denmark, without anyone mentioning it and I know that you can't swear on Parliament's platform, and what I'm doing now isn't swearing H.C. Hansen's letter to the American ambassador in 1957. This is the crucial and important thing to understand when it comes to understanding the relationship between the United States, Greenland and Denmark. Because it is established that the relationship between Denmark, Greenland and the United States will be like the veteran cars in Tivoli, namely that the parents are then Danish politicians who stand so renovated and look at the veteran cars that are driving around, and we think it is really exciting, because fortunately nothing can happen because the steering wheel does not go down to the wheels. That is what was established on that occasion, because what really makes things work is, of course, the Greenlandic-American relationship that was established there. It is, after all, a highlight of Danish realpolitik, which is difficult to surpass. I believe that we must always remember that, regardless of how we analyze or consider our words, it is the real policy that will prevail when it comes to the Arctic and thus Greenland. Thank you for your broad support for the proposal for adoption, and thank you for the good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217150545	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen from IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217150558	For Inuit Ataqatigiit, our relationship with Denmark is actually quite clear. We fully support the self-government agreement and we want a strengthened role for Greenland within the Kingdom Community in the near future. We work continuously for a freer and a more self-determinating Greenland. Many Greenlandic politicians choose to use 90%. of the time talking about independence for Greenland and 10%. to talk about the welfare and everyday life of the people of Greenland. Inuit Ataqatigiit chooses the opposite. We want to use 90 per cent. of the time to discuss the welfare and a strengthened economy for the citizens of Greenland in order to create a good and strong basis for the future. There is enough to address in Greenland, because we see a future welfare crisis in our country: increasing inequality, moving away from Greenland and insufficient social efforts. Paradoxically, Greenland's economy has almost never been better than it has now because of the good international prices of fish and shrimps. Specifically, the resource tax on shrimps has increased by around 400 million in a few years. kr., without the citizens having felt the welfare promise that is needed. In addition to the cultural, family and historical ties between Greenland and Denmark, Inuit Ataqatigiit also believes that it is the desire for welfare that binds us together. Greenland is part of the Arctic, and Greenland is part of the Nordic Region, and we share values of welfare, human rights and peace with Denmark. The goal for us is an equal kingdom within the Kingdom community until we achieve greater self-determination, and that is why it sometimes sounds hollow at home in Greenland when Siumut and other parties in Naalaksususut want independence and talk about state formation, but do not strengthen our self-determination within the framework of self-government. There is quite a broad framework, and that is why we must also note that the political state of affairs that is at home in Greenland is something we can only point our finger at in ourselves. The United States is an ally, and the United States is showing increasing interest. We also know that Danish foreign policy is governed by what the Americans want, and from Greenland we are quite happy that there has been some more interest in Greenland. It is also important that that interest is translated into something very concrete and something really political, which can help ensure even better welfare in Greenland, even when interest comes from Denmark, but also from elsewhere. However, we are not naive in Greenland when it comes to American interest, because it has security policy concerns and it worries people in Greenland. It is important to remember here in the Folketing that we have a responsibility to ensure that there is peace in the country we call home. That is why we from Greenland are following very closely the interest that exists from the American side, and we are critical, but also nuanced, of the United States. I would like to remind you in this Chamber that Greenland has the right to conduct foreign policy in repatriated areas and also to obtain and conclude international agreements, for example. fishing. It is also our impression that there is, in fact, a good and close dialogue between the Naala Suisut and the government where there may be a need to coordinate the agreements to be concluded at international level. That is why we also have to say in this debate: the time has not come to limit Greenland's foreign policy role. On the contrary, there is a large majority in Greenland who believes that we want a freer framework and a constant development of the Kingdom community and of self-government to ensure a meaningful kingdom community. We also believe that there has to be that, both in the short term but also in the long term, namely to give Greenland the freedom to choose its own path. We must remember that an equal partnership requires equal partners, and that must be the goal also within the Kingdom community. Thank you very much. Qujanaq.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217151033	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217151037	Thank you for a very good speech, I think. It is quite clear that Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen shares the hope, the dream and the vision of a more independent Greenland, but does not see it decoupled from the kingdom community. Otherwise, you can get the impression that following the Greenlandic debate is being done in some circles at least. She also quite rightly points out that peace is a prerequisite, but that it is not enough to ensure good welfare and that there are a number of issues in Greenland that are pressing at the moment, both in the area of children, but also in the health sector and in several other areas that the rapporteur himself has pointed out, at the same time that we have become richer in recent years because of rising prices. What do the rapporteur actually think are the underlying factors in the welfare challenges that we see in Greenlandic society today? And is that something that can be dealt with jointly?
ParlaMint-DK_20191217151138	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217151140	Thank you very much. One might also ask the question in a slightly different way: is there a need for us to drag the welfare umbrella a little more down over Greenland? Now we set aside 80 million. kr. to vulnerable children and young people in Greenland, and it was in this context that in fact it was important for me to say that Greenland has to take responsibility. It must not be a sleeping pillow that Denmark allocates money to an area that has actually been taken home. So, of course, Naalaksuisut has to take responsibility, and if we are to ensure sustainability, then it is very much necessary that authorities, both locally but also in the Great Commune, and Naalaksuisut itself also take responsibility and do not always expect Denmark to take greater responsibility. There are few areas where I think we need to discuss: is 80 million. kr. Enough? Is happiness done with it? Are we going to deal with the problems of all these sexual assaults that are taking place on many of our children in Greenland? I do not necessarily think so, but it is a very good start, and it is then necessary to assess whether we should close the door that we have opened again, or whether we should open it more, in relation to Denmark contributing to some welfare in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217151251	Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard. He's gonna drop out. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl for Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217151256	I really like the picture of the welfare umbrella that can be pulled out a little bit. Then it has to be a little more elastic, and of course there has to be some more money for it. Now I think that Mr. Søren Espersen's criticism was a little negative, because you don't just have to criticize people all the time. One might also ask people, and I would like to repeat one question: how does the rapporteur view the huge, huge inequality that exists in Greenland? And if so, what will it take to change it? Because I think that is a common challenge that we have spent 150 years in Denmark working with.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217151335	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217151337	Thank you. When I was contacted by journalists because Trump had expressed a desire to buy Greenland, everyone in Greenland was actually at home sleeping because we have this 4 hour time difference. I couldn't even get hold of our party chairman or in Naala Suisut or somebody else at home to hear what the position really was. So I had to take it a little on gefühl, and my position was to say no. I really do not want us to be American, precisely because of the very great inequality in Greenland, which percentage resembles the American. I see that there is something better about being part of a kingdom community because there are some welfare values that you share and you are among the leaders in working for welfare. I really think that there is something good to be picked up for Greenland. I very much believe that education can be a lever. Whatever family you are born into, I believe that everyone should have the opportunity to choose which way to go. It is such a basicideological attitude that I have and which I think is reflected very well in welfare policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217151446	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217151447	That with what tools we can use was just one of the things I wanted to ask, because although the Nordic Region has not been a union in that sense, but were independent countries that have worked very closely together, this cooperation has been infected by mutual, and we have inspired each other, so that we have actually reduced inequality and raised welfare, at least in the time I have lived. But it has not been able to lift it seriously with Greenland, and that is why we must try to find the tools that are lacking in Greenland in order to bring them into line with the rest of the Nordic countries in terms of welfare and equality.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217151522	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217151524	First of all, I would say that I think that we are spending a lot of time talking about what is going to happen very far in the future and not so much time talking about what we should do now. A very specific example that I usually use is that if we get the basket broken in the social field, we will also see that there is a lot to get, both socio-economically, but of course also for the individual • instead of seeing that it goes down because you may have a difficult social situation, do not get an education and do not get into work, and then it goes on to the next generation. So I really think the social area is something that should have much more attention than it gets, especially at home in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217151604	Then it's Mrs. Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam from SIU.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217151608	Thank you very much. I would also like to say that we are now talking about foreign policy and the Arctic, and that is why I think it was rather inappropriate that we should start to make it a debate on both welfare and independence and a criticism of Siumut's policy. Among other things, it says: in the very first paragraph of IA's objectives, that one wants independence as one of the first. Will the rapporteur explain whether IA does not want to do so anyway?
ParlaMint-DK_20191217151644	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217151645	Thank you very much. Firstly, it is, after all, 10 years since we were given autonomy. We haven't taken a single area since then. We have had a much better economy, and the block grant has been established in the Greenland Committee that takes up much less in Greenland's economy than it has done in the past. In fact, we had every opportunity to do so if we really wanted to be more self-determinating in several different areas. Yes, that is the case, and it is also clear from my speech that IA wants independence for Greenland. That policy has not changed in all these years. Those who founded our party had that policy, and we still have that policy. We just think that we should spend a lot of time discussing how to get a better daily life for our citizens, because we see that there are a lot of people who choose to move from Greenland. We find it worrying when the reason why we do not get fewer in Greenland is that people move from Thailand to Greenland. I would really like there to be more Greenlanders who wanted to live in Greenland rather than a larger group of Greenlanders who choose to settle in Denmark because they do not get the welfare they want at home in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217151755	Mrs. Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217151757	Thank you for your answer. In Siumut we also believe that we should strengthen welfare, but it must be redefined because it clearly does not fit the nation we are today. It was also criticised that Siumut is not fighting enough for children's rights, but the Greenland Government has secured 80 million in cooperation with the Danish Government. kr. For that. The main problem which has also been the priority to be addressed is in East Greenland in Tasiilaq, where the rapporteur, among other things, is: have also worked in the municipality itself. It is right now IA that runs that municipality. What is the rapporteur going to say about the criticism and the fact that this is actually a municipal matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20191217151837	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217151838	Firstly, I would like to say that it is not enough to talk about it and it is not enough to mean anything. You also have to act. And we just have to note from the figures that we are unfortunately in the process of breaking the curve adversely, because there are fewer people who are getting an education in Greenland. That is something that concerns us very, very much. So it's not enough to mean something and be well-intentioned. In fact, we also need to act and ensure that it is quite concrete. Secondly, I would like to say that the reason for the 80 million. kr. is there and the 20 million. kr. if there is from Greenland, is a pressure from among others. IA to Naala Suisut. I have pointed out 80 million myself. kr. from Denmark and 20 million. kr. from Greenland, and they're there now. I'm just really, really happy about that, because it's good for a lot of kids in Greenland, I hope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217151925	Then it's mr. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217151928	Sir. Christian Juhl raises the interesting question why there is such a difference in welfare. It is, after all, in the law of self-government. I myself was a member of the Greenlandic-Danish-Self Government Commission when the law was made, and the block subsidy was frozen, I think it was 3.12 billion at the time. kr., and then it just had to be priced. It was actually a wish from Greenland. The two main Greenlandic dealers, Lars Emil Johansen and Kuupik Kleist, were very concerned that the block subsidy should be fixed so that it could not increase. The 80 million. kr., given, is somewhere contrary to the spirit of the Self-Government Act, for it was said very clearly on the part of the government that it should be neither more nor less. I think it should be considered to change what I think one should consider looking at whether it was a good idea to freeze this. The Faroe Islands, which also receive block grants, but not so much, negotiate each year with the Danish Finance Minister. Why the Greenlanders asked for it, I have never understood it, but that is why the welfare in Greenland is very different from the welfare in Denmark. That's how it works.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217152038	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217152040	I see this primarily as a comment. I can only say that I would like the Greenland Government to show greater responsibility for its citizens and to ensure that when Greenland's economy actually improves, it is also something that citizens must be able to feel in their daily lives. But, unfortunately, things are going the wrong way, and that means that there are people moving from Greenland, and I think that is such a pity, because I would like to see Greenland the best, and I think that there is a task in ensuring better governance to ensure that people want to stay in our country and feel that it is the good country, as I think it is in many ways. But it can get better.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217152120	Then it's mr. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217152122	What matters is that there are not enough resources to make proper welfare. That's what's in it. You simply do not have the means to do so. It is fine that there are a few years in which the fisheries sector is doing well and that it is also raising revenue, but it is far from being enough to make it. That is why I say that the resolution was wrong at the time and that it is sad to be in a kingdom community where there are regions of the Kingdom community that do not have the same level of welfare as we know. But that's the reason. There is no other explanation for this than that the funds are simply not there to make proper welfare, and that is why I propose that we look at the self-government law in making block subsidies flexible, as it is in relation to the Faroe Islands, which, of course, has good welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217152215	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217152216	Thank you very much. In Greenland we spend 3 billion. kr. In the social field, 3 billion. kr. to a population of 56,000 people. That's a lot of money. I think it is important that we also look critically at what we are doing. When we focus only on late followers and not on early efforts, we will always lag behind. When case officers are in possession of 80-250 cases per case. Caseworker, we will always lag behind. So there is also something structural, and there is also something internally in Greenland for which Greenland itself has to take responsibility, and it is not only about money, it is also about warm hands, it is also about good heads and to help ensure that they help build our Greenlandic society.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217152258	Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217152301	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for some excellent comments. But there is one thing that still seems a little like wormwood in the cup, namely this very violent focus alone on welfare. I understand that, of course, because there are some really serious problems that we all want to solve together with the rapporteur and her people in Greenland, but it is not the welfare that keeps the Kingdom community together. After all, the Kingdom is a historical living entity and has been so since 1397 when Norway, Sweden and Denmark and their neighbouring countries linked it together. And that is what creates a mental, emotional community that allows you to go hand in hand in both good times and bad times. It's not welfare. I would just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm this, i.e. that what binds Greenland and Denmark together is a historical, cultural, soul-based community that has been carried over more than 600 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217152404	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217152404-2	Thank you very much. It is important that the questioner also understands that there are also families in Greenland where you are not necessarily interwoven. And it may be that it is a story we would like to create down here, but there are some families where you only talk Greenlandic and where you have only lived in Greenland and where you have not necessarily been elsewhere in the world. And there, too, I think it is important to tell their case and represent their voice in the Danish Parliament, in that we also understand that we need to develop further and that we also need to understand each other in order to ensure that we can have this meaningful kingdom community. It is not only history that there is also a present where there is a strong desire for one to be independent in the long term. But it is not in the near future. So there are several different voices, one might say, in Greenland, which we try to represent by two people. And there are also some where there aren't these relationships, for example. a Danish family.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217152503	Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217152505	Allow me to say here that the rapporteur who is now in the chair is carrying out that task in a much more respectful way than that which can be experienced by other representatives of the Greenlandic people. But in relation to the very thing with the families, can the rapporteur not confirm that it is, after all, the exception that Greenlandic families are not merged into Danish, as well as that most Danish families have Greenlandic family members? And of course you can also find Zealanders who have never been to Jutland, and vice versa etc., but that does not change the fact that the historical reality is that our people belong together.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217152538	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217152539	Thank you very much. In Greenland, 90%. of the population speaks Greenlandic as the primary language, and then 10% speak Danish. And there it is important that you also understand from the other side that Greenland is complex, and I usually say that although we are the world's largest island, we are in fact made up of many different island communities, because we do not necessarily have this very close contact that you are used to having in Denmark, for example. So you can say that yes, in some families there is of course a relationship with Danish families, but in others there is not necessarily. And there is also a story where there are some clues that are disgusting, but I think it is important that you look at some very concrete cuts rather than a negative relationship between Greenland and Denmark that you then point to the concrete things and solve them rather than having a generally bad relationship between the parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217152630	Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and we will move on to Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam from SIU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217152649	Thank you for the floor. This is a debate about the Arctic, it is a debate about foreign policy and even about Greenland. I also think it is important that we start talking a little bit about factual things, also just to develop the debate a little better. The Kingdom is a word that does not even exist in the Constitution. This was something a lawyer who, at one time in the 1990s, made a major study on the three parts of the empire, wrote in his study, where he himself conceptualized this as a kingdom community. It is also important, when Greenland and the Greenlandic parties have later discussed the Commonwealth, to point out that the discussion is therefore today much wider than that. Today, we are not talking about independence, and I just think that is important because it is also a word that is often used, but which is very misleading, because there is not a single country in the world that is really for itself and independent. Denmark also deals with all sorts of other countries, both the United States and China, and nobody tells Denmark to choose whether to be with the United States or with China. It is a complex world order in which in the globalised world one is divided into countries, that is, territories, and divided into states by sovereignty, but also divided into nations where each definition of territory has acquired some kind of nationality for itself, since one has been recognised as a people. In this way we have in what is called the Kingdom Community, which I have now begun to call the wealth unit, three different countries with three different nations, but we are one state. It's the Danish state. Thus, Greenlanders also have only one citizenship, forefathers also have one citizenship, and Danes also have one citizenship. Siumut has developed its desire for a state formation since the 1970s, and now it stands in such a way that one does not necessarily want to distance itself from Denmark. You want to develop it again. Here you have the feeling that a lot of people in Greenland are really fond of the royal house, and we still want to be part of the kingdom, even though we have formed a state. But it is a study that can also be made to confirm or deny this. Here it has been discussed and one is very interested in being a kind of free association nation in the future, where it is actually under the kingdom, that is, under the royal house, one has this real community with three systematically equal nations and states that work together in the larger and more complex areas not only in terms of our common history and our common unity, but also because we have roughly the same values. When we talk about democracy and equality, these are the values we want to maintain. And the family relationships that are also being talked about aren't some you just want to cut. That is the systematic approach we would like to take, and I think we can develop the debate to be about that rather than just saying yes or no to something. Personally and from Siumut, I would like to say that we do not choose the United States versus Denmark • we choose Greenland, we choose Greenland's welfare and well-being for the Greenlanders. We believe that this can be done in better cooperation. That is why I would also like to thank the present government, as I have heard from its members, that cooperation on foreign policy and the Arctic has never been as good as it is now. Although there is, of course, a great deal still to be developed, this is a good step forward. I think we should start discussing what kind of community we want to form. Are there different ways to do that? When we talk about screening schemes, what kind of thing are we thinking about? Is it to limit or to help, and how do we do that? I think that Denmark and the Faroe Islands should also be better connected with Greenland, as Greenland knows almost nothing about the Faroe Islands, and the Faroe Islands also have limited knowledge about Greenland. If this is to be a real kingdom community unit, thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217153133	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. The first is from Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen from IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217153139	Thanks for the speech. From Inuit Ataqatigiits side we already proposed in 2013 that we make a screening tool in Greenland. We were inspired by Australia, where you have such a foreign investment review board. Various players should sit independently in Greenland, who could decide on the adjustments to be made in Greenland, with a view to ensuring that there are also socio-economic considerations. It was something that Naala Suisut chose at the time to say no to. We think it still makes a great deal of sense that at home in Greenland we also take a position on this and that it will not only be a Kingdom Community tool as there will be, but that Naalaksuisut will also be more involved in ensuring that this is something that we are much more proactive about, rather than just sitting around waiting for others to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217153231	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217153233	I saw this more as a comment from Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen than a question. However, I would like to say that the debate on what is going to happen in Greenland in relation to taken-over areas must, of course, take place among Greenland's responsible. Just as there are some things that Denmark is responsible for right now, it is 36 responsibilities, so it is also where you start to say that those who are responsible for something must also take responsibility. And you demand responsibility. I think it is fine to say, for example. Inatsisartut or Naalaksuisut, that you have to think in new ways, or that you have some demands from IA's side, for example. However, I also think it is important that this debate be held in Inatsisartut by the members of the IA there. And then let us talk in this Chamber about acquired Danish areas, as that is where you can say something about it from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217153331	Then it is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217153333	Thank you very much. I do not think the rapporteur quite understood this, because it is actually something that IA has taken up in the past but which has been rejected. One of the things that I find a little awkward, even in ensuring a good tone in the Kingdom community, is that Naala Suisut actually gets information about what is going on in foreign policy but is not able to pass it on to Inatsisartut. And it is the case that what we call the USPU or NASA has not been involved in a large number of cases. I just find this extremely regrettable, because it also helps to throw gravel into the machinery, when it is that you do not ensure that from the Danish government and from the Folketing and all the way to Inatsisartut there must of course also be information about what is going on in our country.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217153416	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217153418	Once again, I do not really hear a question, but more of a comment. And once again I just want to refer to Inatsisartut and Naalaksuisut and not to the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217153428	Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217153431	Thank you for that, President. I always welcome people, and especially young people, who are interested in the constitution of the empire, which I heard Mrs Høegh-Dam did a little bit of in her rapporteur's speech. I would like to hear a little more, because the last time I read the constitution, Greenland was mentioned, I think six times, and I could understand from Mrs Høegh-Dam's statement that Greenland was not mentioned at all. In this connection, Mrs Høegh-Dam might perhaps reflect on how she can stand on the Parliament's platform if Greenland is not mentioned in the constitution that forms the Folketing. In conclusion, I would just like to ask Mrs Høegh-Dam in her fervent interest in Danish constitutional law to explain how section 1 of the Constitution should be understood, if Greenland is not included.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217153516	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217153518	Clearly, the rapporteur has misunderstood what I said from the platform. I said that the concept of community is not to be found in the constitution. It is true what the rapporteur says that Greenland has been mentioned several times, since the Danish Kingdom has also been mentioned several times. I'm talking about the conceptization of the kingdom community is not something that is enshrined in the Constitution. In addition, I would point out that I really want a kingdom community, but right now I see it more as a wealth unit. Now we are in the Danish Parliament, and it is also because it is the Danish Parliament that we have the Danish flag in here. We do not have the Faroese flag or the Greenland flag, and that of course makes sense, but I also think it is very appropriate to be able to say that right now we are under a wealthy unit, but we would like to develop it into a real kingdom community. What I'm talking about is more how we systematically design it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217153612	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217153613	I am pleased that Mrs Høegh-Dam agrees with the Danish People's Party that Dannebrog is doing well in this Chamber. That is something that has caused a certain controversy in the past. I just have to understand that when Mrs Høegh-Dam asks for the word "kingdomsfælles" it is purely semantics, so the fact that section 1 of the Constitution says: "This Constitution applies to all parts of the Kingdom of Denmark." So is Mrs Høegh-Dam aware that it includes Greenland, and that everyone in Greenland therefore has the same privileges and obligations as Danes and, moreover, convicts according to the constitution, which Mrs Høegh-Dam has signed herself to comply with?
ParlaMint-DK_20191217153653	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217153654	I don't know if I'm gonna keep saying something that can be misunderstood. But in any case, as I have just said, the Danish Empire is in the Constitution, the Commonwealth is not in the Constitution, and I will not repeat that again. In addition, of course, I agree that the Danish flag is allowed in here. I am not shy of having to thank the Danish People's Party once in a while, as they have also helped to strengthen the desire for independence for so many years.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217153724	Then it's mr. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217153726	That's a lovely greeting, thank you very much. Can I just say that I think it is too easy when Mrs Høegh-Dam says: we will not say whether we are with Denmark or we are with the United States; we are just Greenland. Something like that was said. It's not real life. The real world is that when the Danish fleet sails home we've talked about that before it becomes the U.S. Navy that sails in. That's the way it is. You know from ancient times that every country has an army, either one's own or another's, and that's the way it is. The United States will not leave this land empty; I think that is clear now. So that's why you have to deal with: Are you with Denmark, or are you with the United States? That is a comment. Moreover, it is also a short comment; you do not need to ask questions. It is a short comment, so it was a short comment, and one should be allowed to reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217153820	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217153822	It's kind of funny to have to answer whether you're with the United States or Denmark, and that there's not really anything in between or grey areas. Nobody says to Denmark: Are you for only the North or only the United States or only China or just Europe? No, you are part of a larger globalised world where you can act and interact and make agreements and international agreements with different states and nations at diplomatic level. That is what Denmark has done. So when you think about it, I would also like to say that NATO, in the end, has the greatest defence in the world, and it is once again a community that has been made democratically. And frankly, if we are to talk about sizes and armies, I would say that there are very many countries that have been recognised as states that do not have their own army. And I also think it is important to point out that a small army in Denmark, even though it is very important, does not help to ensure that a huge army, which exists in the United States or Russia, stays away from Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217153934	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217153936	In this context, there is no military operation of grey areas. It's just so simple. It is a fact that the United States will not let the vast rural area lie wasted. You'll be there. So, by the way, when reference is made to NATO: what has Greenland done for NATO? I'm just saying that when the United States bases on Greenland, it's part of NATO's defense. When the United States has bases in Germany, it is part of NATO's defence. I don't hear Germans asking Americans for money while they have bases. They're almost terrified when the Americans want to pull away from the bases. But this isn't a grey area. It's military. And then, what has Greenland done for NATO?
ParlaMint-DK_20191217154020	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217154021	But it is a grey area in the sense that it is not the United States, it is NATO and that several countries are part of NATO. Yes, the United States is the dominant party, you might say, in NATO. But if you also ask what Greenland has done for NATO, I would say that it is precisely having this military base in Greenland, just as we can say that it is because of Greenland that Denmark and the kingdom community are even in the Arctic and have something to say about the Arctic. This is just as much what has been passed on to the Greenlandic community.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217154050	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. Then we give the floor to the Foreign Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217154106	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, thank you to Mr. Søren Espersen to raise it here, I think, good and important debate about the commitment of the United States to Greenland and many other issues. I would first like to make it clear from the government that we see the work on the Arctic challenges as something that has a huge priority. We have done so from day one, and from day one we have also been working hard on this work to strengthen our cooperation in the Kingdom Community precisely on the Arctic challenges that exist. We can then also see that Arctic politics is filling more in the world as such. The United States, China and others are also interested in this. Japan and South Korea, for example, are: Observers in the Arctic Council. There is a great interest in the Arctic issue. I think it is important to say in this context that we in the Kingdom Community are going to develop the new Arctic strategy that will apply from 2021 onwards. This is something we do in an equal and close partnership with, of course, Greenland and the Faroe Islands and also the Danish part. When we look at today's debate, I think it is clear that we are in a situation where we have to take stock of the security policy challenges that exist in the Arctic region. We see Russia, the Northwest Passage, where there is greater military armament, mainly defensive capabilities, but some of them can also be used offensively. We're gonna take stock of that. We see greater economic activity, among other things. as a result of climate change and the melting of ice. And all these relationships we have a huge interest in confronting together in the Kingdom community. It's important. We're in a world that's a little bit more of a breakup. The rules and standards we may have been used to after World War II are challenged. There it is important, I believe and the government, that we stand together as small nations, Greenland, the Faroe Islands and Denmark. We stand stronger if we are together than we stand separately in the world we are part of and the world we see into where there is a major power competition and where the tectonic blocs move, as Mr. Martin Lidegaard mentioned it. So from the outset, I would like to say that in relation to Greenland, the United States and the kingdom, it is important to say that this is not a zero-sum game. What matters now is also to make the most of the community we have, including that American interest in Greenland is reflected in sustainable economic development in Greenland • investment and something that benefits Greenland and the Greenlandic people. It's something we work hard on. We have a number of attention points for us in the kingdom. We don't agree with the United States on everything. We can mention the climate issue where they have withdrawn from the Paris Agreement. We believe that this is an important agreement that must be enforced for the sake of our common future. But there are also many things on which we agree. What is absolutely fundamental is that the security community we have between the Kingdom and the United States is absolutely crucial to the security that we have had for so many years. We just celebrated the 70th anniversary of the NATO Alliance. This is very important in terms of our own security. So I would like to thank you for a good debate. I could go into a lot of individual elements. I think I will leave the good debate of the rapporteurs. But there are a few things I would just like to mention, sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen mentions that it was a wakeup call compared to what happened here earlier this year. The Arctic area is something that, as I said, we have prioritised from day one in the government, because it is important to us also before any postponement of state visits and other things, the purchase of Greenland and the discussions • because we look into the future we are doing. And we are going to strengthen cooperation, not just in words. In other words, cooperation is based on equality, on respect, on mutual involvement, etc. We are going to do that quite specifically, and that is something that we will see in this government's time. Reich community has been a theme that we have respect for each other. And I think the most important thing in this regard is that sometimes we take each other for granted and have done so for many years. Never do that. If you start taking communities and each other for granted, then we are already starting to lose what we have. So we have to fight for it every day, and that also applies to the Kingdom community. I think we have a unique opportunity and I welcome the great support for the proposal for adoption here in the Danish Parliament. I am glad that the debate was raised. We have a unique chance here too to look into a modern world where we strengthen the kingdom community, strengthen the community we have, respect each other, and do so in a proper way. So thank you again for the debate. We look forward to working on the track that has been laid, including from today's debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217154605	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217154608	Well, I'm glad the government didn't need any wakeup call. We could then be a little polemical and say that it is a little sad that we have not yet seen a single proposal for a screening scheme in the last six months where the current government has had a responsibility. It could be quite useful right now. But that's how you get a wakeup call in many different ways. I just want to ask the question that I was also trying to ask the Prime Minister: when are we going to start some kind of negotiation, some kind of action, something in relation to this screening scheme?
ParlaMint-DK_20191217154639	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217154641	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen knows that it is a work that was already started under the previous government, so this government has clearly taken over it, and we have put turbo on it, because it is really important to have an investment scheme with full respect for the three parts of the kingdom community. We'll work hard on that. A mission has been made. The Justice Department is at the end of the table. We want to complete this work as soon as possible and do so wisely for the benefit of all, that is to say for Denmark and Greenland and the Faroe Islands. So I am glad that the Left is so much in favour of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217154713	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217154714	See, now I also have turbo on my car, which means that it can drive a little stronger when you press the accelerator in the bottom etc., but I didn't actually get an answer. When does the government intend to involve the rest of the Folketing, and when does it come up with a concrete proposal? This turbo, which the government has now apparently activated, must mean that it can also give some kind of date indication.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217154735	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217154737	I would, of course, like to return to specific dates, which I would like to promise the rapporteur. It's really important. And it is also important to stress that this work is being done in close cooperation with both the Faroe Islands and Greenland, and I think that is the right way to do it. So I am once again delighted that we have a common view on this, that is to say, an investment regime in the world we are looking into, also with some security policy challenges. That is something we are united in. And then let us land a system that works for the whole Kingdom community in a proper and good way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217154808	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. So we say thank you to the Minister, and then we give the floor to Mr. Søren Espersen on behalf of the questioners.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217154821	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for being so numerous. I don't know if it's exactly the a-team, but it looks a little bit like that, doesn't it? Thank you very much for that and thank you for the things that have been said. Some may be offended. I'm sorry. Thank you very much for the good government remarks, and thank you very much for an amazingly exciting debate. I really think it has been, because we are really addressing something that affects all of us and that we can agree on a great many things somewhere. We can agree precisely to strengthen this cooperation, which we have, to make it closer and to create this, as we have also mentioned, confidential forum where ministers from the three countries can meet much more frequently than we see now. I think that is the best way to avoid misunderstandings at parliamentary level as well. I could imagine having a kind of parliamentary congress between the three countries where parliamentarians could meet. I'd like that very much. I fully agree with what has been said in relation to a definition of the Kingdom community. What it says is not so crucial, I think. I remember that it was Naja Lynge, the Greenlandic writer, who often appears in Jyllands-Posten, who talked about this re-establishing a kingdom community, namely a re-invention of the kingdom community. I think that is incredibly important. By the way, she is also supported by Mr. Edmund Joensen, who I think has left the hall. It is a great wish for him to simply find out how we are doing this better, because none of us is interested in steering along such a course of disaster as it may seem a little. Such a conference where there can be parliamentarians from all three countries and where you can meet 2 days in the Faroe Islands, or whatever you find out, you can turn into an event that is as frequent as we meet in the Nordic Council, where I also think you get a lot out of just talking. There are quite a few of us in here who really know Greenlandic and Faroese politicians in such a personal way. We only know the very few who have been elected and are in here. But otherwise, we don't really know what kind of people they are. It will be important to do so. I also believe that we need to have some sort of Greenlandic commitment or commitment, as I believe it is called in Danish. One has to take into account the discussion I had with Mrs Høegh-Dam earlier on. For the world is such that either we stick together in the kingdom community, or there is no kingdom community, and so there are others who take over the tactics. It is so important for me to say that independence has a consequence that can be quite terrible. I think that society would probably continue anyway, but militaryly and defence-wise, it would inevitably be completely in the pocket of the United States, and it is not in the same way as we have had, compared to a fleet that has sailed in Greenland, just as long as there have been people. It has a special relationship with the people who live in Greenland, and it is ready to help and assist. That's pretty much what I'm gonna say. It is true, as the Prime Minister says, that people around the world are impressed by the way we have arranged ourselves in the kingdom. The self-governing laws both for the Faroe Islands and Greenland are probably the most far-reaching ones found above all. In fact, there is only foreign and security policy and the royal house and a few other things, and otherwise you can adapt as you like. We can also, as Mrs Aaja Chemnitz says, take those things home. There are still 32-33 things that remain that have not been touched since the Act of Self-Government was passed in 2009. So I really hope there may be a re-establishment of the Kingdom community. We rightly chose, as I also say, in the case of frozen block subsidies, which are a scourge for Greenland, and where the Faroese people have been able to adapt to the fact that some years, when things might have gone less well, there was a need for block grants rather than for ordinary finance ministers to discuss and debate, as they always had, even in relation to Greenland before the Act of Self-Government. I think we should try to look at it. I think we should perhaps try, as a starting point, in the Greenland Committee and in the Faroes Committee, together to find out how we can do this in a way that will strengthen the kingdom. I think most of us are interested in that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217155319	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen from Inuit Ataqatigiit.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217155324	Thank you very much and also thank you for raising the debate. None of us can foresee the future, which is why I would just like to say, as a comment on some of the points made by the rapporteur, that you cannot tie Greenland or the Faroe Islands on your hands and feet and say: you must be in this Kingdom Community. That is not the way forward. I also think that a conclusion to this debate is that there is room for improvement. There are some things we can do better. There are some things Greenland can do better. There are some things Denmark can do better. There are certainly also some things that the Faroe Islands can do better. I would like to support the proposal from the Danish People's Party to meet the parliaments. It could be in the Arctic Delegation. It could also be part of the kingdom's Arctic strategy, i.e. that it was something that began to be done in the future. So I would like to support that part, but it is just important for me to say that one cannot tie one another on one's hands and feet, but that it must be a desire to be in a meaningful kingdom that makes sense to all three parties that bear the community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217155425	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217155426	No, I do not entirely agree with that. It is not a question of binding anyone, because if the Faroese or Greenlandic people decide to be independent, there is not a mouth in here to apologize for the expression "who will oppose it." Well, that would be something weird. I'd be sorry to vote yes, but I'd probably do it anyway. But that is not what I mean by making a commitment. It's kind of like marriage. It's a bad starting point for a marriage if one side says: When I get really rich, I leave you. It's awful. It's really hard. It's not that I've ever tried it before, but it's the kind of commitment that I think you're allowed to demand: that we're here now, and we're gonna fight for this marriage as long as we want, and then we won't put up with someone saying that when they find oil and it all jumps, it's bye-bye. I don't want to. So that's what I mean by making a commitment... it's not about commitment.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217155519	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217155520	Could we rephrase it and perhaps find a compromise that says: let us commit as long as we are in it and let us focus on the time that is now? If you can do that, it's something we can see ourselves in, but this committing forever isn't something you can from Greenland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217155535	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217155536	I do not agree with that. Well, you can't say that we're committing ourselves right now... we're taking the day with us here... but in a month everything can look quite different. I think this is a false way of entering into close, loving cooperation that has existed in the Kingdom community over all these years. You have to make a commitment. It has to be said that independence costs, and is that what we want? And therefore choose: Are we with the United States, or are we with Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20191217155607	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked for the floor, the debate is closed and the question is closed. Voting on the proposed amendments will not take place until Thursday 19 December 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217155730	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Rasmus Stoklund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217155740	Thank you. Today we are going to deal with a bill which, among other things, is: aims to abolish the automatic granting of citizenship to children whose parents have joined the Islamic State and who were born in IS-controlled areas. In the Social Democratic Party we take the view that when you go down to join the Islamic State and choose to have a family there, you are not a Danish family. At the same time, we do not want a world of stateless children, and the proposal we are discussing here today will only apply to children who do not thereby become stateless. At the same time, the proposal will impose the same standard of conduct on persons who acquire citizenship, i.e. the same requirements as today's main characters. We think that is fair. With this bill, the EEAS will also have the opportunity to cut off or limit consular assistance to foreign fighters. We are talking here about people, for example. have participated in activities abroad that may endanger Denmark's security, and these people have turned their backs on Denmark, and therefore we owe them nothing. They have dedicated their lives to fighting against us, and we do not owe them consular assistance and help in any other way. The final element of the draft law is that we will amend the law on citizenship on the basis of an EU judgment, according to which in future it will be the case that the authorities will have to assess the effects in relation to EU law when assessing cases of withdrawal of Danish citizenship. People who join the Islamic State have turned their backs on Denmark, we owe them nothing, and I have to say that the Social Democrats support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217155920	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217155925	Thank you. I would like to ask you about the wording which, among other things, includes: on page 3 of the Law notes that the government does not want the criminal children of persons who declare themselves Danish or become naturalised to acquire Danish citizenship together with the parent. This is the wording of criminal children I would like to ask about. Because if they are criminal children you want to hit, should they not have committed something punishable and have children who have not yet been born committed something punishable?
ParlaMint-DK_20191217155958	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217155959	But when it comes to criminal children, it is after all 15 to 17-year-olds who have committed something criminal and who cannot therefore be a secondary person when a main character, their father or mother, seeks Danish citizenship, as they normally can today in the process of citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217160020	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217160022	Then I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur is of the opinion that children under the age of 15 have not committed any criminal offence, are completely innocent and have not made any choices or turned their backs on anyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217160038	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217160039	The criminal low age is 15 years old, which is why it is 15 to 17 years old this is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217160051	Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217160053	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I'm just gonna listen, sir. Rasmus Stoklund, if he does not agree that it is, after all, a new break, that we are saying that we are beginning not to punish children, but at least to deprive them of rights solely on the basis of parents' actions.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217160114	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217160115	We want to avoid that people who travel to an IS-controlled area and create a family, and who then lose the desire to be there, can travel back to Denmark. If we simply assign citizenship to children born in these areas, then it is clear that they also have the opportunity to return to Denmark, even if they have not been here otherwise, at a much later stage in their lives, where they can pose a great threat to the safety of the Danes. We're not interested in that. At the same time, we are not interested in making children stateless, and that is why it is not the risk in this context. And it is not a human right to have a Danish citizenship. You have to remember that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217160157	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217160200	In the first place, I think it is important to emphasise that we are talking here about suspected foreign fighters, since no one has yet been convicted of being foreign fighters. It is only that they are in a certain area. However, it is quite far-reaching that we are depriving children of rights based on parents' actions. Normally we take the child's perspective and defend the child's rights, and since it is a child who would potentially become a Danish citizen, the Danish state also has a special obligation to protect that child. That right is a right we're depriving them of with this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217160232	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217160234	We're not taking anything away from anyone. We are making legislation that applies to the future. People can stop going down to IS-controlled areas and start a family. If you do, you take away your child the opportunity to obtain Danish citizenship at birth.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217160251	Then it's mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217160300	Thank you. That is a little in line with the question put by the last questioner, because I do not think that was quite the answer to that. It is a new break that children are punished by not obtaining Danish citizenship because of their parents' actions. That is what is being asked. Well, is it a new break, or isn't it a new break? The rapporteur can certainly give a clear answer to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217160329	For my sake, we can call it a new break, but I do not recognise that it is a withdrawal of anything. This is a bill that applies to the future, and you can of course not go into an IS-controlled area and support the caliphate.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217160344	It's so hard if you're an unborn child not to do anything. What this is all about is that there are Danish children who cannot become Danish citizens. That is what the proposal is all about, and I am glad that the rapporteur admits that it is a new break. I think it is a wrong new break to do, because children are children, and children should not be punished for the actions of their parents.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217160410	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217160411	These children are not punished for the actions of their parents. They do not become Danish citizens, but it is not a punishment not to become a Danish citizen. It is the parents who have made a choice that they should not be Danish citizens, because they have travelled with open eyes into these areas controlled by IS.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217160428	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217160438	Thanks for the speech. I think it was very sensible for the rapporteur to say that it is not a human right to have Danish citizenship. I fully agree with that, and I think it is very, very important to emphasise that it can never be a right to obtain Danish citizenship. I think it makes sense to say that children born in IS-controlled areas of jihadists, and who it is, should not automatically get Danish citizenship that is fine but why will it not include all children? Why is it that they say that those who would otherwise be stateless still have to have Danish citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20191217160514	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217160516	We don't want a world, and it's a real political disagreement... where more stateless children are born all the time. I think we should consider what the consequences might be of our adopting legislation here in the Folketing, which made children born stateless, who would otherwise have been Danish citizens, out in the world. Because it could be that other countries too were then inspired by that legislation and that suddenly many stateless children were born within the borders of the Danish Kingdom, and that would then be our problem. If we want other countries to play according to the rules that have been adopted internationally, and I believe that we have an interest in that as a small state in a large and constantly more complex world, then I think it is very important that we ourselves comply with those rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217160608	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217160610	The rapporteur started out so beautifully with saying that it can never be a right to a right to a right to a right of citizenship, and the rapporteur nevertheless says that it can do so, by the way, because for all possible reasons we still have to give it. So there is no coherence in the rapporteur's arguments, and I think that is a little too bad. Because either you automatically get Danish citizenship or you don't get it, in my opinion, and if there is some grotesque old-fashioned convention that says that they should have it anyway, then you have to do something about it instead of just adjusting and thus muting your own argument, which was so reasonable when it began.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217160648	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217160650	I really think it is very coherent in this argument to distinguish between a situation in which we are dealing with one who has one citizenship and one who has two citizenships. In the case of a child who could have two citizenships, that is to say could get one from his other parent, I see no reason why he should have Danish citizenship. But when we're dealing with someone who would be stateless, I think the situation is different. In my opinion, this is a fairly clear difference between the situation of these two children.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217160725	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Rasmus Stoklund and goes further in the rapporteur's line. Sir. Morten Dahlin from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217160735	Thank you. Today, we are discussing L 83 and it is a legislative proposal which must bring about a number of changes, above all in the area of citizenship. Firstly, the draft law envisages that children born in a war zone to which parents have illegally entered, for example: to fight for the Islamic State, no longer per. automatically get Danish citizenship after their parents, unless and it is quite important that the children are thereby made stateless. The Left can support this part, because we recognise that if you go down to fight for the terrorist gang IS and then choose to start a family down there, it's not a Danish family you're setting up. In addition, we are quite convinced that this proposal itself will have a quite powerful deterrent effect on people who could have the insane idea of going down and joining the caliphate and the terrorists who are fighting for it. Secondly, the draft law aims to extend to their children the requirements of good repute imposed on parents who want Danish citizenship. In ordinary Danish this means that where a 17-year-old criminal today will be able to acquire Danish citizenship with his mother or his father, he can no longer do so, because we will forward-lookingly make the same demands to comply with the law to him as we do to his parents. We in the Left think this is quite fair, because Danish citizenship is a very special gift that can be obtained from the Danish people if you meet a number of requirements, and one of the requirements is that you should stay on the right side of the law. Thirdly, the legislative proposal ensures that our international obligations are respected. This is done by the Danish authorities undertaking to carry out a proportionality assessment in relation to EU law when cases of revocation or withdrawal of citizenship arise. In the Left, we are in favour of a rule-based international society, which is why we must necessarily take account of the government's assessment of when we are within the circle in relation to the international rules that we have undertaken to follow. So this element, even though it's a little more distressed, we can also support it. Finally, the draft law will limit the possibility of foreign fighters receiving help from Danish representations abroad. It may sound harsh and brutal, but when you dive into the actual bill, this part seems a little like a thin cup of tea. For what the government is proposing is that the fact that one has fought as a foreign warrior must henceforth be incorporated as one of several elements when it comes to assessing whether the Danish authorities should provide consular assistance, and certainly to mark only within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs's resort. In other words, when it comes to matters such as the issue of passports and foreign cases, it should not be taken into account whether a person is a foreign warrior, because these things are not within the remit of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I am not saying that it is wrong for this to be the case, but I would just point out that it is not entirely in line with the picture of the bill that the government was trying to paint up in public. Nevertheless, the Left can also support this part. If we now support all the parts of the legislative proposal, there is no way around declaring that we can also support the legislative proposal in its entirety. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217161105	Sir. Kristian Hegaard of the Radical Left has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217161109	Thank you. In the debate on the issue of citizenship and its withdrawal, the phrase is often used that some people have turned their backs on Denmark, and that is why they should be deprived of their citizenship. I would therefore like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur believes that newborn children or not yet born children have turned their backs on Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217161132	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217161133	Thank you, sir. Kristian Hegaard for the question, which also gives me the opportunity to correct a misunderstanding which is evidently widespread in the Radical Left, namely that this bill should lay the foundations for depriving someone of their citizenship. This bill lays down rules that it is forward-looking if you choose to enter an area in which it is illegal to enter, for example. to join the Islamic State and fight for the terrorists and the caliphate that one's child per. It is not possible for the child to become a national of Denmark, unless the child becomes a stateless person. After all, these are rules that apply to the future. That is why it is quite essential in this debate to get the facts right. So the claim that by supporting this bill we should deprive any of citizenship is not correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217161222	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217161223	This is certainly not a radical misunderstanding, because today the rules are such that a newborn can acquire citizenship through his parents. This bill takes away that opportunity. It's so per. definition a withdrawal of a right that applies. So it is kind of pseudo-like to say that it is not a withdrawal of a right. But what I really asked, and what I would like to have the rapporteur's opinion on, is whether newborn children or not yet born children have turned their backs on Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217161255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217161257	Thank you for that follow-up question. I just have to get back to some of what I just said. The questioner calls it a pseudodiscussion, but it is not a pseudodiscussion. What the questioner said before was that with this bill we are setting out to deprive someone of their citizenship. We don't. But the questioner is quite right that we are changing that set of rules so that we cannot go down to a war zone in the future and join the Islamic State and then be sure that your child will have Danish citizenship unless it would otherwise be stateless. We can support that part.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217161328	Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217161331	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. One can say that it is a somewhat semantic discussion when one discusses whether it is to deprive someone of something or whether it is a right they lose. The most correct thing is to say that it is a right they lose. I would like to ask Mr. Morten Dahl about something. Now I understand that the Left does not think that this bill goes far enough in terms of losing the right to consular assistance, and then I just have to hear whether the rapporteur does not agree that it is quite unusual that we are talking here about a group of citizens who, by their very nature, are suspected of action. Now the rapporteur said that they were foreign fighters, but one can only note that they are suspected of being foreign fighters. Normally, we go in and provide consular assistance to citizens who are also suspected of serious crimes... it may be drug smuggling or paedophilia or anything else... and is it not quite far-reaching that we are saying here that there is a group of citizens who are suspected of something they cannot get consular assistance for?
ParlaMint-DK_20191217161430	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217161432	Thank you to the questioner. That gives me the opportunity to say two things. Firstly, I did not say that the proposal did not go far enough. In fact, I think that I used the wording very precisely, that I am not saying it is wrong that this is the case. That is why I saw that part of my speech more as a public statement to those who now had to have a different view of the government's bill, because I have to say that I was personally surprised when I tried to compare what the government said in public with what was in the draft law in relation to the consular section. It may be that there are others who felt the same way as I did, and that is why I just wanted to draw attention to the discrepans that were in that context. Then the questioner asks whether this is a far-reaching proposal. I would like to agree with the honourable Member that this is far-reaching, but I also believe that it is necessary in the fight that is currently being waged to ensure that, for example, we do not lose sight of this. Some of these foreign fighters don't come home to Denmark. So, yes, it goes beyond that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217161533	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217161536	The rapporteur is quite right in saying that what is going on in this Chamber is, of course, public education of a certain nature, so I can only welcome the fact that this is what we are trying to contribute. That is why I would also like to ask the rapporteur whether there are other types of crime where the rapporteur thinks it would be appropriate to say that consular assistance should also not be provided when we do not do so in relation to suspected foreign fighters. Are there any other groups of suspected Danish citizens in which the rapporteur thinks that it might be appropriate for them to lose the right to consular assistance here? And if not, why not?
ParlaMint-DK_20191217161611	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217161613	Thank you for the question, which I have to say quite frankly I have a little difficulty answering. I haven't given it any thoughts until now. I personally like to think through my answers before I give them, so I have to answer that. Peder Hvelplund at another time, because I really don't have an answer to it right now. I hope so, sir. Peder Hvelplund can forgive me.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217161638	Thank you, sir. Morten Dahlin. Then the next rapporteur from the Danish People's Party is Mrs Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217161652	Thank you, sir. President. In the Danish People's Party we support some of the points in L 83. We think it is reasonable that children born in areas where terrorist organisations are parties to an armed conflict should not automatically become Danish citizens. Children's parents have failed Denmark by entering an area where you are not allowed to enter, so they should not be able to pass on Danish citizenship to their children. For how are children going to get a relationship with Denmark when they e.g. was born and raised in an area under the Islamic State? But we want this part of the bill to be tightened up so that under no circumstances does the child acquire Danish citizenship, even if it becomes stateless. We are therefore tabling amendments on this during the committee's work. The next point we think is also sensible. It is a question of so-called 'participants', i.e.: children of persons seeking citizenship must meet the same criminal record and crime requirements as other persons seeking citizenship. So we can also support that part of the law. When it comes to the third part, which deals with the consequences of the so-called Chebbesdom in the European Court of Justice and resulting changes in Article 8 of the law on citizenship, we need more information before we can decide how we stand. At first glance, it sounds mysterious that citizenship of the Union must be taken into account when you wish to renounce someone's citizenship or not to give them one because they have grown up outside Denmark. We will ask at committee reading what citizenship of the Union can mean for Danes, since Denmark has reservations about citizenship of the Union. In addition, we must have an assessment of how many people this could affect. And is this really a relaxation that will make it easier for some to obtain or retain Danish citizenship? We do not, of course, want the European Court of Justice to interfere in who gets citizenship in Denmark under any circumstances. So there are a large number of things that we need to clarify during the work of the committee before we can finally take a position on this part of the legislative proposal. The fourth point is that the External Action Service must be able not to provide consular assistance to foreign fighters. We can support that too. So there are three things that we think look fine, and then there is one that we have to kick to the corner until we have more information, and then in committee we will table an amendment to the first part of the legislative proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217161938	Sir. Kristian Hegaard has asked for a comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217161944	Thank you. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur considers it criminal to have criminal parents?
ParlaMint-DK_20191217161953	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217161954	No, but I do not think that citizenship should be acquired automatically if your parents have committed something as wrong as travelling into an area in which you cannot enter and where the Islamic State is fighting. Then I do not think that at birth the child should take over Danish citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217162020	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217162022	What I was asking was, is it criminal in itself to have criminal parents? And I think it would be good if there were an opportunity for the rapporteur to respond to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217162034	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217162036	Of course it is not criminal, but one should not automatically be able to acquire citizenship if one is born in that area so it has nothing to do with it. This is something we are adopting today, perhaps, or when it comes to the third reading, so that is how we want it in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217162053	We thank Mrs Krarup. Then it's mr. Kristian Hegaard as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217162215	Thank you. It's never the kids' fault. It's the adults' fault. It is the adults who carry out the atrocities. That is what the Prime Minister said in his strong apology to the goodport boys a few months ago, and I agree. The same view should also apply to innocent children born of Danish parents in conflict areas where terrorists ravage. Because it's never the children's fault. It's the adults' fault. It is the adults who carry out the atrocities. Children are without blame for the actions of their parents, in the atrocities of their parents, and it is therefore worrying that the government, with this bill, will now take the lead in depriving children of their fundamental rights. I strongly condemn people who leave Denmark to fight the cause of Islamists and to commit atrocities in another country. Atrocities that attack and challenge the democratic values that we live by; atrocities that intend to break our values. And we all hate that. But that is precisely why we must not succumb to it and compromise with our own values in that fight, and that is what we do if we sell out of children's fundamental rights. Because, as the Prime Minister said, it is the adults who commit atrocities, and it is therefore obvious that it is not their children who commit them. While some of the adults have turned their backs on our values in Denmark, their children have turned around innocently in their mother's belly. Denmark should not turn its back on the children. We should not punish children for the actions of their parents, because children can inherit their parents' fortunes, but not their guilt. And it's not criminal in itself to have criminal parents. Therefore, children should not have deprived themselves of their right to citizenship at birth because of their parents. Children are people and individuals with their own identity... not something their parents own. Children are protected as the people and the individuals they are. And it gives rights to be a child; we must not do away with that. We do not fight Islamism or evil by giving up children's rights. For what are the Danish and democratic values that we claim to fight for if we throw them overboard in the battle? What do we have to fight for? By the fact that the children get citizenship, we actually have the chance to bring them home. Home to Denmark and Danish values. Away from evil and dark ideologies. We can stop radicalising them instead of letting them stay and develop into new IS warriors. It cannot be in Denmark's interest to take the passport from new Danish children and let them develop into foreign warriors who will hurt Denmark or democratic values. It is quite unreasonable to take innocent Danish children hostage in the fight against evil. What have unborn children done to Denmark? They can't decide anything, and they haven't made a decision on anything. The same applies to fast, tight, rhetorical reports designed to give headlines and show action. For it has gone completely out of hand when some propose sacrificing children's fundamental legal status, sacrificing children's rights and sacrificing children's legal certainty. We cannot be familiar with allowing innocent children to be the victims of politicians' talk by responsible adults, because if politicians do not fight for children, who does? Whom should children put their trust in if adults fail?
ParlaMint-DK_20191217162645	Thank you, sir. Kristian Hegaard, who will be here a little longer because there are two inscribed for short remarks. I should just like to mention, for the sake of good order, that we do not mention the Prime Minister by name, but we refer to the Prime Minister as the Prime Minister, since it is the office we are discussing with. Then I shall begin by giving the floor to Mr Seligman. Rasmus Stoklund of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217162710	Thank you. Parents make many choices for their children. These parents are making a choice with completely open eyes, now that this legislation will hopefully be passed, that their children will not have Danish citizenship. They get a different citizenship because parents choose to enter an IS-controlled area. How can it be a question of us punishing these children in this House? After all, it is a choice that parents make for their children, and it is not a punishment not to become a Danish citizen. In other words, all other citizens of the world do not suffer from not being Danish citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217162748	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217162750	There I can answer quite clearly that it should not be criminal in itself to have criminal parents who have committed something monstrous. But yes, it is a withdrawal of a right if you no longer have the same opportunity to obtain citizenship as you have had in the past. The fact that, from 1 February, you no longer have an option that you now have is a withdrawal of a right.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217162816	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217162818	Does the rapporteur also think that it is a punishment if a main applicant for citizenship in Denmark fails to take his or her child as a second person? If there is a parent in Denmark who applies for Danish citizenship himself but fails to take his own child to the bill, even if he could come as a secondary person, will this be an example of this parent punishing his child? Will that also be what the rapporteur would think?
ParlaMint-DK_20191217162842	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217162843	What I can just say quite clearly is that for the Radical Left it is not criminal in itself to have criminal parents. That is what is clear. Then you can mention some examples and so on, but what is quite clear is that it is not criminal to be a child of criminal parents, on the same footing as if, as a child, you have parents who drink a little too much alcohol or something, you shouldn't go that way yourself. Then we have to put an end to it. So in this way you do not automatically inherit your parents'challenges.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217162917	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217162920	Thank you. If a child grows up in Syria by parents who have turned their backs on Denmark, by parents who have joined a terrorist organisation that has declared a war in Denmark, then a child who grows up in an environment where there are no Danish values and where Danish values may not be spoken, does the rapporteur really think that this child should be a Danish citizen and can categorize itself as a Dane?
ParlaMint-DK_20191217162947	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217162949	There is no doubt that bringing home children who are perhaps being radicalised will stop radicalisation and stop them growing up with dark forces and ideologies. So that would certainly be an advantage. But in relation to the example that is being set up here, one is of course quite fundamental Dane, if it is someone who has Danish citizenship it goes without saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217163017	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217163019	So let me ask: what defines being Danish? So, if you grow up in an environment where Danish is not spoken, where there are no Danish values, and where the family you grow up with does not consider yourself Danish, what is it at all that contributes anything Danish to that child?
ParlaMint-DK_20191217163035	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217163037	If you feel Danish, you are Danish. That is quite clear and precise.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217163043	Thank you, sir. Kristian Hegaard from the Radical Left. And then it is Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217163129	Thank you. As the rapporteurs in the Chamber and the Minister may see, there is a substitute for the SF today. It is the case that our rapporteur has been prevented, but it should certainly not prevent the SF from giving an indication of where we stand in this matter anyway. Today we are going to deal with one more of these pile proposals, which has gradually become a growing injustice. First of all, I would like to acknowledge that the government has, after all, taken action at the last minute to remove the part of the proposal which seriously threatened to create more stateless children around the world. It would have been a tragedy if Denmark had been directly responsible for such a development. If I still doubt that we in the SF will end up supporting the proposal, it is due to three things. First of all, they try again to punish children for their parents'crazy choices. This is a discussion we have had often here lately, and the SF's attitude has not moved forward. One is that these parents have made a series, one might say, rather wrong choices deliberately, which also allow sympathy to lie in a very small place, but something else is whether their children should be punished for it. And I simply do not think that is fair. Secondly, this proposal simply waters down citizenship as an institution. Because when we talk about the granting of citizenship to newborns, we simply have to tamper with the fundamental aspects of the functioning of citizenship in the international community. Thirdly, we in the SF will follow the work of the committee to ensure that all risks of making children stateless are out of the proposal. Because with the very complex process of this proposal, which we have already been through, we have to admit that we need to have a full overview. The other elements of the proposal I will not spend so much time discussing here at first reading. We really think they deserve their own discussion, but since we are dealing with a comprehensive package of proposals, it will not be possible to give each element the attention it deserves. However, on the part relating to consular assistance, I would like to say that we can well see the difficulty of including in these forms of active outreach help for people like these who have turned their backs on Denmark, and therefore the SF has not automatically rejected the idea either. But we just had to chew on it. We have done so, and we fear that this part of the proposal will also represent another beginning of a deconstruction of the integrity of citizenship, although we recognise the purpose of the proposal and the exceptional situation we find ourselves in. The SF will support at least the proposal of the Association for Legal Policy that it should be stressed that the right to help, if you yourself turn to the diplomatic authorities, remains unchanged. Overall, this bill is a mess shop of various tightenings, and as mentioned, the SF will hardly support the proposal, mainly as a result of the part which deals with newborn citizenship. We are also highly critical of other individual elements. However, we look forward to a more detailed examination of the proposal in future committee work. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217163506	We thank Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk. No one has signed up for comments. That's why it's now, sir. Peder Hvelplund from the Enhedslisten, and there he is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217163517	Thank you for that, President. This bill has four main elements. The Enhedslisten can support one of them, but is fiercely opposed to the other three. I should therefore like to begin by calling on the Minister to share the bill so that the part relating to the decision of the European Court of Justice in the so-called Chebbes case, which improves legal certainty for citizens who stand to lose their Danish citizenship and relatives of these citizens, is distinguished as an independent legislative proposal, which Enhedslisten would like to support. Then I come to the three elements against which Enhedslisten is opposed. Children born in areas where entry and residence are prohibited will in future not automatically have Danish citizenship. In other words, the proposal is to deprive children of a right based on the parents'actions of a thought which ought to be a rule of law foreign to the law, and there may well be acts for which the parents have not even been convicted. We note that, in relation to the original draft law, it has after all been made clear that children must not be born stateless as a result of the amendment of the law. However, a large number of very critical questions remain, not to say judgmental answers, such as: from the Institute for Human Rights, which directly calls for the draft law not to be tabled. The part of the bill which deals with cutting off the right to consular assistance to what is called foreign fighters in the draft law, but which the more rightly should be called foreign warrior suspects, is also deeply problematic. So far, we have paid tribute to the principle that everyone is innocent until proven guilty. We are gradually abolishing this excellent principle. A significant step was taken when a majority in the Folketing recently made it possible to disclaim foreign warrior suspect their Danish citizenship administratively. A new step is being taken today with this bill, because there must only be reason to assume that a Danish citizen is a foreign warrior before an embassy or consulate can refuse to provide consular assistance. It must be said to be a very low level of suspicion. However, give the foreign warrior suspects the same assistance that the Danish foreign service provides to Danes who are suspected of drug smuggling, sexual abuse of children or killing, but who have not yet been convicted of it. The government argues that the foreign warrior suspects have turned their backs on Denmark and Danish values. The same is true of a Dane who travels abroad to smuggle cocaine or rape children, for if we are finally to talk about Danish values, it is surely not a Danish value to smuggle cocaine or rape children. Nevertheless, the Dane accused of such crimes must continue to receive consular help, while the foreign warrior suspect in future must be cut off from it. Why? The final point is the question of imposing requirements on children of parents who are granted citizenship by declaration. There is Enhedslisten completely in line with the Save Children, who points out in the hearing that children are developing psychologically and are thus different from adults. We do not believe that there should be any requirements for children as a secondary person. In this form, Enhedslisten cannot support the bill. We therefore ask, as a minimum, for it to be shared so that we can support one part and then vote against the other three.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217163903	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund from Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217163907	You see, with citizenship, a state defines its people. If the rapporteur accepts that paragraph, the rapporteur does not think that some of the values that the rapporteur himself subscribes to are freedom, democracy, equality, etc. etc. There's nothing that's been kept from anyone. Does the rapporteur not recognise this and does the rapporteur not think that it is gambling with who becomes a citizen of Danish society here?
ParlaMint-DK_20191217164006	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217164008	No, I'm not relativizing anything. I note that there are parents who are Danish nationals... they have been granted Danish citizenship... and if the parents then have a child, it will naturally be the case, according to the law in force, that the child is also a Danish national. We are now depriving the child of that right on the basis of the actions of the parents. Normally our legal view in Denmark is such that we always protect the child, no matter what foolish and irresponsible actions the parents may take. There it will normally be the case that in the case of a child to whom the Danish State has some sort of responsibility, one goes in and protects the child and the child's rights, including against parents who make foolish choices and take irresponsible actions. And that is the principle we depart from here by saying that the Danish state no longer recognises that one has a responsibility in relation to the child we could have protected, a child to whom we could have provided assistance, in that it was a Danish citizen and we therefore had the opportunity to help.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217164108	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217164110	In a situation where, for example, the second citizenship. because the other parent was French or British or Iraqi, does the rapporteur think that the child will have a bad life by having only that citizenship? That's one part. The second part is that, when the rapporteur talks about this with consular assistance, does the rapporteur not see that there is a certain hypocrisy and a strange behavior in that we first do everything we can to combat a free society and afterwards, when we can see that things are not going so well and that we have suddenly got into problems in the caliphate, then suddenly we want the free society to come back and save you?
ParlaMint-DK_20191217164147	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217164150	Firstly, if we take the first part first, it will be with a child who has parents with a different citizenship that it is still the responsibility of the Danish State, in that it is a child with Danish parents and thus a child who would naturally have been a Danish citizen. We must shoulder our responsibilities towards that child rather than just saying that hopefully there is another state that is capable of defending the interests of the child. If it is a child with Danish parents, the Danish state has a responsibility for the life and opportunities of the individual child in the future. On the second part of consular assistance, I would like to say that the whole basis of the rule of law is that you must be allowed to fight the rule of law in which you are. But you still have away the opportunity to be put before a judge, you still have away the opportunity to get a fair trial. You can then also face a punishment if you are found guilty of it. After all, it is the whole basis of our rule of law to say that no matter what conviction you have, you are subject to the same legal certainty as all other citizens. That is what defines the rule of law.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217164250	Thank you, sir. Peder Hvelplund. Then it's the Left, no, the Conservative People's Party, sorry, old habit. Marcus Knuth Thank you, President. It happens to even the best). Sir. Marcus Knuth, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217164302	Thank you, President. I think this bill is a really sensible step in the right direction when it comes to our efforts against Danish Islamists and others who turn their backs on Denmark to go to a conflict area such as Denmark. Syria. I do not think it makes sense that children born to parents who no longer consider themselves Danish and who are fighting Denmark and perhaps even working for a terrorist organisation in the area will automatically become Danish citizens. Is that fair? some may ask. Well it is, since the parents themselves have turned their backs on Denmark and no longer consider themselves Danish and have turned their backs on our Danish values. If we grant Danish citizenship to the children of people who have travelled to e.g. Syria to fight for the Islamic State, yes, then we risk assigning Danish citizenship to children who, and now allow me to quote my good colleague Inger Løjberg from the Left, risk ending up as tiny ticking bombs. The bill here also suggests that the so-called foreign fighters should not expect to receive assistance from our foreign service or embassies, since they have turned their backs on Denmark themselves. I myself once, back in 2014, when working for the External Action Service, had the very dubious pleasure of distributing what is called an emergency passport to a young Danish man with Middle Eastern background who had been inside and working in Syria. This is one of the things I have had the most difficult to do in Danish service ever because it allowed him to return to Denmark at a time when there was no punishment for having been inside Syria. People who have opted out of Denmark or have declared Denmark their enemy should not be able to expect help from Denmark. That is why the Conservative People's Party supports this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217164450	Thank you, sir. Marcus Knuth. Nobody signed up for lines. And from the Conservative People's Party to the alternative. Mrs. Susanne Zimmer, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217164508	Thank you. I'm here on behalf of Sikandar Siddique. The alternative does not support the proposal, and we do not support it for several reasons. Basically, we believe that people should be brought to justice and that it can never be the children of the convicted to be punished. The alternative is that Denmark should apply the standards of the Children's Convention in its exercise of authority and that the draft law does not take sufficient account of the child's best interests. Article 2 of the Convention provides that States are to ensure that children are protected from all forms of discrimination or punishment on the grounds of the child's parents, guardians or family members' position, activity, opinions or beliefs. It must be important that a child is involved when an assessment is made of the acquisition of citizenship because it remains in psychological development and therefore differs from adults. In this context, it is also important to point out that the issue of legislation on the acquisition of Danish citizenship is Danish jurisdiction and that Denmark, with the bill, discriminates against children by depriving a specific group of children of their rights because of the actions of their parents. Having said that, it seems that there is absolutely no trial for the parents' guilt, which only makes the whole thing even more absurd. With the bill, the government can risk punishing the children of parents who are not necessarily or have been foreign fighters. We therefore believe that it is essential that parents be brought to justice and that a decision be taken on their behalf. The principles that people must be convicted before they can be punished must also apply to the issue of assistance from the External Action Service to, for example: children and adults who are being held in war camps like those we now see in Syria. A small positive note in this context is that we note that the government will continue to provide assistance in accordance with the general practice of the EEAS for children who have travelled with their parents to a conflict area or were born in a conflict area. However, we are concerned because assistance is provided on the basis of a concrete assessment of the situation and practical possibilities of the person concerned, including the security situation. This particular estimate has prevented the EEAS from bringing home many Danish children, for example. camps in Syria. In relation to the right of the EEAS to refuse assistance to adult persons, it is the alternative that the assistance of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is in the nature of actual management activities, with the consequence that the rules of the Administrative Act on reasons and consultation of the parties are not applicable. However, it seems contrary to fundamental principles of legal certainty to be cut off from the assistance of the authorities without knowing the reasons for this and without access to justice. We believe that the person who is supposed to be a foreign warrior or to have been in a conflict area has party powers, including justification, party consultation, etc., as well as that the person is covered by the provision and is given the opportunity to defend himself against the accusations in the general criminal procedure. So, to end where I started, I would like to say that we cannot support this proposal, because we believe it is imperative in a rule of law that people are brought to justice and that it should never be the children of the convicted to be punished.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217164845	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217164847	Does the rapporteur not think that it is a paradox that the alternative, which is usually in favour of diversity and the well-being of different nations in co-existence, paints a picture of a child being punished, for example. is born a French or Iraqi or Spanish citizen? Isn't that paradoxical?
ParlaMint-DK_20191217164907	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217164908	What is important is that we look after the interests of children and follow the Convention on the Rights of the Child. So we have to look at this situation as we do and have this position on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217164918	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217164922	How can it be contrary to a child's interest to be born as such? Iraqi or Spanish citizen?
ParlaMint-DK_20191217164928	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217164930	Now we're talking about children who have parents that the government with this bill considers to be foreign fighters. They don't exist in other countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217164943	We thank Mrs Susanne Zimmer. No one else has signed up for short remarks. Then we shall give the floor to Mrs Mette Thiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217165000	Thank you. There is no doubt that this bill has many good tactics and that it is a step in the right direction. At the same time, however, it is a proposal which does not go far enough, and there are also a number of points which cause us to have concerns that it will not solve the problems. There are simply too many holes. The proposal, for example, takes into account: not take into account that a child of IS terrorists may one day be able to act as the entry ticket for their parents' return to Denmark. This fear will last as long as the vast majority of politicians place the consideration of obsolete conventions above the concern for the safety and security of the Danes. At the same time, I doubt the impact of the new crime demands placed on the sidelines, but even one case of principle that is intercepted is, of course, welcome. This bill calls for EU law to apply to cases where Denmark is deprived of citizenship by law if EU citizenship is lost at the same time. However, the EU has no formal competence to determine who is to be a national of Denmark. Nevertheless, the European Court of Justice has extended the scope of EU law over and over again. It is reprehensible. The European Court of Justice can undoubtedly be expected to set an unfairly high standard of when a withdrawal is objectively justified and proportionate. And it will not therefore be Danish interests that are taken into account, because the interest of the European Court of Justice is not Danish self-determination or the safety and security of the Danes. It is therefore very regrettable that this part has been added to the legislative proposal. In New Citizens we support the draft law as a starting point, but in the committee work we will work for the inappropriate parts to be removed and all the gaps to be patched up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217165209	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund has asked for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217165213	The rapporteur does not think that the proposal goes far enough on the question that we do not want to make children stateless, but how will the rapporteur prevent Afghanistan, Somalia, Iran and other countries from deciding that children born in Denmark, for example, should be born in Denmark? Iranian citizens, not to be born stateless? How will the rapporteur avoid this if we go down that road ourselves, and if so, how will we continue to argue coherently that we do not believe that children should be born stateless?
ParlaMint-DK_20191217165251	Now it wasn't the one with stateless persons that I specifically mentioned as one of the gaps. It is clear, of course, that I and we are elected in the Folketing to defend the interests of the Danes and protect the Danes, so that is of course what we work from.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217165308	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217165310	However, does the rapporteur not agree that when one criticises the government for not putting forward a legislative proposal where the consequence may be that children become stateless, there is something that is not connected if, at the same time, we want to prevent other countries from having children born stateless in Denmark? I assume that the rapporteur and I agree that we do not want that. Is there not some inconsistency in the argument?
ParlaMint-DK_20191217165336	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217165338	I have some doubts as to whether the rapporteur has come to confuse my speech with the speech made by the Danish People's Party just now. I have not specifically mentioned this about becoming a stateless person, but I have, of course, mentioned this so far in connection with the IS terrorists, whom I whistle-blowingly do not care if they become stateless. What I am pointing out with, for example, this bill is, among other things, that it does not take into account the fact that the children of the IS terrorists will act as an entry ticket, that, after this Chebbesdom, a lot will be transferred to the European Court of Justice, which will have to go in and assess this with EU citizenship, etc. etc. However, as I also replied to the rapporteur before, my main interest is in safeguarding Denmark and Denmark's interests and the interests of the Danes and not everything else.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217165426	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217165430	It was only because the rapporteur just said that she does not care about the IS terrorists, i.e. whether they become stateless. I believe that the rapporteur has established that this message is the policy of the party. I just have to be absolutely sure: does this also mean that the rapporteur does not care whether children become stateless?
ParlaMint-DK_20191217165448	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217165453	In other words, I have become aware of an amendment which the Danish People's Party is going to table, and I clearly expect that New Citizens will support that. After all, this is about these IS terrorists making a choice; that choice will also have an impact on their children. Now it is the case that there are a lot of children around the world for whom the parents have made some really bad choices, and all these children are not the responsibility of the Danish people either. As I mentioned earlier, it is also deeply problematic that this proposal does not take account of the fact that these children have the opportunity to simply become an entry ticket for these IS terrorists so that they come back to Denmark, and we have absolutely no interest in that in any way whatsoever.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217165535	Sir. Ammitzbøll-Bille.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217165538	I think that is what Mrs Mette Thiesen used to call a real politician's answer, because what I asked was: does Mrs Mette Thiesen also whistle about whether the children are taken out yes or no? Whistling doesn't care questioning.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217165552	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217165554	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217165558	No one else signed up. Thank you to Mrs Mette Thiesen. Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217165613	Thank you for the floor. L 83 is a good bill, and it is because it has as a side effect that it cleans up a little in the 1990s rhetoric that still thrives around the Folketing. During the legislative process, we have already established that it is not a human right or a right to be a Danish citizen, and that is a very important principle to establish. It is and it must be a political decision. That is the whole point of Article 44 of the Constitution. It is politics who should be Danish citizens. And it's a principle that we stick to with this bill. Then with this bill we also stick to the principle that Denmark is part of a wide-ranging multilateral cooperation that we have been part of since World War II. We are a very small country, and we cannot do without allies. Alliances are achieved by engaging in multilateral cooperation and, in concrete terms, this means that we stick with the draft law within the stateless Convention, and that is also positive. Then I would like to come back to the political decision to become a citizen. Here we are moving away from a thinking of rights which, for decades, has shifted decisions from political to other fora, and it is good that we stop doing so. In the recent case where the police arrested 22 people suspected of planning an Islamist terrorist attack, it has already emerged from court reports and something that has been known for a long time that terrorists who are apprehended are usually part of a network. They are part of what Helmut Schmidt left during the red terror of the 1970s called the sympathy swamp. The starting point for a political decision in this case must be the probability that such an IS child, if I may say so, will return to Denmark and become part of the sympathy swamp. It simply makes the sympathy swamp bigger. And, of course, it cannot be the intention that the sympathizer swamp should become bigger, and we will have a good opportunity to regulate it or get a little bit more under control with the bill here. The fact that the benefactors will also play a role in the future is such a sort of clean-up or common sense. We are pleased that this is included, and that is why we support the draft law. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217165916	No one has signed up with brief remarks to Mr. Henrik Dahl. Then I shall give the floor to Mr Seligman. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217165933	The bill we are looking at here has a number of elements. However, I think that what one must think first and foremost when one sees it is to remember that children are children and that the rule of law is worth fighting for. These are two things that are not entirely in line with this bill. Children are children, and children are innocent of their parents'actions. They cannot be sanctioned on the basis of what their parents have done. They cannot lose rights on the basis of what their parents have done. It should be absolutely fundamental. Unfortunately, with this bill, we are abandoning this principle and saying that children must be punished and deprived of rights on the basis of what their parents have done. Let it be no doubt that if people are fighting for the Islamic State or the like, there is no need to have any sympathy for those people, and there is really no reason but to have abhorrence for those people who want to abolish democracy, fundamental rights and inflict suffering and death on other people. But it just has nothing to do with their kids. This has nothing to do with their children. And the children who have Danish parents have been able to be sure until today that they would have the opportunity to become Danish. Of course they do. That is the right which the government is proposing to abolish by means of the legislative proposal we are discussing here. I just have to say that that element alone seems to me to be making it extremely difficult to support this bill. Unfortunately, that is not surprising. We live in times when the rule of law is being discussed in such a way that it is characterised as fine French principles. It is quite strange that fine French principles should be something bad; that sounds really good. Finer French cooking is apparently a newer variant of what is wrong with the rule of law. I really think that is deeply problematic and that it is interesting to see that, in what former Foreign Minister Per Stig Møller has said, our society is, as it were, on a number of feet: a free market, a people's government and a rule of law, one leg of the times is faltering. There I think we should be more shoulder to shoulder with the rule of law and, in this case, with the children's side. We have to say that, and I admit that, and I am glad that the government has drawn a little bit ashore. Now you don't want to make the children stateless, you say. Thank you. After all, that is a small concession in the right direction. One must then just hope that no other country will come up with the same kind of legislation as Denmark. Because how do you actually solve it if all countries start making Danish legislation? Then everyone gets their citizenship taken away, and then they're probably at risk of being stateless. Can they keep one or the other or both? It's an element I can't really figure out how to get. It may be that the Minister will answer it when he gets on the floor in a moment. In any case, children are children, and I stand by that and therefore, of course, am voting against it alone. Then there is also the question of consular assistance for these suspected foreign fighters, which is a possibility of making restrictions on. I also find it difficult to understand the deeper meaning of that. I also find it a little difficult to understand what the logic is in that it is exactly them. What about others? Other rapporteurs have also mentioned this, others who are suspected of other unpleasant crimes. Are we also going to discuss whether they can get consular assistance, and is that just the first part of such a domino effect that we are about to look at here? I am voting against the bill, fighting for the rule of law, for the children and hoping for the best.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217170326	Thank you, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille. No one has signed up and so I shall give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217170335	First of all, thank you for today's debate on this bill. I think it is positive that we can also debate these a little difficult issues with each other in a good and proper way. Our position in the government is that the parents who take their children down to the Islamic State, or who have had children down there, have given the children the worst possible start to life, and also for that reason we should do what we can to prevent and prevent people from travelling to these areas. Children born in conflict areas do not grow up in conditions where it can be expected that there will be cohesion with Denmark and democratic values. The draft law therefore provides that children born in the areas where entry or residence is punishable will not automatically receive Danish citizenship at birth unless the child becomes stateless. Hopefully, it will prevent Danish citizens from entering areas with entry and residence bans and establishing a family there. The amendment of the law will only apply to children born in the areas after the law has entered into force, but not in cases where it will result in the newborn children becoming stateless. We do not want to risk children ending up in conflict zones as stateless persons. In addition, the draft law proposes amendments to the law on citizenship, which are not initiatives in relation to foreign fighters. It is proposed that children should meet the requirement not to have committed serious crime if they are to become Danish as a secondary to their parents, i.e. the so-called benevolent requirement. Today it is the case that a child of a person who becomes naturalised will automatically become Danish as a secondary to the parents if the child meets a number of conditions. If the child, or in this context more closely a young person, has committed crime, the person must be actively exempted from the acquisition by stating it in the bill on citizenship notice. This means, among other things, that: some practical challenges in cases where a child commits crime immediately before a bill on citizenship notification is adopted. That is why we are proposing a change in the system so that it is no longer necessary to exempt a child from a bill on citizenship notification if he or she has committed crime, which means that he or she does not comply with the requirement of good repute imposed on parents. The child will thus automatically not become a Danish national if the child does not fulfil the requirement of good repute. In the case of children of parents who become Danish by declaration, there is no requirement of good character today. The government is therefore proposing with the bill to introduce a requirement of good repute, so that the child has to meet the same standard of good repute as that imposed on the professing parent. It is perhaps worth noting that the requirement of vandalism is of course only relevant to young people over the low age of criminality, which is currently 15 years old. The draft law also proposes that the rules on the revocation and disqualification of Danish citizenship be amended and clarified in order to bring the law into line with EU law. This is because, in March of this year, the European Court of Justice delivered a judgment on Dutch rules on the forfeiture of citizenship. As a result of the judgment, the Ministry will have to include a number of additional elements in the examination of applications for proof of Danish nationality in the light of the judgment, with a view to carrying out an individual review of the effects in relation to Union law of the revocation of Danish citizenship and hence of citizenship of the Union. The same applies to the refusal of nationality in the judgment on the grounds of fraud, where a number of additional factors will also have to be included in the judgment. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration is therefore proposing a clarification of the rules with the bill. In cases concerning the disqualification of Danish nationality as a result of fraud, where the disqualification of Danish nationality at the same time results in the loss of his or her citizenship of the Union, it is specified that it must be included in the assessment whether the disqualification of citizenship in a disproportionate way affects the normal development of his or her work and family life in relation to Union law. The Ministry or the courts will therefore have to assess whether the loss of citizenship of the Union is proportional to the purpose of the revocation or refusal. The change also means that children do not automatically lose their right of birth if parents lose their right of birth according to the provision, but that children may lose their right of birth on the basis of a concrete assessment. It is therefore also necessary, in relation to children, to make a concrete assessment of the effects here in relation to Union law, including whether the consequences of the loss are not in the best interests of the child. Finally, a proposal from the Foreign Minister has been included in the draft law. The so-called foreign warriors who have fought against the Danish values of democracy and freedom are undesirable in Denmark, as the government has repeated several times. When they left Denmark, they turned their backs on the Danish population and the Danish state and now cannot reasonably expect the Danish foreign service to provide them with assistance abroad. In our view, therefore, as part of the overall Danish action against foreign fighters, provision should be made for the possibility of cutting off or restricting foreign warriors' access to consular assistance and other assistance from the External Action Service. That is precisely what the Foreign Minister's part of the draft law will allow. Specifically, these are persons who have reason to believe that the person concerned has entered or resided without authorisation in one of the so-called prohibited areas designated by the Minister of Justice under the Criminal Code or where the person concerned has taken part in activities abroad which may pose or increase a threat to the security of the State or other States. With the proposed amendment of the law, Denmark can cut off or limit its assistance to foreign fighters abroad, such as: prison visits or attendance at hearings. Children of foreign fighters are not subject to the amendment of the law. However, persons under the age of 18 may be subject to the amendment of the law if there are grounds for believing that the person himself is a foreign warrior. In those words, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for a good debate, I think. I am now looking forward to the further examination of the bill here in the Danish Parliament and, of course, I am available to answer any questions that may arise in connection with the examination of the legislative proposal, both in the Chamber and in the subsequent reading of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217171026	Thank you, Minister. There are questions, and the first is from Mr. Kristian Hegaard from the Radicals.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217171037	Thank you. What we have discussed today in particular is that with this bill it will be the actions of parents, the actions of parents who are now causing children to be deprived of the right they currently have to Danish citizenship which they could have obtained under the current rules. I would therefore like to ask whether the Minister agrees with the hearing answer given by the Association for Legal Affairs that since 1849 Danish legislation has not seen that the old Testament principle that the sins of the fathers haunt the children has been based on the legal status of children.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217171120	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217171121	I do not agree that it is an old Testament principle that is being introduced by this bill. Actually, I'm not. There is no question of anyone being punished. It is a question of some children getting a citizenship other than a Danish one, and I think that this is just off the road, given that it is some parents who have been taken out of Denmark, into another country where it is illegal to stay, illegally to enter, who has had a child with a foreigner and who would otherwise have had a child who would have received a dual citizenship. Then I think it is perfectly reasonable to say: we do not consider the family you are setting up, for example. in the caliphate, as a Danish family, and as a result it is quite straight off the road, and of course the child is not Danish either.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217171208	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217171210	Does the Minister think that, in order to obtain Danish citizenship, children are in a better or worse legal position following this bill, which is unfortunately expected to be adopted?
ParlaMint-DK_20191217171225	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217171226	If it had been a child, for example. had had a Danish-Turkish citizenship, that is to say a dual citizenship, and in future it would only be a child who wanted Turkish citizenship, that child would have some rights as a Turkish citizen. It is clear that the child will have fewer rights in Denmark, for example. not be able to enter Denmark or serve as an anchor for family reunification with parents. It is also one of the aims of the draft law, namely that we want to avoid some of those people coming to Denmark. Another purpose is prevention, so to say to people: don't go into these areas, don't go down there, don't start a family, if you go down there, you've crossed a red line, and then we'll do what we can to make sure you don't have the opportunity to go back.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217171309	Sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217171312	Thank you to the Minister for the speech. I think we can at least begin by stating that this is a new break here, where we say that children are losing a right based on parents' actions. This is, of course, a different approach than we usually have, both in relation to it as the rule of law, but also in relation to the view of people that we normally have when it comes to children's rights, namely that we must always protect the interests of the child. But in relation to the reply that the Minister just gave to Mr. Kristian Hegaard, I would like to ask whether the Minister does not see that it works a little double when they say that if the child has a dual citizenship, then we just assume that there is another state that can take care of the child's interests. What if the other state has the same approach as the minister and has a desire to deprive the child of that citizenship as well? Isn't it gonna be a strange situation to put the baby in? And shouldn't Denmark just say that since it is a child born of parents with Danish citizenship, the Danish state has a duty, of course?
ParlaMint-DK_20191217171416	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217171417	To the extent that a child is born with Danish citizenship, the Danish state has an obligation. But these children will not be born with Danish citizenship. I think it might also be important to try to start up a little in the helicopter. There are some people who travel out of our society, down to participate in a war on the other side of the front than where we stand. They are on the side of barbarism, they are not on the side of democracy. Then they fight for the barbarity, they fight against us and our allies. There are people who have lost their lives because of it. So they choose to start a family, and then the question is: is it a Danish family they are setting up if they have had children with a foreigner? There's just our answer: No, you've crossed a red line. You have turned your back on Denmark, and all we can do to prevent you coming back to Denmark, we are going to do. Some of it is prevention. It is to say very clearly to people that you cannot go down there and play holy warrior and then, if you lose, come crawling back with consular assistance and with the entire Danish state in the back. To the extent that we have the opportunity to tell people that they have chosen side, that they have made their decision, we will do so, and that is what this bill and other initiatives are part of.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217171532	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217171533	Thank you. I do not think that this is a perfectly correct description of the draft law that the Minister is giving here. Because there are no parents convicted of being foreign fighters. We are talking alone about parents who have entered an area in which it is forbidden to enter. After all, it is not parents who have been convicted of crimes or convicted of being foreign fighters. It is simply a matter of their being in the wrong place at the wrong time. There may be all sorts of strange reasons why they do, and most of them are probably some really bad reasons. But it just doesn't change the fact that we're punishing the child for some actions that the parents are committing. There is no question of them necessarily being foreign warriors. They may be suspected of being foreign fighters. But the most accurate thing is to say that they have entered an area in which they are not allowed to enter.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217171621	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217171622	Yes, but after all, it's illegal to enter these areas and stay in these areas, and that has consequences. This bill is for the future. I look forward to it being adopted, because then we can cry out from the rooftops, that if you turn your back on Danish society, turn your back on democracy, join the criminal ideology and fight against everything we stand for, you have to know that you have gone down a one-way street. Then you can't regret halfway and come crawling back with the Danish consulates in the back. I think that is quite fair and we need to be a little more direct with the young people who are flirting with these thoughts. And one of the initiatives is to say that if you go down there and start a family, it is not as a starting point a Danish family.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217171704	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217171706	So you want to prevent the actions of adults by depriving their children of their rights. That is what is being said by the Minister from the platform. So much for the Minister to become a minister in a government for the children. After all, it was the Prime Minister of the children who heard the Social Democratic President stay when she became Prime Minister, and now children are apparently to be used as a tool in preventing the actions of their parents. It's pretty violent anyway. That is what we are talking about, and that is also what the Minister admits from the platform. Then I asked a question in my speech during the legislative procedure. It is: What if the other country has the same rules as Denmark? So does the rule come into force that you can never become a stateless person? So if the other country in which you have citizenship has the same rule of depriving citizenship in advance, will you still be born as a Danish citizen, or how do these things relate?
ParlaMint-DK_20191217171807	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217171809	The fact that the bill also has a prevention element is not an admission I make from the Parliament's platform. That is quite clear in the draft law. Prevention is one of the aims of the law, and I believe that it will have an effect. I would also like to ask Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille to consider whether it really is not in the children's interest for this bill to be passed to prevent parents from leaving at all. That is one thing I wanted to say. The other is: we are not going to make children stateless. This has been important to the government, and this is clear from the draft law. So if there is a child, as with existing legislation, for example. will become a Danish-Turkish national, and Turkey will adopt similar legislation so that the child is only a Danish citizen when it comes out of the stomach, well then the child will only become a Danish citizen when it comes out of the stomach.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217171905	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217171908	Thanks for the answer lately. That's fine. I just want to say that I do not think it will be beneficial either to the children or to Denmark. That's why I'm against it. I do not think it will benefit the children who are born in the war zones of the Middle East and will rot in a desert landscape because the Folketing adopts this bill. It's not for their benefit. Nor do I believe that it will be to the advantage of Denmark when they grow up and become bitter at the Danish state and run around and can become potential terrorists. So I don't think it's going to be an advantage for Denmark to adopt this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217171941	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217171942	Each of us can guess and believe that. I would just like to appeal to the Folketing both to consider that there is also a security aspect in this, because children born as Danish citizens have the opportunity to obtain documents so that they can enter the Danish community and act as anchors in a family reunification case, and also to consider that it has been too cheap for people to turn their backs on our society by going into these areas and fighting everything we stand for. We could hear Mr. Marcus Knuth tells from the platform what it like. had consequences. We simply cannot continue to look at this. This proposal is a step in the right direction and, together with some of the other proposals put forward by the government, I think we are making it less cheap to turn our backs on our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217172029	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217172031	Thank you. I heard the Minister say just now that the main reason why children born in this Islamic State area should not automatically have Danish citizenship is that they want to prevent them from acting like an anchor that will be able to draw their parents, who are probably jihadists, to Denmark. My question is this: the children who have the opportunity to acquire another citizenship will be able to act as an anchor to draw the jihadist parents to Denmark, but what about the children who are at risk of being born stateless? Will they not be able to act in the same way as an anchor that can draw their possible jihadist families to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20191217172129	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217172130	I do not know whether I have called it the main reason, but that is at least one of the reasons why this bill has been tabled, because it has family reunification consequences that people are born with Danish citizenship in these areas. That is why it is a difficult balance and a difficult balance. In fact, within the framework of the conventions, we can adopt some legislation which makes these children stateless. But politically, we just think it is wrong, because it is a step in the wrong direction that more stateless children will be born. We are in the process of limiting statelessness, and that is the path we must take.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217172206	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217172208	I am well aware that the government believes in conventions that others believe in sacred writings, but the Minister has to admit that because of that faith you create some anchors that can get jihadists to Denmark. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20191217172229	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217172231	The same thing will happen if, for example, two Danish citizens travel into these areas and have a child, for then the child will have only one citizenship, namely the Danish one, and then that child will also have the opportunity to obtain documents and be able to enter the Danish society. So we cannot escape the fact that no matter how we turn it or how we deal with it, there will be security aspects and challenges in it. And it is a huge challenge for Danish society that people have lived down there, sometimes for several years, and have the opportunity to either enter Denmark themselves or for example. to have a child who can thus act as an anchor for family reunification.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217172309	We thank the Minister. In fact, no more people have signed up for short remarks. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Bodily Rights and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217172333	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday, 19 December. To come up and justify the question, I should like to welcome Mrs Jane Heitmann from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217172434	Thank you, President. The question debate on the government's financial priorities in the area of dementia has been convened by the parties of the Left, the Danish People's Party and the Conservative People's Party. When we have called the question here, it is because we were truly somewhat puzzled when it became clear that the government would only continue three of the 23 initiatives of the dementia action plan. This is a completely unreasonable priority and neglect of an important area of action, because we are far from achieving the goal of strengthening and improving the efforts of our demente and their relatives. A targeted focus, for example, is still needed. medicine, skills among the staff who care for demented, activities for demented and relief of relatives, to mention just a few examples. Now, as you know, the situation is different from when we called for the debate, because we succeeded and we are pleased to move the government so that funds have now been provided and the dementia action plan can be continued. That's all I needed. We look forward to a fruitful debate, and we look forward to hearing the Socialist Government's response to the question, which is as follows: what can the Minister say about the government's financial law priorities for the dementia area and the continuation of the existing dementia action plan?
ParlaMint-DK_20191217172603	Thank you to the rapporteur for the questions. And the next speaker to answer the question is the Minister for Health and the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217172621	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Left, the Danish People's Party and the Conservative People's Party for calling this evening's debate. In January 2017, an agreed pool of bets published a safe and dignified life with dementia • National dementia action plan 2025 •. This is a fine action plan with 23 concrete initiatives designed to ensure that people with dementia and their relatives have a safe and dignified life with dementia. I think that is a good ambition. I fully support it, and we can also hear that a united circle of bets did. People with dementia are some of our weakest. We must protect them both themselves and their relatives. A large number of these 23 initiatives have now been implemented and have the character of various tools which have been made available to, among others, municipalities and regions. This is true, for example. The three national clinical guidelines of the Danish Health Authority in the field of dementia are called Initiative 3. Handbooks on social and health practices have been developed in the field of dementia. There is the toolkit with patient and relatives courses developed by the National Knowledge Centre for Dementia, which is now available. 11. The rules on the use of power have been changed to make them more up-to-date and comprehensible to employees. 9. This means that once those tools have been developed, they should not be developed again. Then they are available and can e.g. is used in everyday life in nursing homes and hospitals to ensure a safe and dignified life with dementia. These are initiatives of this kind. But then there are other 23 initiatives in the dementia action plan for which no funds had been allocated from the outset, either because there has been permanent funding elsewhere. permanentisation of the National Knowledge Centre for Dementia, Initiative No. 20 or because these are initiatives where no funds had been set aside from the outset. That is, for example, the case. the call for the Danish Society for General Medicine to update their guidance on dementia in general practice. So there are a number of initiatives in the dementia action plan, which will also contribute, without further funding, to ensuring that people with dementia can experience a safe and dignified life. At the same time, since the agreement on the dementia action plan, a number of initiatives have been launched in the field of dementia, with the broad support of the Danish Parliament's parties. This is, for example, an action plan to prevent and manage outgoing behaviour in the care of the elderly; it is about better help for citizens with dementia in the public space by means of dementia and voluntary security for people with dementia in hospitals. It is therefore also initiatives to ensure that people with dementia and their relatives can live a safe and dignified life with dementia. Having said that, there are also parts of the dementia action plan where it is essential that we continue to support it. It is for this reason that the government, together with a wide range of parties in the Folketing, has concluded an agreement on the mobilisation of the reserve for social, health and labour market measures, which means that a total of 244 million will be set aside. kr. to follow up on the dementia action plan for 12 concrete interventions. I would like to take this opportunity from the Chair of Parliament to sign our joint agreement with all the parties behind the agreement. There is no doubt that these were long and difficult negotiations, since, as you know, there were far fewer funds than in the past in the negotiations on the tariff pool. I think that together we found a sensible solution by giving priority to 100 million. kr. from the system of good elderly life to a follow-up to the dementia action plan, a follow-up which among other things: This means that funds for more specialised and multidisciplinary investigation and treatment units are given priority at 60 million. kr.; monitoring and learning efforts to reduce the consumption of antipsychotic medicines for people with dementia as well as learning efforts in relation to pain relief • 4 million. kr.; dissemination of the system in safe hands, so that, for example, medical errors are minimized, to 16 million. kr.; pool of practical skills to reduce the consumption of antipsychotic medicines to 24 million. kr.; continuation of a dementia travel team with a special focus on reducing the consumption of antipsychotic medicines to 20 million. kr.; extension of existing advisory and activity centres to 52 million; kr.; more, better and more flexible relief services for people with dementia and their relatives at 40 million. kr.; pool for local and nationwide dementia-friendly activities, including dementia-friendly living conditions for people with dementia with their relatives, to 16 million. kr.; and then we have also chosen to continue the price of the year and, as a new feature, introduced a price for the next year's relatives to a total of 0.4 million. kr. It is therefore a total of 12 specific initiatives which must also contribute to ensuring that people with dementia have a safe and much more dignified life with dementia. After all, I think that these are all, and we can probably agree on that because we are all in the agreement, very good initiatives. Nevertheless, I also think we owe it to each other here today to say to each other that this kind of initiative does not do so alone. We also need to look at the figures, and there we can see that it is not progressing at the pace that was hoped for when the three national targets for dementia efforts were made towards 2025. It was, after all, a united circle of movements that set them up, and there are three objectives. One is that Denmark must have 98 dementia-friendly municipalities. Objective Two is that 80%. must have a specific diagnosis and Objective No. 3 is that the consumption of antipsychotic medicines should be reduced by 50 per cent. We can see that the figures for the proportion of dementia sufferers receiving a specific investigation have not yet moved forward. We can see that the consumption of antipsychotic medicines is constantly at an excessively high level. And although the Dementia Action Plan made a lot of good initiatives, I think we owe it to each other to say that it also matters that in many places in our care for the elderly and in our health care, there is too much running. Although many of our employees are experts in hurrying slowly when they associate with people with dementia, in many places it is difficult for employees to get the ends to meet. Therefore, it is also essential that the many concrete efforts in the field of dementia be seen in the context of what is otherwise a priority in the area of health and the elderly. We have already concluded an economic agreement with the municipalities, which means that next year the municipalities will have 1.7 billion. kr. more than the year before to spend on welfare, which is more than the last four years of municipal agreements combined together.In the same way, we have agreed with the regions that their economy is increasing by 1.5 billion. kr. more than the previous year. I myself stood next to the Left's Stephanie Lose, the chairman of the Danish Regions, when we presented the agreement on the region's economy, and heard her say: the agreement provides the biggest boost to health since the financial crisis. So when the economy of the municipalities is raised more, there is a better opportunity for them to provide better care for the elderly, and when the economy of the regions is raised accordingly, there is a better opportunity for them to provide good treatment. And both are, of course, the whole basis for people with dementia to live a safe and dignified life. But we have also indicated on the part of the government that this is only the first step. The Minister of Finance will later in this parliamentary year make a proposal for a welfare law aimed at ensuring that the demographic move is also covered in the coming years. And can I not just appeal here to all the parties that agree that, when there are more older people and more children, we should keep up with them, that they are considering voting in favour of the future welfare law. It is crucial how much money you have, but it is not the only thing that matters. It is also important that we do not pretend ourselves that now all the tiptops are everywhere, although of course we all wish it was so. Because, unfortunately, we still hear about individual cases, sometimes through members of parliament who get to know it, and sometimes I myself get on Facebook or know that people write to me and sometimes through the media • examples that people with dementia have not received the care, the treatment, the care that we all want so fervently that they should have, and that is absolutely essential for them to have a safe and dignified life with dementia. I have to say that I understand why it has been tempted in the past to introduce new rules, for example. individual cases, so that you can ensure that you do not see such cases again on the front page of the Ekstrabladet. None of us want to see it. One thing is to see it in the paper, another thing is to think about the people who are both relatives and those who have dementia as they suffer. The only problem is that such new rules arising from a single case on the front page of a newspaper, in various areas combined, mean more new rules, while employees experience more and more claims being placed on them and a day-to-day life that is not connected at all. It is then that the employees end up feeling that they are spending too much time clicking on screens rather than doing what was why they went into the profession, namely providing good and dignified care for the elderly and making a difference to the older citizens, who every day are completely dependent on the help they receive from our skilled care staff. So here at the end, to sum up, I would like to say that this government wants to go all the way around the dementia area. That is why the Finance Act on which we will vote tomorrow contains a follow-up to the Dementia Action Plan, so that municipalities, regions and others have the right tools. At the same time, the Finance Act also provides a much needed financial injection to the municipalities and regions so that they can provide a care, care and treatment for people with dementia who can help ensure that we reach the goal of giving people with dementia and their relatives a safe and dignified life with dementia. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217173743	Thank you for that, and now we have one brief comment to make to the rapporteurs, and a few have asked for it. The first is Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217173752	Thank you for that and thank the Minister for his speech. After all, we were a number of parties who were concerned because the government had not allocated any more funds to the dementia area, and it was also a tough debate to increase the funding for the dementia action plan so that we did not end up in an amputated dementia action plan. kr. I would ask the Minister if he could ensure that some of these funds go directly to the elderly? Because none of these funds are earmarked. So it's all about priorities in the municipality, and if the municipality, as we have seen with the rock map scheme, has chosen not to give it priority, they can spend this money on anything other than the elderly, including demented and help for the relatives. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20191217173856	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217173857	First of all, I fully agree that these were long and tough negotiations. I would like to sign the Danish People's Party's rapporteur for this effort: thank you for your efforts. It can be seen in the deal that you've been there, too, so thank you for that. Then I would say that when I was in the municipal negotiations with mayors, whose main argument was demography, and the figures shown showed that when more children are born, which is positive, and we are getting many more older, which is positive, we can see that this is also a burden on public funds. It is the municipalities that are responsible for our care for the elderly and our childcare and schools, and when their main argument was that and their calculations were about it, I think the only thing we can do by the government is deliver on it. This has not been done in the past, but I think it should be done, and it is, of course, up to the municipalities, which are close to the citizens, close to the elderly, to translate that money because we have municipal autonomy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217174001	Thank you, and the next for a brief comment is Mrs Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217174003	Thank you. I have heard the Minister repeatedly say that this government puts welfare first. I have also read the answers given by the Minister to S 68, S 44 and Question No. 30. There the Minister writes every time at the beginning of a section: this government puts welfare first, or something like that. It certainly sounds rather hollow when we saw the government's proposal for a budget law where there was nothing in the area of the elderly. The government is hiding again and again behind a municipal agreement, which we do not really know where to go with the elderly, because the Minister cannot answer how much money from the municipal agreement is actually going with the elderly. In his speech, the Minister mentioned the project called 'I secure hands', which was, after all, a stake-pool project that we launched relatively shortly ago. We know that far too many elderly people are receiving psychotic medicines, and I would like to ask the Minister: if we are now to reduce the number of elderly people receiving psychotic medicines, it will require effort on the Danish... What did I say? The Minister for Health and the Elderly is psychotic!). Did I say psychotic medicine? Oh, that's funny. Antipsychotic medicine, I mean. I can't even blame my voice, it's all rusty. If we are now to reduce the number of elderly people receiving anti- psychotic medicines, we have to do so, among other things. In the nursing homes, therefore, I would like to ask the Minister: how many nursing homes are included in what is called safe hands?
ParlaMint-DK_20191217174139	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217174140	If the questioner has found a common thread in my answers, I am very proud of it. That is certainly the intention, I can say. We put welfare first, and if you compare our municipal agreement with the first two years of municipal agreements of the government in which the author's party was sitting, you can see that there was a minus of 0.5 billion. kr. year one, and next year there was another minus 0.5 billion. kr. And then you have to start filling up from a minus. What we are delivering is a completely different priority for welfare: a plus of 1.7 billion. kr., and then we put upstairs with dementia action plan and finance law. That is precisely what we mean by putting welfare first. On the specific question, I would like to say that I will be very careful to make a figure on this. That's why I promise I'll go back to the ministry and get the right number. I mean to remember that we had it up and I have a figure which I am almost sure of, but because I stand here as minister, I will be very careful to say the right number. I hope that the questioner will be in favour of finding the specific figure, and then I will provide it as an answer to the Folketing if there is a question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217174247	Thank you. There are no more brief comments in this round, so we shall now proceed to the debate and the general rules for short remarks. And the first to be on the platform is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mrs Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217174312	Thank you for the floor. We called for this question debate before the negotiations on the pool reserve fell into place. We did so because we in the Left were genuinely concerned about the consequences of the government's launching to run away from the vast majority of the dementia action plan. And the truth is that the government was somewhat surprising in proposing to continue only 3 of a total of 23 initiatives in the area of dementia. Fortunately, we in the Left had to change this and the pressure of several parties forced the Socialists to accept an economic priority of 244.4 million. kr. over 4 years. And now the dementia action plan is back on track, and we are proud of that, because our demente and their relatives need a focus both today and tomorrow on the dementia area. We need to continue to offer good activity and relief to our demented and their relatives, to work with targeted efforts to reduce the consumption of antipsychotic medicines among demented people, and to improve early investigation so that in the future we can also have a sharp focus on staff skills raising, so that they are always dressed for the difficult task of minding a dementia. The figures speak their clear language. Several municipalities have become dementia-friendly, but the number of demented people receiving antipsychotic medicines has not moved as we would like. And there are major regional differences in how many elderly people are receiving antipsychotic medicines. 22% of the dementia sufferers in the Capital Region have cashed a prescription for antipsychotic medicine, while it is only 14 per cent. in Region Nordjylland. There are also major differences on the diagnostic side. 42.6% in the Capital Region gets a specific dementia diagnosis, while in the Region of Southern Denmark the figure is as high as 74.4%. From this point of view, I am surprised that the government has not given priority to the elderly and the dementes of the Finance Act. The government is hiding again and again behind a municipal agreement, but we cannot get an answer as to how much really goes to the elderly area. And I hope that the Minister will take the floor again and that he will then give us a clear answer as to how much of the municipal agreement really lifts the area of the elderly. For it is a free round when you hide behind the fig leaf that the municipality agreement is. Demente is entitled to a dignified life, period. It is estimated that about 15,000 Danes are affected by dementia every year, and today at least 35,000 people over 65 years of age have dementia. The figure may be much higher, and we can expect that the figure will increase as there are more elderly people. By 2030, we can expect 230,000 more elderly people; it calls for development and not for dismantling, as the Social Democrats have proposed. And it's not just in the area of dementia, it's in the whole area of the elderly. The Social Democrats' Minister for Health and the Elderly has said in the past that he will put welfare first. But it sounds hollow when the Minister for Health and the elderly keeps putting the elderly and the weakest elderly in the back of the car. Let me give you a few examples. In the case of the Social Democrats' financial law, there was not a single priority in the area of the elderly and not a single legislative proposal in the legal catalogue in the area of the elderly. Despite the fact that Social Democrat Astrid Krag used a lot of effort to mock former Elder Minister Thyra Frank for precisely not having legislative proposals included in the law catalogue. Now the parties to the agreement have negotiated a small initiative into the finance law in the area of the elderly. kr., which the 98 municipalities can apply for. Yes, of course it's also a little funny, considering that Mette Frederiksen, before the election, wanted to have a fight with the pools... but that was of course before the election. Now the pipe has got another sound, and now we need pools, and the welfare is only for selected groups. On the left side, we would have liked the government to have addressed some of the major challenges in the area of the elderly. Let me give you an example. About 30,000 elderly people feel lonely, and about 8,000 are waiting for a senior residence. We know that too many older people commit suicide and they are frighteningly effective once they have decided to leave this world, unfortunately. These many elderly people must now look far after the welfare promise that the government put in store for the Danes before the elections sad, but true. I would like to read out my proposal for adoption on behalf of the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Conservative People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the New Citizens' Party. Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament is concerned about the government's lack of prioritising of the elderly area. Parliament notes that it has succeeded in challenging the government's failure to prioritize the area of the elderly. Following negotiations on the dementia action plan between the Government and the other parties of the Folketing, the reserve, which arose as a result of the abolition of the rate pool, has now been raised to 244,4 million. kr. for the period from 2020 to 2023. This means that the dementia action plan can continue. Parliament also notes that this is an area which should have long-term financing. It is estimated that nearly 90,000 citizens over 60 years of age are affected by dementia. The number is probably much higher because many are not being determined. It is therefore crucial that dementia is detected early and undone. Parliament notes that there is now much better prospects for holistic action for dementes and their relatives. Parliament notes that the government has not put forward initiatives in the area of the elderly. The law catalogue is empty and the finance law is meagre in the area of the elderly. The Folketing expresses concern about the future of older people's efforts, care and care. • V 40). Thank you for the floor. I look forward to a fruitful debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217174854	Thank you. There are a few brief comments and the first is to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217174859	Thank you for that and also thank you for calling the question debate. I agree that dementia is a very important area and is also important to prioritise. Nevertheless, there has been a backdrop in the pool negotiations, which stated that the rate pool had been cancelled in principle. I am just wondering whether the rapporteur will reveal how the rapporteur's own party had imagined that the tasks which have actually been financed by the rate pool 'dementia', 'psychiatry' and all sorts of other things would be carried out once the rate pool has been de facto abolished.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217174943	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217174944	Well, the bet pool has also been financial law. The bet pool is also financial law.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217174954	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217174955	Now the rapporteur himself referred to these social policy debates. That is what they are called today? They're not even called bet pool negotiations. What we called wage pool negotiations in the old days is what the rapporteur says and refers to when she talks about a dementia action plan that was not a priority. It is quite true that it could be the Finance Act in the future, after all, some other parties are taking care of it. How does the rapporteur envisage giving priority to specific cross-party interventions in the future when the rate pool has actually been abolished?
ParlaMint-DK_20191217175028	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217175029	I think we should be very aware that the rate pool has been very scolded for many years; there has been a great deal of criticism that not the whole psychiatry, but part of the psychiatry has been pool-financed. I've heard Mette Frederiksen say before that we're gonna have a fight with the pool tyranny. So there has been a broad desire for a showdown, and any government is free to give priority to the Finance Act. After all, we did it ourselves diligently, since earlier in the VLAK government we had government responsibility together with the Danish People's Party. We made our priorities, among other things. pots for nursing home kitchens and other things, also in the area of the elderly, and that possibility exists today.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217175115	Thank you. And then, sir... Peder Hvelplund asked for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217175119	Thank you. And thank you for calling the question so that we can discuss both the area of the elderly and the area of the dementia. That is extremely important. I just had a little doubt as to what the Left's position really is. For, on the one hand, the Left attacks the government and the Finance Act that there are no earmarked funds for the elderly, and, on the other hand, the rapporteur says that we must put an end to the pool tyranny, that is to say that we must apply for funds. And in my optics it is the case that if you earmark funds for the municipalities, it happens, by that there are pools, and that the municipalities like to have to document what it is you are using the funds for. That is why I have some doubts as to where it really is that the Left wants us to have more pools, or whether the Left thinks we should do what the government and the support parties to the Finance Act have done, namely to ensure that the municipalities are covered by the demographic features and that, in addition, a boost can be given to the municipalities so that they can actually bear the costs they are also interested in bearing. Is the Left of the opinion that we should have more pools or that we should have fewer pools?
ParlaMint-DK_20191217175229	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217175230	When I mentioned the pool tyranny, I referred to statements made by the Prime Minister, who said so, and I also said in my speech here that she wanted a fight with the pool tyranny. And that is why I am surprised that the government, as the only one in the Finance Act, has set aside a pool of 125 million. kr., which all 98 municipalities can apply for, if I understand the financial priority right. I'm just wondering. I thought the PM meant what she said before the election. We must then note here after the elections that this was not meant to be the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217175305	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217175307	This is because, in his rapporteur's speech, the rapporteur both attacked the government for not earmarking funds and for selling pools. And that is why I just need to know what the position of the Left really is. Is it that you want earmarked funds and thus pools, or are you opposed to it?
ParlaMint-DK_20191217175324	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217175326	We have, of course, done both, since we previously had government responsibility, supported by the Danish People's Party. A very good example of earmarked funds is because we set aside 200 million in the economic agreement with the regions. kr. targeted psychiatry, because really think there is a need for a boost of psychiatry. And we also have on previous finance laws, when we had government responsibility, together with the Danish People's Party targeted earmarked funds that could be sought, among other things. for cutting cards, so that the elderly had more self-determination, for nursing home kitchens, so that they could smell freshly prepared food in the nursing homes. So we have certainly done both.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217175411	The next person who has asked for a brief comment is Mrs Birgitte Vind.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217175416	Thank you. It was actually because Mrs Kirsten Normann asked the rapporteur a question which I do not think we were given an answer to: how the Left would actually finance better dementia care itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217175430	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217175432	After all, the funds are due to expire at the turn of the year, and we had not discussed the final financing. After all, we had elections this summer, but the Finance Act is a very good offer when it comes to prioritising interventions, such as what do you say? And we had promised each other a dementia action plan to run until 2025. That's what we agreed on in the pool circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217175509	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217175512	That's interesting. For now I could understand that the Minister could make a figure showing that the Left has actually saved 0.5 billion. kr. Just in a year on the whole public sector, that is, on welfare. So there is a lot to be done in addition to pools, I think, if you are going to raise not only the elderly area, but also the dementia effort. kr. for a fig leaf. It was a very, very large fig leaf. I would just like to know what the rapporteur would like to compare the corresponding local government agreements of the Left with.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217175558	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217175559	It has to be said that what we are left with here, and what is why we have called for this debate, is that the Red Government has not given priority to the area of democracy, with the financial bill being proposed. There was no priority for the elderly and 3 out of 23 initiatives had been prioritised in the dementia action plan. This should give rise to deep, deep frowns. That's why we're here today. That is because the red government and the support parties do not give priority to the elderly, do not put welfare first, as you go and boast about when you knock out your arms. You don't do that. What you have done is you have put a pool of 125 million. kr., from which 98 municipalities can apply.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217175643	Thank you. Then it's mr. Nils Sjøberg for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217175646	Thank you and thank you for raising this issue. I would very much like to point out that we agree that more money needs to be given to both psychiatry and to the elderly and, as such, also to dementia. That is what we have been working for, and the 244 million have succeeded. kr, and that's a boost, I'll say. I would like to ask you a few questions. The previous government had made a plan for the future of health care, and to what extent had the previous government made calculations about dementia in this context?
ParlaMint-DK_20191217175721	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217175723	Well, we had, of course, seen a dementia action plan which runs until 2025, and I am really, really glad that funds have now been set aside. It is quite true that we had also put forward a proposal for a health reform, but we are missing it now, because the new government we have nothing like nothing, but one of the initiatives which would, of course, be of the utmost benefit to the elderly and the demented if we had been given power, as we had observed, was, among other things, one of those. training more doctors for general practice so that doctors move closer. We could stem the medical shortage, and it would also be state-of-the-art health houses spread throughout Denmark, where more professions such as physiotherapists, ergotherapists, special nurses would have the opportunity to work. So a large number of initiatives, concrete initiatives, which would also boost efforts and facilitate the everyday lives of particularly vulnerable people such as elderly people.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217175819	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217175821	I can tell you that I am very pleased that we agree on that point of view. But it is precisely in the future Health Service that it appears only twice, namely in the training of social assistants and further training in the field of psychiatry and dementia; it is the only two places that have been mentioned. Nor is it mentioned in the plan made for nursing homes by the previous government. I think it is rather hollow when the previous government is saying that it places particular emphasis on dementia. I think it is necessary for all of us here in the Folketing to agree to jointly raise this very big problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217175853	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217175855	I think it is really important that the rapporteur may just spoil the time back to 2015, when we took over the government power, and in this way it was a Left initiative to lift the dementia effort. If you ask out there in the Alzheimer's Association and elsewhere, I do not think there is the slightest doubt as to where the initiative came from to strengthen the dementia effort. We have, of course, kept this up by being stubborn about the fact that we should have raised the level so that we can achieve the Dementia Action Plan and also have the initiative to plan ahead of other areas where we could strengthen dementia efforts.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217175938	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. We move forward in the rapporteur's line and the next one is the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mrs Birgitte Vind.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217175952	Thank you for the floor. And thank you for raising the issue of dementia, which is a very, very important issue. We Danes live longer, and it is actually very happy, but with age the chance of getting dementia is also increased. It is estimated that 82,000 elderly people aged 65+ have dementia in Denmark and approx. 3,000 people under the age of 65 who have it. And every year about 8,000 new cases of dementia are recorded in the national registers. And the National Knowledge Centre for Dementia therefore estimates that we are between 300,000 and 400,000 Danes who are actually relatives of a human being with dementia. And when the Danish Parliament adopted the National Dementia Action Plan in 2016, it was a largely unanimous Parliament that chose to allocate 442 million. kr. for 23 different initiatives in the period 2016-2025, and so did we here in 2019, where all parties chose to prioritize 244 million, with the exception of a single one. kr. up to 2023. We are responsible here in the Folketing for allowing municipalities and regions, together with civil society, to meet the need to be a dementia-friendly society. And that is why it is also crucial that with the new government and the support parties we have now entered a new era in Danish welfare policy. With the municipal and regional agreements, we ensure a hand under welfare. Now the Left calls it a fig leaf, but it's kr. By 2020, the municipalities can provide an economy that in one year produces more than the last four years combined. That's a really good boost. While ensuring the economy, we are faced with a new era where we no longer tell the staff that they just have to run faster and be more effective. We are also at the point where people are told that dementia does not belong in efficiency plans and new public management theories. Dementia requires knowledge, it takes time, and it requires presence. So how can we improve workflows in everyday life so that documentation does not steal time from presence? Last week, on my trip around the country, I visited the Lindegården Care Centre, a dementia nursing home in Vejle with very high professional skills. Fitting-out and prevention in everyday life mean a lot, but it is crucial that staff have a physical opportunity, for example. to be around Signe at 72 years of age... let's call her Signe who reacts by throwing things if she can't figure out the situation around the dinner meal, or by beating people around her if she can't figure out the bathing situation. In these cases only caring and relation work counts; the presence of a fellow human being who can cope with insecurity and provide security for her. All this cannot be put on formulas in schedules. And after nine years in municipal politics and as a family of a father of dementia, and now also after a few months as rapporteur for the elderly, I know that the well-being and working conditions of employees are crucial for this effort. And just as when we in the plane are instructed to put on the oxygen mask ourselves before we help others, so in our elderly care and dementia efforts we have to give the staff the opportunity to breathe so that they can help others. And that is one of the reasons why a task force is also being set up now to look at how we can debureaucratise. That's why we're stopping the erosion of nuclear welfare. The municipal and regional agreements, as well as the Finance Act, are essential for us to start a new era; a time when we can keep our hands on the welfare economy, and we ensure that money comes with each time we become more children and older. Dementia is a life condition for many people and for more of us in the future. That is why the new agreement, which has fortunately been concluded by virtually all parties, has also decided to allocate more money to the demersal sector. We can, among other things. continue the existing counselling and activity centres and we can work with the more specialised and multidisciplinary research and treatment options. And not least, we need to look at the medication, which has been a major problem. We need less antipsychotic medication. We are all aware of the measures, but neither the Dementia Action Plan, the Finance Act, the Reserve Pool Agreement nor the Municipal and Regional Agreements have fully achieved their goal. We are on our way and have taken the first steps. None of us knows which of us is affected by dementia or a disease for that matter, but we are all responsible for creating the best framework for our future. And I expect the rest of the Danish Parliament to work together on the future of dementia, which is why I also hope that it is a unanimous Parliament which will vote in favour of this proposal for adoption. Therefore, on behalf of S, RV, SF, EL and ALT, I shall present the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament considers it essential that people with dementia can live a safe and dignified life. There is a desire for transparent and professional action in the area of dementia. It is Parliament's ambition that Denmark has an ambitious and targeted effort in the area of dementia, including a stronger focus on preventive work. The Dementia Action Plan with its 470 million. kr. 23 initiatives have made a positive difference. That is why the contracting circle behind the implementation of the reserve has chosen to allocate a further 244 million. kr. to follow up the dementia action plan with 12 concrete initiatives. Municipalities and regions must have as good a framework as possible to deal with people with dementia and relatives. The agreement on the municipalities' economy for 2020 raises the municipalities' economy by 1.7 billion. kr. compared to 2019, which follows demography and is a step on the way to ensuring a real welfare promise. National Knowledge Centre for Dementia is also permanentized. Dementia is high on the political agenda. • V 41).
ParlaMint-DK_20191217180554	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first is from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217180558	Thanks for the speech. We in the Danish People's Party would very much like to help the government set off further to the elderly area and put more emphasis on it. Because when you read the understanding paper of the government and the support parties, the only thing that says there is something about debureaucratisation. That is the only thing that says about the area of elderly people, namely that they want to debureaucratise. This is so, despite the fact that there is a final report from 2018 which focuses on it. That is why I am surprised that the government has not had any initiatives in relation to it. The understanding paper is empty, and the law catalogue is also empty. In relation to the dementia action plan, the priority had not been to set aside enough funds, and that really was something we had to fight for, namely to have additional funds set aside, despite the fact that funds will be taken from the elderly area at the same time.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217180656	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217180704	I didn't hear the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217180705	My question is to the rapporteur: the rapporteur says that 1.7 billion has been set aside. kr. extra for extra welfare; how much goes to the elderly area? How can we be sure that there are funds going to the elderly area? The second question I would like to ask the rapporteur is whether there are two questions, so listen carefully to what it is about where the rapporteur thinks we should debureaucratize? What is not to be documented in the care of the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20191217180730	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217180731	I can then repeat what the Minister said so well just now. When it comes to where we can see it, the municipalities have so much asked for more money to increase general welfare and to keep their hands under the bottom of welfare, because the money has been poured out of the municipal funds over the past many years in relation to taking care of, among other things. The dena region. It goes without saying that the municipalities will give priority to this route around. We do not go into the municipalities and tell them what they need the money for. As I said last week when the rapporteur asked almost the same question, it has to be said that it is up to the municipalities to assess where they are best going. Is this a new care center? Is this a dementia center? Where is it that they want to take concrete action in the individual municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20191217180814	Yes, please. The next brief remark is Mrs Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217180817	Thank you. I have two ultra-short questions: why should we give priority to only three initiatives in the dementia action plan? And why is there no legislation on the elderly in the legislative catalogue?
ParlaMint-DK_20191217180830	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217180831	Of course, I cannot speak for the government, but I can say that the three initiatives are three very central initiatives, which the Minister also mentioned, and which, of course, unfold very well. There are, of course, three objectives, but there are 12 initiatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217180847	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217180848	I recognise that there is no response on behalf of the government. I just had such an idea that there was probably some dialogue in the Social Democratic Party, but that certainly is not the case with the law catalogue. So I can put the question to the Minister on occasion. So let me ask with regard to the initiatives in the dementia action plan: do the Socialists really believe that we are in line with the competence-raising of staff? Do the Socialists really believe that we are in the goal of reducing the amount of antipsychotic medicines just to mention two examples?
ParlaMint-DK_20191217180924	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217180924-2	That is precisely why we have taken action in these areas. So no, we are definitely not in the end, and that is what I concluded by saying. This is a step on the way. There is a lot of work to be done in the municipalities, in the regions and in cooperation with us.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217180943	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next rapporteur is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217180955	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister, who acknowledges that the Danish People's Party has made some impressions in the agreement that we have negotiated. It would have looked a little different if you had listened a little more to the Danish People's Party in the debates I do not know whether the Minister is listening or whether the Minister is busy talking; sometimes it is very frustrating when you are standing and giving a speech and the Minister is not listening. After all, it was an important step that we had a national dementia action plan put in place at the time. That is also why it was deeply worrying that the government would not allocate enough funds to continue the national dementia action plan. Denmark must be a dementia-friendly society so that people with dementia and not least their relatives can live a dignified life. Dementia affects not only the individual, but the whole family. Dementia also brings great anxiety. It is estimated that 15,000 people are affected by dementia every year and that the number is expected to increase in the coming years because there are more elderly people. Dementia is a disease that turns life upside down, both for the demented and not least for the relatives. There are also approx. 3,000 people under the age of 65 who have been diagnosed with dementia, but the validity of the diagnosis in this age group is uncertain. In the younger age groups there are more men than women with dementia. In order to make Denmark a more dementia-friendly society, where people with dementia and their relatives can live a safe and dignified life, we reached a political agreement on 15 December 2016, when the parties agreed on the execution of 470 million. kr., which the parties then deposed in 2015 to a national dementia action plan. The action plan sets three national targets for dementia action up to 2025, supported by a wide range of concrete initiatives spread over five focus areas. The three objectives that we have also mentioned today in relation to Denmark having 98 dementia-friendly municipalities are that more people with dementia have to be solved, 80%. should have a specific diagnosis, and improved care and treatment efforts should reduce the consumption of antipsychotic medicines among people with dementia by 50%. Toward the year 2025. It was a huge battle to ensure that the dementia action plan could continue, and I would also like to say that, in relation to antipsychotic medicine, we have just today received a reply from the Minister and it does not look so good in that area. So this is certainly an area on which we must focus our attention, even if we have highlighted it in our agreement. There are also major regional differences in this area. When we talk relatives, in November together 30 organisations launched five principles for municipal, regional and state initiatives to ensure better conditions for relatives in Denmark, and I look down on Radicale's rapporteur, Nils, who was also there that day. I participated in the launch and they wrote among other things. in the press release: When a person is affected by serious or chronic illness or is challenged by a disability, the close relatives often become indispensable fellow players and supporters. At the same time, a pressure on the social and health sector is increasingly expecting the relatives to undertake important tasks in relation to both the course of treatment, care and everyday life. Demanding tasks that work on the long track and that can make it difficult for the next of kin to do their job at the same time and take care of themselves. So there are 30 organisations that are deeply concerned about the many relatives who work hard every day for the endings to meet, and so the problems are not limited to a diagnosis or a disability. This applies to all relatives who carry out an extremely demanding task every day, and we must also recognise and support this as a society, so that the relatives are not overloaded in trying to help their relatives. I look forward to getting much more focus on this area, but not least that we are also following up on the initiatives that have been adopted, because it is sometimes the case that when we adopt something in here from Christiansborg, it is not always the implementation that comes with it. That is why we have a task, and the Minister has a task in particular, in that what we are adopting is also what is going to happen out in reality, as they say when you stand on the platform, and that is a duty. I would like to thank you for the word 'time', 'time' and I look forward to a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217181448	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments. Was there just one? It was just on the fall. Sir. Nils Sjøberg, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217181503	I would like to thank the rapporteur for raising this debate. It's really important. I thought it was nice that the rapporteur and I took part in that family arrangement. There is no doubt that when 30 organisations come together to deal with relatives and place particular emphasis on it, it is because being relatives of a sick person, and especially of a dement, requires a great deal. I would like to ask the rapporteur how standards will be guaranteed in nursing homes and whether there is any possibility that this will help demente at all. What is the rapporteur's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20191217181540	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217181542	It is certain that the standards must be in place. Of course. Unfortunately, I am not in such a position that I can make it happen, because I have not been sitting at the table in the budget negotiations. However, I can at least say that where I have been sitting at the table in relation to the reserve, I have fought for the elderly area, including that funds should not be taken from the elderly area. They're talking about the municipalities and how they're good at prioritising these funds. We can then discuss that, but we have heard that today, in other words about municipal autonomy. The municipalities certainly have an obligation to ensure that there are enough staff in the nursing homes and not least in home care. They must ensure a dignified care. Not least, as a leader, there is an obligation to ensure that there is a proper working environment for those working in the care sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217181639	Sir. Nils Sjøberg for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217181640	I'm glad. There are not many areas where the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left can agree on quite a lot, but precisely in this area I would like to sign for our agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217181652	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217181653	Well, thank you. It's good if you can agree on a few things once in a while.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217181700	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and the next rapporteur is the Radical Left rapporteur, Mr. Nils Sjøberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217181719	Thank you. Almost 90,000 Danes have dementia. 400,000 Danes are related persons to persons who have dementia • a mother, a father or a spouse. At the same time, the number of demented will increase by 50-60 per cent. in the coming years, so the figures speak their clear language. In other words, we face a very great challenge in the area of dementia. Yet, we seem to have difficulty facing the disease. This is clear from the Danish Health Authority's report on the health and well-being of elderly people from February of this year. The report from the National Health Service does not mention dementia with a single word. That dementia is a reality, that dementia is part of everyday life, is in turn clear to the married couple who have lived together for 50 years when the husband or wife gets dementia. Day by day one loses one's mate mentally. Day by day you experience as a diseaser that you can less and less, and today every fifth of dementia dies in Denmark. I would like to acknowledge that I also fear to have dementia or to lose one of my loved ones to dementia. It is therefore not without reason that the WHO refers to dementia as the fourth largest cause of deterioration in the quality of life due to illness ■ it is for people over 70 years of age. 8 out of 10 nursing homes suffer from dementia and every day between 30,000 and 35,000 dementia patients are treated for their illness in Danish nursing homes. Just as dementia is not mentioned in the report on the health and well-being of the elderly, dementia is in fact only two times included in the previous government's agreement on reforms for the future of health care. In both places it is in relation to education, and it is, in fact, a good thing that education is being given priority. For me, it is crucial that dementia is included in a new health reform to a much greater extent. We Radicals have fought to get money for dementia on the budget, and we have succeeded, but that is far from good enough. Waiting times for dementia to go down, we need better treatment for dementia patients in nursing homes, and increased research into dementia is needed. With the necessary investments, the national dementia action plan 2025 will produce some fantastic results. Dementia's action plan 2025 also looks at prevention and diagnosis, physical activity, maintaining activities and social activities. It is absolutely essential to focus on prevention. Therefore, I look forward to the Danish Health Authority making its recommendations on the cross-sectoral processes for treating people with dementia. We have been waiting for the recommendations for a year now. It's hard to understand, because action is needed now. There is a need for research and recognition that dementia is a people's disease that we must invest in combating. Let us work together to face one of the greatest challenges of our time across the parties, across the blocs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217182043	Thank you, and then there is a brief comment to Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217182047	Thank you. Now the rapporteur said that the rapporteur agreed with the Danish People's Party in relation to this area. And that's really, really good. But now it is the case that the Danish People's Party has never entered a negotiating room for the Finance Act or the reserve without having the elderly area with the dignity billionaire, pools, better kitchens, cozy nursing homes or anything else. So I would like to hear: what have the Radicals brought with them in the area of the elderly for the financial law negotiations in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20191217182126	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217182130	I fully agree with the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party that it is a little annoying when speaking in the Chamber. At the same time, however, I must point out that we were just going to financial law negotiations with the government, at a time when the government had not set aside money for psychiatry, the government had not set aside money for the elderly in any areas that the government had not set aside money for dementia. There were many areas that had to be lifted, and there is no doubt that as the Minister for Health and the Elderly has also pointed out that some hard blows were fought, and much was done to lift it here. And what has been lifted is far from good enough. But what has been promised, there is no doubt that the Danish People's Party and the opposition have helped push, and I would like to say in all modesty that the Radical Left has done so to a great extent.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217182219	I would just like to support the fact that when there are rapporteurs up here who feel disturbed by the talk, we should listen to it. And we're sitting quite close here, so it's heard very clearly up here on the platform. Mrs Karina Adsbøl for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217182235	Thank you. Thank you for your answer. But I just didn't know what the answer really was. So what exactly was it that the Radicals were bringing to the negotiating table concerning the area of the elderly, which was concerned with the demersal sector? What initiatives were taken? Did they want more funds to be set aside? Was there a desire for antipsychotic medicines to be reduced or where are we?
ParlaMint-DK_20191217182310	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217182311	Mrs Karina Adsbøl mentions a couple of things herself. But a few of the topics we include. The emphasis was on different new types of housing, i.e. how to establish housing, so that people can stay safely in their accommodations, too, if they get into a situation where one of the spouses becomes demented and then you can help in another way. What we have emphasized is a whole context in which to create a better life for people, not only in a certain area, but also in a number of areas, and to a large extent for the elderly in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217182340	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Radicals. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen from the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217182350	Thank you. And first of all, thank you to the parties for calling this inquiry debate. Dementia is just the diagnosis that no one wants, because while for other progressive diseases there are some treatments that can help delay the disease, it is really limited what we can offer of treatment to the patient who unfortunately has been diagnosed with dementia. That is why research in this particular area is also one of the most important preventive measures that we can deal with. Because the only thing that people with dementia really want is a cure. Nevertheless, I myself have been involved in drawing up the target of 90%. of patients who actually have dementia must also be cared for. For even though the prognosis is ruthless, an early diagnosis may mean the possibility of delaying development and, not least, an early diagnosis may give the patient a greater influence on the care and care that the patient will later need. When the citizen gets dementia, it is also at the heart of the matter that it is important to try to hold on to man. Because when the disease strikes, the concrete interventions are targeted at the individual patient, the only thing that can really make a difference, and the aid must be initiated immediately. I myself have had the opportunity on several occasions of dialogue with patients who have been diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease and who can still actively formulate specific needs. It gave inspiration to a wage-pool agreement which, on an experimental basis, should provide citizens with dementia with the opportunity to use disability transport, where you are picked up at the home address and brought to your destination a small improvement which can make the important difference that the patient can continue an active life a little longer. The patient who has a serious illness will often take care of practical matters, but it is not always obvious what needs to be done and how. For the patient with dementia, it may seem incalculable, and it is often not easier for the next of kin. What kind of help should you ask for? When does it make sense to decide on one thing or the other? Everything from life testaments to help with pension conditions and application for financial support, proxies, applications for nursing homes and much more. The early effort may be the small straw, which causes more patients to be settled in time, because it gives them the necessary help to cope with the future. We have already proposed such measures in the SF. Unfortunately, there was little support, even in the previous session. In the SF we support the dementia action plan, but we would have liked to have seen more direct interventions; it should not be a secret. Patients with dementia have as different needs as all other patients, but at some point it becomes difficult to formulate needs, and this can be extremely frustrating. It is really not difficult to understand how it feels if you can no longer express needs like hunger and thirst and pain, need to go to the toilet, want to go out into the fresh air. But it takes time, lots of time, if you as an employee have to decode the demented's wishes and needs. The closer cooperation the patient has had in time with the care staff, the greater the chances that the care can be organized in accordance with the wishes of the patient. In SF we are preoccupied with the right help in time. Resources and competences are therefore the most important efforts if we are to prevent excessive consumption of antipsychotic medicines, ensure patients with dementia the necessary pain treatment and not at least ensure a dignified life on their own terms. That is why it was also important for us to ensure that the municipalities had budgets that could keep up with demographic developments. Unfortunately, with more and more elderly people, we will also find that more people have dementia. Action plans do not in themselves do so. They are and remain only words. In the SF, we will also work hard in the future to ensure that care for the elderly is provided with the necessary resources for the direct and necessary support, care and care. In the SF, moreover, we support the proposal for adoption which was read out by the Socialist rapporteur. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217182822	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217182825	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. On 1 March last year, Mrs Kirsten Normann presented a motion for a resolution, B 116, which instructed the previous government, and now I quote, to draw up a legislative proposal to ensure that municipalities are compensated financially in relation to the growth in the number of elderly people per year. the municipality, provided that the municipalities actually increase their expenditure in the area of the elderly. I assume that this is still SF's policy, i.e. that you in the municipalities should only have money if you increase spending on the elderly area. So I just want to ask the SF when this motion for a resolution is being retabled.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217182906	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217182908	I think we will, because the proposal has a slightly larger dimension than what the rapporteur is just reading, namely that we would also very much like to continue working to ensure that we can work more with permanent staff. In other words, relationships mean something in the care of the elderly, and it makes great sense if you also have the opportunity to organise the work in a way where it is the same staff who come over and over again. This is particularly true when working with citizens with dementia; in fact, it is the whole prerequisite for providing a very good and worthy care for the elderly. So the proposal is not forgotten, it is saved to the time when we are ready to table it again.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217182953	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217182954	It was a rather woolly answer ( Kirsten Normann Andersen Næ, that was very clear), especially in view of the fact that we are several parties who have asked the government over and over again without getting answers, how much is specifically allocated to the elderly area in the municipal agreement that has been made. Therefore, it is super exciting that it is SF's policy that you should only have money through the municipality agreement if you at the same time allocate money to the elderly area. So allow me just to ask again, because I understand that it is still the SF's policy: when is this resolution being tabled again?
ParlaMint-DK_20191217183020	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217183048	I think the most important thing right now is to stick to the fact that money has finally been set aside so that we can keep up with demographic developments well and well; that is more than has been the case over the last four years. This is and will be a prerequisite for the proper care of the elderly at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217183053	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217183054	Thank you for that, President. Thank you, too, to the parties behind the question for raising the question here today, because this is, of course, about priorities in the area of dementia and the continuation of the existing dementia action plan, and it is of course a very important issue to debate. Dementia is unfortunately a common and very serious disease. It is a disease that affects widely in all walks of life; it is a disease that requires treatment, but it is also a disease that affects a whole person and a whole family and has an impact on soon all the conditions of life. It is estimated that there are up to 90,000 people with dementia, and that is probably even low set, for it is set, in relation to who has been diagnosed with the disease. And it is not only older citizens who are affected. There are also more with dementia among younger people. They and their relatives need conditions to be improved. That is why I am also pleased that this year we have ensured an increase in the economy of the municipalities in relation to what the previous government has delivered, but I would also like to say that this is not enough to correct the shortfall in the municipalities. We are still going to see municipalities which are pursuing austerity policies, municipalities which cut aid to the elderly, and that is not possible, of course, when we know that the need is also increasing in the future. In the Enhedslisten we continue to work to ensure better welfare for the many, and therefore we must remove the economic straitjacket that changing governments have forced down on municipal welfare. It is also worrying that there are still straitjackets that leave municipalities unable to invest in their citizens. There are more elderly people and people with dementia, and therefore more elderly and nursing homes need to be built and more staff employed in nursing homes, so that no elderly person should wait unnecessarily for help. As it is today, skilled employees go to work every day and make a formidable effort, but in many places it is not enough because the employees lack colleagues. That is why we have also experienced examples of elderly demented people who have been strapped with fabric belts that are left to themselves, and elderly demented people who are given antipsychotic medicines, even if that is not what they need. Some are waiting hours for help because the employees are busy helping others. Of course, that is not fair either for the demented, for their relatives or for the employees. The agreement with the government on the understanding paper states that when more older people arrive, the funds must follow. It is now time to invest, because in the years to come there will be more elderly people, including the elderly with dementia. It is therefore necessary that the municipalities have had the opportunity to build nursing homes and to train the many people who will be needed to ensure a safe old age. That is why I am also pleased that together we agreed on a boost to the efforts of the demented through the dementia action plan. The government did not provide sufficient funds, but managed to save efforts to reduce the use of antipsychotic medicines and to ensure better conditions for investigation and meaningful life through the activity centres. It was a key priority for the Enhedslisten in the negotiations on the social reserve, and I am pleased that it succeeded in getting through with it. It annoys me, of course, that the previous government just decided to close down the rate pool without a plan for how it should happen and how the many projects should be saved and continued. However, after a great deal of effort, most initiatives in the field of dementia have now been secured. However, the many demented citizens of the future cannot be content with an action plan and an increase in the economy of the municipalities. If we are to ensure that the demented, from which we ourselves would also like to benefit, if we need them, then investment must now be made. That is why, in the spring, we must also remove the rules that prevent municipalities from providing proper action for the elderly, for people with dementia and others who depend on municipal care. That is why we will also make an effort to abolish the budgetary ceiling. However, we can support the proposal for adoption which the Socialist rapporteur read out earlier.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217183502	Thank you. Mrs Adsbøl has asked for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217183506	Thank you. I almost got the answer here on the slippery slope, where Enhedslisten's rapporteur said that the municipalities were tense up. I think it was the government before the previous government, under Helle Thorning-Schmidt, who led the budget law with Bjarne Corydon. After all, it was a government supported by the Enhedslisten. Indeed, I would have asked about the budget law and whether the Enhedslisten would then table a motion for a resolution on the budget law. Or has the Enhedslisten brought it into these financial law negotiations that you have to look at the budget law? President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:
ParlaMint-DK_20191217183551	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217183552	I'd like that. The Enhedslisten does not support the budget law, and we will also vote in favour of increasing the ceiling in relation to the budget law when we vote on the budget law in the coming days. That is in relation to the budget law that has been adopted. However, we will not be voting in favour of the continuation of the budget law and the economic ceilings that lie there. It is, of course, the case that it is a major obstacle to our being able to invest in welfare, that there should be a ceiling on the expenditure that must be incurred in the public sector of the economy. That is why, of course, we will continue to fight against the budget law and the resulting economic ceilings.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217183635	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217183637	I do not know whether I should understand the fact that there will be an amendment from the Enhedslisten to the Finance Act. It will have to be debated tomorrow, and then there will be a number of amendments, but it may be that the rapporteur will reply yes or no to it. The last question I have to ask the rapporteur is about these financial law negotiations: what exactly did Enhedslisten bring to the table? We have heard quite a lot about minimum standards and children. There is no one outside the House who has spoken out to the elderly in these financial legislation negotiations. So what did Enhedslisten bring to the table in the finance negotiations? And it is not in the negotiations on the reserve that I sat with myself.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217183718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217183721	First of all, on the budget law: as I said earlier, we will of course vote in favour of increasing the ceiling of the budget law that has been adopted. However, we will not be voting for the continuation of the economic ceilings in the Budget Act. In relation to the Finance Act, we see finance law, economic agreements and negotiations on the social reserve under one. Therefore, it has been absolutely crucial for us this time to ensure that we do not continue the erosion of the municipal economy, thus ensuring that the demographic feature is at least covered. Then we must begin to develop welfare. It will also concern the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217183804	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the Enhedslisten rapporteur. We move forward in the rapporteur's line, and the next rapporteur is Mr Cryer. Marcus Knuth of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217183814	Thank you, President. Dementia is a terrible disease that can affect all of us. I am glad that all the rapporteurs here today have made it quite clear. The question has then been about the financing of the measures that we can take, because this area must, of course, be given the greatest attention. Therefore, we were very pleased with the agreement we got in place with the former VLAK government, which, together with the Social Democracy, the Danish People's Party, the Alternative, the Radical Left and the SF, got the focus on the agreement, which was then called the National Dementia Action Plan 2025. The funding then expired in 2019 and therefore our great concern has been the continued funding. This is where the government has come to meet us and has set aside 244 million. kr. We now hope that the Social Democrats will continue to focus on the area and, together with us, ensure that the dementia sufferers have a dignified life. The most important thing for us is that we have now found a solution and that we are not going to fight for funding again in the future. As several have said here today, there are still challenges with diagnoses; there are still challenges with patients who are on a very, very heavy medication. We are pleased that a solution has been found and we support the proposal for adoption which has been read out by the rapporteur of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217183940	Thank you. There are no brief comments to the rapporteur of the Conservatives, so we go further. The next is Mrs. Susanne Zimmer from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217183952	Thank you. From the National Knowledge Centre for Dementia we can see the figures, which have also been mentioned before, namely that 36,000 people over 65 years of age have been affected by dementia, as we know, but probably it is really 82,000. The figure is increasing, and also under the age of 65, many people are affected by dementia. There are probably 400,000 people living with a person affected by dementia and people dying from dementia. In the alternative, we welcome the payment of the reserve of 244 million. kr. to follow up the dementia action plan with the 12 specific initiatives, of which I would just like to mention a few, which I think is good. It is a fixed link between doctors and nursing homes, homeliness in nursing homes and the goal of reducing antipsychotic medicines where there is a development project. We know that some of the 23 initiatives launched in the action plan have had a good impact, among others. The toolbox, which was divided here in January in Copenhagen, Aarhus and Aalborg, where the staff could come in and hear about the tools that were in it. There are many things that need money, but there are also things that you can do better by getting inspiration from outside and knowledge sharing with each other. It can, for example, be done. be interview groups, help cards, books with advice for both staff but also for families. And some of what I also think we should focus more on is knowledge sharing in general, but also in relation to abroad, for example. Holland, which has dementia villages. We can use that in whole or in part. Then, of course, there is a general need for training, and it is good that there are pools that the municipalities can apply for. It is clear that strong development work is still needed here, because it is a very distressing disease to be affected, and it is also a very distressing disease that one's relatives are affected by. We support the proposal for adoption which was read out by the Socialist rapporteur, Birgitte Vind.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217184221	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. The next rapporteur, I see in the Chamber, is the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, Mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217184234	Thank you for the floor and thank you very much for a good debate. It reminds us a little of last week's debate in the area of the elderly, except fortunately the Minister's voice is clearly improving. With the exception of Mr. Marcus Knuth is the same person as last Friday. That's why I'm actually gonna read from an e-mail that I got from a citizen here on Monday. It was addressed to me, but it concerns exactly the group of people who were here on Friday to discuss the area of elderly people. I don't want to read the entire e-mail, but in excerpts it sounds like this: Hello Henrik. I want you to know that there are people out here who understand a lot more than the people you need to work with at Castle. Your pictures with the money tree and the bureaucratic restaurant will be understood by most primary school classes, but apparently not by the rapporteurs. Then there will be some different passages with suggestions for educational improvements. They may not be so politely worded, but it ends with: We have certainly enjoyed ourselves princely, and a good laugh is the best safeguard against being imbued with fear of the future. So we are all doing a good job together here in the Folketing. I just wanted to share this e-mail with all of you rapporteurs in this area. Then I will conclude the debate by saying that there is something terrible about diseases that change the personality. I've done a lot of things before I joined the Folketing. In my previous life, I have been involved in investigating what is happening in families where there is a member who is suffering from schizophrenia. This is one of the studies that has made the most of me. There was a woman who said she didn't live with her husband anymore, because he didn't exist. But she hadn't remarried, for he wasn't dead either. It is such a terrible dilemma to come in: The person exists physically, but is somewhere else and is another human being. It's scary, and of course you have to do something about it. So we need to focus on dementia, and the money needs to keep up. There is one thing we have not mentioned so much and I should like to make a few comments on, now that I have the attention of the House. This applies to the criticism of bureaucracy. Today's debate is, of course, one way or another about having a little difficulty remembering things, and it may also affect the House here. For under the then Minister for Public Innovation, Mrs Sophie Løhde, a unanimous Parliament recognised that there are many problems with pools and that we should try to use pools a little less. We should work on that in principle, because pools have something called transaction costs, which are incredibly high. A lot of money simply disappears in transaction costs, and they will never please anyone. In fact, we have promised each other that in the Folketing. All parties participated except New Citizens because they were not elected. So I think we could try to remember that, since we have been sitting in the Ministry of Finance or representatives of our parties have said that it was right too. Then I would say that we really need to go into the details of bureaucracy in order to combat it. It's also part of why it's hard. A few years ago, Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen and I of the Left traveled around South and South Jutland collecting examples of unnecessary bureaucracy. One of the examples was that in home care, the sales names of medicinal products were to be recorded in the medical courses. But you also have a principle of generic substitution, that is to say you have to buy the cheapest generic product, and therefore the sales names need to be changed all the time. It's wasting a hell of a lot of time. We fought for it and changed it, so you can just write the name of the active substance, and the dose, of course. But what I just want to say is that bureaucracy is a huge problem. You have to go so far into things before you find out. There are big gains to be made by hunting for bureaucracy, but it's real battle from house to house. Therefore, I do not think we should give up on this, because often and often the money is poured straight into the drain and could get out to work and do a lot of sensible things. It's hard, but you don't have to give up because there's really, really much to pick up. I hope we can take that into account in this debate as well. Now it was up on Friday, and it's been up here. This is an important issue which we must not neglect. We welcome the proposal for adoption and look forward to voting for it when it comes to the vote. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217184723	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and then we move on to the Minister for Health and the Minister for the Elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217184742	Thank you very much. Many thanks also from me for a very, very good debate here today on a very real problem. I think it suits the Parliament, and thus society too, to talk about the problems that are real. Yesterday morning I had the pleasure of meeting with the Alzheimer's Association as part of the preparation for this discussion, and it is a problem that cannot be closed to, because it does not go away, because every three hours a Dane dies as a result of a dementia disease and 400,000 lives today with a dementia patient in the family. We can see that research now shows that, far more than has been thought, we can prevent dementia and delay dementia and, if we get a diagnosis and get the help we need, we can also postpone the power of dementia. That is, it's absolutely crucial that we go to this problem this way. Of course, there must be political disagreement, and we have had that today, because there is always in Parliament, and there is no reason to pretend that there is not, because there is of course, but I think it is also worth taking note of the consensus that it is a social responsibility. It is not the individual dementia patient; it is not the individual relatives; it is a social responsibility to help, so that people with dementia can live a safe and dignified life, and so that their relatives can be there for them and have the power to be there for them. That is why, in these concluding remarks, I would again like to acknowledge that a broad majority in the Danish Parliament is behind it. It seems to me that I have not been fully awake, because I actually thought it was all parties in the Folketing, but it turns out that one party, New Citizens, is not part of the agreement, but the rest of the Danish Parliament's parties are included in the agreement on the follow-up to the dementia action plan, which thus guarantees 244 million. kr. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a few comments on the specific initiatives we have mentioned here. That is what is needed here, that is to say, to shelve the party discussions, and then let us work together to find solutions that are unbureaucratic, helping our relatives and helping people with dementia. So again I would like to thank the Left, the Danish People's Party and the Conservative People's Party for raising the debate here today. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217185042	Thank you, Minister. There are a few brief comments. The first is for Mrs Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217185050	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister. Now we heard earlier that the SF will retable their motion for a resolution B 116, which will, of course, require the government to make a legislative proposal which will ensure that the municipalities are compensated financially in relation to the growth in the number of elderly per year. the municipality, provided that the municipalities actually increase their expenditure in the area of the elderly. And we have asked countless times, in relation to this municipal agreement, what specific priority has been given to the elderly. And we have not been able to get an answer to that. Now that we have received an answer from the SF that this motion for a resolution will be retabled, which says that the municipalities should only have money if they actually increase expenditure in the area of the elderly, I would just like to ask the Socialist Government, here in the form of the Minister for Health and the elderly, whether they will support the SF's motion for a resolution when it is tabled.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217185151	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217185154	I think you should be careful listening. When a rapporteur from the Left interprets SF's welfare policy, it's kind of like hearing a certain master read the Bible. I think this picture is right next to the dial. As I understand the SF's rapporteur and the answers provided by the Chair of the SF, it was precisely to ensure that the money goes along, and that was the big debate when the SF put forward the proposal under the previous government: should the money follow when we get more older, or should we have cuts? That's what's happening now. That is why this government is firm that our answer to that is that, in addition to the things we have mentioned here, there is this welfare law which ensures that we follow what sounds so bureaucratic, that is, the demographic trait, which means that when we grow older, there must also be money for us to have proper care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217185249	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217185251	I hear a lot of words from the Minister, but no answer. Now I'm just trying to ask again: will the government support B 116 if the SF puts it forward when they put it forward? We have just heard the SF's rapporteur say so; yes, they are resubmitting the motion for a resolution. Does the government support that?
ParlaMint-DK_20191217185309	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217185310	As I said, the government's answer to the question is whether to keep up with the demography, so that we get more elderly people to go beyond the municipal agreements and finance agreements that have been concluded and are about to work per year. January 1st, to make a definite welfare law. If you look up the paper produced by the parties around the government, namely the paper of understanding, you will also see that it is clearly written there that there is a consensus that the money should follow. And that is our answer, not a motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217185346	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Karina Adsbøl for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217185350	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his speech. And I would say to the Minister that if the Minister needs a friend, the Danish People's Party would be happy to help the Minister in this area. We have said in the past that the clip card scheme must be incorporated into the legislation... that is not what the minister thinks... and the same goes for care. The reason why we have raised the debate is that there have also been a number of criticisms from the Elders cause, i.e. those who speak for the elderly, among others. with the articles "Finanslov 2020: Where did the older area go?" The Finance Act fails the weakest elderly. That's why it's important to focus on this, but one is the money, another is how to spend the money that is. And how do we ensure that the funds allocated are quality assurance? Because, of course, they have to go to what they have to go to. Unfortunately, there are not so many earmarked funds for this area. But that is the one thing, that is how we ensure it. Then I would like to ask you about what the Minister mentioned in his speech earlier, namely the matter on which you could read in the Ekstrabladet. I would like to know whether the Minister thinks that there should be a ban on the use of fabric belts.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217185505	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217185506	Well, thank you to the Danish People's Party. I felt like I was in a Carole King song like that when they asked me if I needed a friend. Well, we all have that once in a while, so maybe it's gonna happen again. With regard to the issue of earmarking, pools, etc., I would recommend that you listen a little to the Liberal Alliance. That is also a new thing for me to say about the view that the good opinions in a pool can sometimes turn into a pool tyranny. It also sounds great when you say earmarking, but it has to be documented that you have to apply for, and in this way you have to spend an enormous amount of time doing paperwork rather than doing work with the elderly, along with our demente, which is what this is all about here. So I am not in favour of putting confidence out of place in this way. And as far as the specific case of restraint is concerned, the Board for Patient Safety has just been in action there, that is to say to clean up this matter, and I really think that was needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217185611	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217185612	Yeah, I'm familiar with that. I myself raised the matter with the Minister, so I have followed it. I ask whether the Minister will change anything in this area, i.e. in relation to whether you need it I know that we have recently reached an agreement on the use of force to look at it with fabric harnesses again. Something else is that the Minister says that pool tyranny and earmarking can be a bit awkward, but we sometimes have to do that from in here, sir. Minister, and why are we so? We are because we can see that when we want the good intentions in the area of the elderly, that is just not what happens; then it may be that you give priority to an artificial grass lawn or something else rather than warm hands.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217185652	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217185654	But now I think we have to be honest in saying that the Danish Parliament must also take action in its own bosom, because that is not possible if the welfare of our elderly is reduced in one month. That is what has happened until this six-month period and then a month goes by, and then you put new money into a gaping empty hole, and then you say from in here that everything is now solved. And it is not, because the budgets are less than what they should be in our municipalities. That is exactly why I keep coming back to our municipal agreement, because this is the first time that we have been following the demographics in relation to what we have done in the last four years together.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217185730	Thank you to the Minister for Health and the elderly. There are no more brief comments. And then Jane Heitmann, the rapporteur for the questioners, has asked to round off here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217185743	Thank you. On behalf of the Danish People's Party, the Conservative People's Party and the Left, I would like to thank my good colleagues for a very fine debate and thank you for being so numerous. There is no doubt that we are all passionate about the dementia area. I can hear that, and I am very pleased to hear several people mention that we need to focus on relief offers, that we need to focus on reducing the consumption of antipsychotic medicines, and I actually believe that there were several people who mentioned staffing skills raising • the staff who have to take care of our dementia and take care that they are as well able to do so. So I just want to sign for a really fine debate... thank you so much for that... and say Merry Christmas.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217185831	Thanks for that and you too. As no one else has asked to speak, the question has now been closed. As I have said, the vote on the proposals for adoption will take place only on Thursday 19 December 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20191217185856	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 18 December 2019 at 6 pm. 9. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
