ParlaMint-DK_20191122100019	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Sikandar Siddique (ALT) and Uffe Elbæk (ALT): Request no. F 22 (Will the Minister explain the need for a Nazi crisis response and what the government is currently doing to protect the religious minorities, including the Jewish and Muslim, from the increasing threat of right-wing extremism and neo-naziism in Denmark?). Peter Skaarup (DF) and Pia Kjærsgaard (DF): Request no. F 23 (What initiatives will the government take to stem anti-Semitism in Denmark, including the violent destruction of Jewish burial sites that have taken place recently, and how will the government ensure that the necessary measures are now and here put in place to ensure the necessary security and security for the Jews in this country?). Titles on notified cases will appear at www. Parliamentstidende.dk. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20191122100052	The debate is open and the first rapporteur on the platform is from the Social Democratic Party. Sir. Jep Bruus, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122100111	Thank you. This bill is, of course, a re-submission of a proposal made by the then Conservative Minister of Justice, which was not completed because of the fact that we had a parliamentary election. It follows from Section 16 of the Public Procurement Act that administrative rules can be laid down to ensure that the authorities regularly draw up mailing lists with the post that comes in and out and is then published on the authorities' website, and as part of the Public Procurement Act there is also a section 44 which states that the section on these mailing lists should be revised. Over the years, this revision paragraph has been postponed a few times, and the bill which is then retabled here is about repealing this revision paragraph, § 44. This does not mean that the second paragraph will be revised somewhat technically, namely the possibility of introducing these open mailing lists administratively. I think it is, and not surprisingly, that the Social Democratic Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122100232	Thank you. There are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122100236	Thank you. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur thinks that the public law that exists today is fine and well functioning, or whether the rapporteur does not think that there should be any more openness.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122100250	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122100252	There is, of course, a lot of energy in discussing the Public Service Act. The Public Service Act represents a balance between, on the one hand, the right of the public to be able to control the processes that are going on and, on the other hand, the legitimate need to have some decision-making processes and some workflows in the ministries, which can also work, and the exciting discussion we will actually come back to in January, when I think there will be a question debate in the Danish Parliament. After all, what we are discussing today is whether a paragraph should be revised, and that is what this bill is about removing.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122100334	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122100335	Then it must also mean that the government does not want to change anything in the public law when it does not want to retain a statutory revision clause.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122100346	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122100347	Yes, it is quite true that when you made this public law, you evaluated it back in 2017, and there have been negotiations about whether to adjust it, and I knew that those negotiations were being conducted now I have not even participated in them. That is why we have not found the opportunity to revise the Public Service Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122100411	Thank you. The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122100416	Thank you. When you choose to revise one paragraph, it is an expression of a choice, and you could also choose to revise several paragraphs if you wanted to. In late summer there was a report by GRECO, the anti-corruption unit of the EU, which gave some considerable criticism of the Danish Public Service Act in relation to the many exceptions that are from granting access to documents. I would like to ask the rapporteur if the rapporteur is not very impressed when the anti-corruption unit of the European Union, Greco, says that there are, therefore, some quite significant things that we should perhaps take and look at. Surely it cannot be anything that strengthens confidence in Denmark as a country that we are being criticised by our public law in relation to being open as a country.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122100510	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122100511	Yeah, well, every input always makes an impression, no matter where they come from. They can then make more or less impressions, but of course one must always be open and listen to what is being said, and it is no secret that over the years there has been criticism of the public law. It just doesn't change, you know. the criticism which also comes from the Danish Journalist Federation, which almost wants there to be no law at all, and unhindered access to all documents. It must also be said that there is in fact a need here to have some workflows where papers can move between different links so as to end up in a final result, which among other things. is some service to the Minister. That is why it is an expression of a balance, and we think that balance is in order and, of course, we are listening, and we have done so in the course of the negotiations that have taken place, among other things. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122100612	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122100613	I think that being very open and willing to listen was a very positive response. I will sign for that and we will make a lot of proposals which we hope the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party could be willing to listen to. That is why I wanted to hear what it could be for some places in the public law, perhaps the rapporteur could be open to look at it again. Are there some places where it seems that there could be an extra look at some changes in the public law, in addition to what has just been proposed today?
ParlaMint-DK_20191122100649	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122100651	No, now I think that the radical rapporteur chooses one part of what I said and then overheard the other part. Because I said, of course, you always listen to criticism. The second part I said was that a great deal of energy has been devoted to negotiating a review of the Public Service Act and no agreement has been reached, and that is why we have no plans to launch a new round of negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122100712	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. So we thank the Social Democrat rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line to the rapporteur, Mr. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122100725	Thank you for the floor. It was supposed to be sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, the rapporteur for the public of the Left, but he is on mission and so I would now like to say what he wanted to say. But it's like this from Parliament's platform that you can't just get rid of questions, so everyone is welcome to ask what they want to do on this subject. So you shouldn't hold back just because it's me and not sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, speaking. The proposal we are debating is a re-submission of L 176, which was tabled back in February but which lapsed due to the announcement of elections. The draft law, as the Social Democrats' rapporteur has also explained, is about repealing the revision clause in section 44 of the Public Procurement Act, so that there is no longer any requirement for revision of Article 16 of the Law on mailing lists. As you know, an experimental system of mandatory mailing lists has been introduced in four selected authorities. The pilot scheme was evaluated by an expert committee in 2017, which stressed that the question of whether a permanent system of open mailing lists should be established is based on a political decision. Since then, there have been conciliation discussions on a new Public Procurement Act, which is why the revision of the Postal List provision was postponed from 2017 to 2018, and since the negotiations on the Public Procurement Act have unfortunately ended without a new agreement in the last parliamentary term, we see no reason to postpone the revision of the Postal List provision once again. We therefore support the abolition of the requirement for an audit clause. Having said that, I would like to stress that the abolition does not change the administrative nature of the introduction of mailing lists. That is the position of the Left in this matter, or to put it very briefly: we are, of course, in the draft law put forward by our government a few months ago, and we therefore also support the identical proposal put forward by the current government.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122100935	There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122100939	Thank you. The rapporteur was, of course, recently part of a government in which it was part of the government base that there would be a significant change to the public law. And the rapporteur has also just made known, and I would like to acknowledge that it was regrettable that the negotiations on a new law on public access to documents were stranded. And then I would like to know whether it is still the ambition of the Left to change the public law, as expressed in, among other things, the Treaty of Rome. In other words, if you still have those ambitions, you were part of the government base. For then we can obtain a majority if it is regrettable that the rapporteur understands that nothing has happened to the public law. Could the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party be willing to engage in some real discussions on this? Because then there could actually be a majority to get through with something.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122101034	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122101036	In other words, we think that there is a technical and factual basis for keeping a closer eye on the current government than on the previous one. But that is not a surprising point of view; that is, our policy is the same, and therefore it may well be that you have to look at whether there are some places where you could do something different. And to be perfectly honest, I do not think that is what is at the top of the Left's list at the moment, but if the current government wants to convene discussions on it, we will of course come forward. We are on the basis of what was in our previous government, but we must also take down the fact that we did not manage to carry out a review.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122101119	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122101120	At least that wasn't the answer I was hoping for. However, I would like to ask what the rapporteur said that there might be some things to look at. Could the rapporteur say what kind of places the Left would be interested in looking at in the public law if we had to change it a little?
ParlaMint-DK_20191122101138	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122101139	No, it's the honest answer to give. I think that if you are going to talk about something like the Public Act and also about how to change some things, you have to have a complete estimate of where it should be. We had some thought about this when we were in government and they were also the basis for those negotiations. But when I answer no, it is because, of course, you can criticize me for simply not inside exactly what these proposals are. But it is our permanent rapporteur in this area, Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, so I'm sure if you ask him, he'll answer it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122101220	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122101224	Then I'll be looking forward to talking to Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, and I will also look forward to speaking to Mr. Karsten Lauritzen. It's just about those mailing lists where the rapporteur just said that there had been some negotiations under the VLAK government and that unfortunately no change could be made there. Does this mean that the Left is in favour of there being some change in relation to the mailing lists in the Public Service Act? It must surely be the case that, if there have been negotiations that did not end up like this, we will soon be able to identify which party prevented it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122101257	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122101259	What I said, and I say this again, is that the legislative proposal put forward by the previous government, of which we were a part, is, of course, we stand by and we support it here today. Then you can easily start a major study work on why the Public Service Act was not amended and why amendments to the Public Service Act were not made. I find it difficult to answer that question precisely here today, because although I was a member of the government, I was not involved in those discussions.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122101337	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122101338	It is quite true that the rapporteur said that the bill was supported. I heard that. But I also think I heard that it was said from the speaking chair of the Folketing that there had been an intention to change it, but that could not be achieved in the negotiations. If, in that sentence, one among others... is left, I guess the Left had an intention to change it. That is why my interest revolves around whether it is still the position of the Left to change it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122101407	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122101408	I understand the question, and I guess it's also the result of Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbølls-Bille's new party. That's quite fair. I cannot give a clear answer to that question today. I have to be honest with you. However, I am sure that we will have another opportunity to discuss it and to discuss the law on public access to documents. There we will be ready to answer the questions that are being asked.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122101439	There is one more brief comment. Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122101444	It is clear that there are different views on the public law in here and that it can be a difficult thing to reach together on; I have understood that there were negotiations that failed, etc. But the open mailing lists I'm thinking is a bite that we could go out and maybe agree on. So I would really just like to ask the Left if, if we were to try to gather support for a resolution on open mailing lists, we would support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122101507	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122101509	I believe that the public law must be dealt with together. I understand the political strategy of asking whether we could not take out an element. I myself have practiced this when I had a case that I would very much like to have through as rapporteur. But I think that the most reasonable thing is to discuss the general public law, and there it is the government that has the tact, I am afraid I have to go down. We wish we had it in the Left, but we do not, and that is why it is up to the government and the Minister of Justice to take action if anything is to be done in relation to the revision of, discussion on, negotiations on the Public Service Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122101546	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122101549	I think that is a really bad attitude, because it is a guarantee that nothing will happen, and I think that is just a problem. I think that we could work for much more transparency and openness than there is today, and I would just like to regret that the Left has that position, because nothing is going to happen to this. Everyone knows that there is a vote agreement and that it can only be changed if it is that the Left and the Socialists want something. So the prospect of getting some changes through in connection with the Public Service Act is, of course, zero.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122101620	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122101622	We are great advocates of transparency. We are very much in favour of seeing what is at the root of political decisions, and I think it is difficult to find a country where there are as good opportunities as there are in Denmark. In general terms, we would like to help to improve this, but it will not be here in the Chamber today, and if we report clearly on this matter, I will not be saying it either. That would be weird.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122101656	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122101708	Thank you. After all, the Publicity Act entered into force on 1 January 2014, and this follows from Section 16 (3) of the Act. 1 that the Minister of Justice may, after negotiation with the Secretary of State, decide that a list of documents received or sent by the authority on that day, i.e. mailing lists, may be drawn up. With effect from 1 January 2015, an experimental system of mandatory mailing lists was launched and a report was also submitted by the Mailing List Committee in 2017. Section 44 of the Public Service Act states that the Minister of Justice is obliged to make a bill on the revision of § 16 on the open mailing lists, in the parliamentary year 2018-19, but since the parties behind the agreement on a new public disclosure law cannot agree to amend the Public Procurement Act, the revision of the postal list provision has been postponed several times in 2017 and 2018 and for this reason it is now proposed to repeal the revision clause. It is a fact that today there is a large and well-documented material that over the years has shown that there are many positive experiences in establishing and managing open mailing lists, and that the board of open mailing lists does not have to cause major administrative or resource difficulties. I mean, that's one way of doing that. is deduced from a number of Danish municipalities that have open mailing lists today, as have both Sweden and Norway for a number of years had a very well-functioning practice in relation to mailing list schemes. The positive experience is also reflected in the evaluation report issued in July 2017. After all, the committee's task was to evaluate the final experimental system of mailing lists in the Ministry of Health and the Elders, the Region of Southern Denmark, the Danish Maritime Authority and the Municipality of Slagelse and in this context to draw up different models of how a possible scheme could be developed. After all, the evaluation was intended to form the basis for a position on the extent to which the system should be made permanent. In the report, the Committee of Experts therefore recommends that any system should cover at least all departments, but that, ultimately, it will always be a political decision that has to be decided from in here, and it is therefore not surprising that the Committee of Experts has refrained from taking a direct position on this issue. The preparatory work in the form of several experimental schemes, their evaluation and concrete Danish and Nordic experiences from existing mailing list systems have now been completed, and the only thing that is missing is an early and active position on the design of the future mailing list system. But we can then see that it is not going to happen. The principle of openness in the administration is, after all, a fundamental principle of Danish society. One must be able to act as a watchdog and find out what is going on with those who manage power in society. And this means for the Danish People's Party that journalists and citizens must be able to apply for access to documents, so that among other things. can be controlled by what is going on, even behind the thick walls inside the ministries. In the Danish People's Party, we voted against the Public Service Act and note that the parties behind the Public Service Act do not wish to revise the rules on open mailing lists, which were originally adopted, and therefore I can also announce that the Danish People's Party, as is currently the case, intends to vote against the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122102046	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. We move on in the rapporteur's line to the Radical Left rapporteur, Mr. Kristian Hegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122102059	Thank you. The bill here is a resubmission of the former L 176. The Radical Left was against this, because we want a major amendment to the public law, and the Radical Left still wants that. With the amendment of the Public Procurement Act in 2012, an experimental system of mailing lists was launched. A mailing list shall be a list of documents sent or received by an authority on that day. In a review of the Public Procurement Act, it was intended that mailing lists should be examined in more detail in the light of precisely the experiment in which a number of models were presented, and therefore the revision clause. As you know, as the conciliation discussions in the last period on amending the Public Procurement Act did not, unfortunately, lead to changes, including changes on mailing lists, the draft law then proposes that the revision clause cease so that mailing lists are not taken into account. And we think that's too bad. Because different models of mailing lists were presented, including in relation to a balance, precisely for resource reasons, and when there is a need for a change in the public law, we might as well take the issue of mailing lists into account. So maybe there are some who will try to make themselves a little witty and say: Well, was the Radical Left not part of the agreement in 2012? First of all, it has become clear that the exceptions to access to documents have been applied to a greater extent than was intended. At least that is what can be reasonably derived from the Ombudsman's report of 2016. And secondly, it is always permitted to become wiser, and we will encourage even more. Because there is an urgent need for a change in the law on public access to documents. This year there was a disheartening report from the EU anti-corruption unit, GRECO, concerning inter alia: Public disclosure law. And this is the first time we have been criticized at international level for our public law; for the exceptions that prevent public access to information. In particular, on page 20 of the report, there is a sharp line on the application of the many exceptions to public access to documents, which we strongly urge to be dealt with and to listen to the anti-corruption unit. It hopes that the Radical Left could, of course, give rise to a call for discussions on how to respond to the concerns raised by GRECO. For Denmark has an interest in appearing as a country that is open and also among the most open, and which an anti-corruption unit that GRECO is not after. It will strengthen confidence in us as a country. For openness breeds trust and secrecy the opposite, and confidence in politicians may not be the greatest. That is why we will take a stand with the increasingly closed way in which power is managed. So let's pull out the blackout curtains. We shall have a very good debate on this at the next Question Time in January, to which I have taken note of the call and which is why I shall look forward at the same time to discussing the matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122102437	Thank you. There are no brief comments to Mr Radicale's rapporteur, so we are moving forward here with the SF rapporteur, Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122102508	After all, the proposal is about open mailing lists, and I thought that, for the sake of the listeners, you could make a small service announcement about what it really is. In the Region of Southern Denmark you actually have open mailing lists, which means that every day a list of incoming and outgoing mail is made for the region house in Vejle, and it is actually possible for anyone to click on it and follow it if you want to. Then you can ask: What is it supposed to be used for? Isn't it just bureaucracy for no good in the world that somebody has to sit and make such lists? But it's not. It is actually about democracy and transparency and everyone's ability to keep up with it, because if, as a citizen or as a journalist for that matter, you are concerned about a case, it can be difficult to know exactly what kind of documents you have to take an interest in or seek access to, and the mailing lists can actually give an idea of that. That is why the SF cannot support this proposal either. We couldn't last time it was there either. The consequence is, of course, that the proposal with one blow removes the commitment of the government to whether and to what extent a mandatory mailing list system should be implemented at all. There remains an inactive provision which, despite good intentions to create a long-awaited increase in public administration transparency, now just appears to have long-term prospects for achieving it. In the SF, we would like to have open mailing lists and we would also like to have a review of the Public Service Act. We hope that the Minister would like to call for negotiations or discussions on the Public Service Act. We think it is necessary, and we think it is a pity that only the two parties that are the most powerful in the whole of Parliament, namely the Social Democrats and the Left, are left behind. Democracy requires transparency, openness and trust, so let us now turn off the darklight, which still casts shadows away, and in this context mailing lists may be just a small possible beam of light.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122102730	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122102740	Thank you. The process around the very restrictive public disclosure law we have in Denmark seems to me to have developed into a bit of a farce. After all, we are now in a situation in which some of the parties that helped to make changes to the public law, which means that it has become much more restrictive and that much more has been closed around our administration, have changed their attitude. I remember that during the election campaign they called themselves an open troika. To them I would just like to say: Welcome to, it was so nice that you have changed your mind. After all, it is about the Socialist People's Party, the Radical Left and the Conservative People's Party. It is really nice that you have changed your attitude, welcome to the unholy openness alliance, which so far has consisted of the parties Enhedslisten, the Danish People's Party and the Liberal Alliance. Welcome to, it's nice, and I hope you can use your muscles in the conciliation circle to change the public law. Unfortunately, we are in a situation, as Mrs Lorentzen Dehnhardt has just explained, where, after the elections, there is exactly a majority between the Left and the Social Democratic Party, which means at least as has been said so far in the debate that there will be no changes in the public law. And I think that is really a pity, perhaps especially because in the last few weeks we have spent a great deal of time discussing how to get rid of anti-democratic forces, and we have spent a great deal of time discussing how good a democracy we have in Denmark, and there I think it would be obvious to strengthen our own democracy by creating more openness and openness about the administration. Having said that, we have to go back to the mailing lists, which are actually what we are discussing today, but I do not think we can take that debate without mentioning where we have the general public law. In the Enhedslisten, we find it difficult to see the justification for repealing the revision clause in isolation. It seems to us that compulsory open mailing lists could easily be adopted, and we could easily make it a permanent arrangement without revising the rest of the Public Service Act. We could easily take this little corner and then get it in, so after all, there was a little more openness. I don't see why these two things should be connected. For us to see in Enhedslisten it would be a good step to introduce a rule on mailing lists, and we can do that here and now in the Folketing. Because, as we see it, it is indeed necessary to ensure that there is a public awareness of the administration and that there is a real possibility of controlling those in power. It is one of the most important cornerstones of a democracy, and it is incomprehensible to me when we spend so much time talking about how we fight against anti-democratic forces that we do not even strengthen this important cornerstone of our democracy about openness in the administration. Enhedslisten can't support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122103052	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the Enhedslisten rapporteur. I do not see the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, so we move on to Mr Conservatives' list. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122103107	Thank you for the floor. Let me start by saying that the alternative does not support the proposal. It seems that the government is more interested in looking at all the Danes in the cards than showing themselves what they contain. That is not the direction in which a Danish people's government should go. However, the mailing lists are only a small part of the entire Public Service Act. It only makes it more unsatisfactory that they cannot even be delivered in relation to them. Because this is basically about openness. The government lacks to deliver in terms of openness and transparency, although this may mean a more cumbersome process in the ministries. We are open to good arguments against relaxing the Public Service Act. It may be that it is almost impossible to be a minister or responsible head of the country if you are looked at even more over your shoulder than you do today. And sometimes it may also be absolutely necessary for there to be a space where you cannot keep up with outsiders when decisions on the security of the country are to be made, but I think we should have much more open and much more honest. So in committee we will be open to all good arguments, but we strongly argue that we should have created much more openness and transparency. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122103224	There are no brief comments, so we thank the alternative rapporteur and go further and welcome Mrs Pernille Vermund from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122103233	Thank you for the floor. When I got these papers stuck in my hand last week and had to understand what it was we were going to debate today, I have to admit that I found out that the proposal is relatively technical. And when it's so technical, it's easy to just think, to reach yes, it says this, if it's implemented in all departments and ministries, will cost a lot of money. This meant that I was in a situation where the consideration that we should not waste our citizens' money on unnecessary bureaucracy is a heavy weight for me. It does for me as a citizen. The second is respect for democracy, for openness, for confidence, which has also been expressed by those parties here today, which are not parties of power, but which are smaller parties which, in their different ways, see themselves as defenders of those who want to bite the rulers a little in their arms. In that balance, my bowl of weight has been tipped over to the benefit of democracy. It has been tipped off that it costs something to have a democracy. It may be that it is not the mailing lists alone that do it, but if it is the key that is needed to open this system, so that we can reopen the discussion about a public law or our public law, and how it is to be reviewed, we would like to contribute to it. I am actually a little sorry that you have to sit with something that seems like a detail, but you have to make a big deal of it at this stage when we have a public law that I fully agree with should be looked at in general terms. I also hope that the government will take a little more care to revise this law so that it does not make it unnecessarily difficult for ministers and ministers to do work, but, on the other hand, it does not continue to carry on with this fire, which is about citizens increasingly distrusting politicians, distrusting the system. So, with those words in mind, I hope that this message penetrates and, although there is no majority in favour of voting no, I am voting no and we are voting no, and we are also doing so with the hope that this will really be taken seriously. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122103455	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's report to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122103502	Thank you. Liberal Alliance is in favour of open mailing lists. It is a good tool for citizens and journalists, the general public at all, to get an insight into what communication is going on between authorities and private individuals, and that is why we are in favour of open mailing lists. We will even go one step further, namely to an open search in mail. In our view, it must gradually be the case that we can demand from all public authorities that they register all incoming and outgoing mail electronically, and then it automatically goes on a mailing list in that process, and citizens would automatically be able to search the mail without having to rush to access it, but simply search the mail. We'd love to. Of course, it must be done in the process that the authority, the relevant authority, puts a flybone next to all the post in which there is no sensitive information that cannot be accessed, while, on the other hand, there will be some post that there are doubts as to whether it can be widely distributed without any sensitive information going out where it cannot come out. That is also the case today when it comes to assessing whether or not access to documents is granted, and it would also have to be done in this process, that is to say, putting a fly bone in all the post which does not contain sensitive information and which immediately tolerates the public eye. So we are, if possible, the party that is most in favour of open mailing lists, and we are even in favour of open mailing. However, we are voting in favour of this bill, and we are doing so because it makes no sense to have a provision in a law that the Minister for Justice has to present a revision of the law in this area when there is no majority in the Folketing for this revision. Then the Minister for Justice has to come up with an audit just for the sake of appearances, and then the Folketing has to vote it down. Or the Minister for Justice must come up with a revision which is completely indifferent, for which a broad majority in the Folketing can vote, because it is simply not possible to comply with the law that the Minister for Justice must present a revision for which a majority can be formed in the Folketing, and therefore it makes no sense to have this revision provision and we therefore vote in favour of its abolition.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122103742	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so I would like to thank the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, and then we will move on to Mr Beazley's report. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122103754	It is a good idea with open mailing lists, it is a good idea with openness in the administration. And this bill is, in fact, such a resolution proposal, because it is a symbol of the fact that it has been incredibly difficult to move forward with the improvements to the public law and the approach to more openness that have been discussed for years. The whole discussion about this law dates back to the VK government, which made a proposal to restrict access to the public in administrative decisions, mailing lists, etc., but which was opposed by a broad majority in the Folketing until a new government came in 2011 under Helle Thorning, where S, SF and the Radical Left suddenly made an agreement with the Left and the Conservative People's Party to make the law that V and K had proposed before the 2011 elections. That would then have tied up not only two but three parties, and then we could not really do anything about it, even though a number of parties tried, also during the 2011-2015 parliamentary term. After the 2015 elections, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party then went into government with the Left, and when you go into government, you have to respect the settlements that one of the governing parties was part of, and therefore you couldn't really get on with it, except that we could see that at least the SF and the Radicals kind of drip off again, and that's nice. Then we were in a situation when we were approaching the elections now that everyone could be free if only we were sure that S and V did not get a majority. But then it was the case that former Prime Minister Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen was gifted with a moment of liberation and suddenly bet on this very S-V majority, and the only thing that came out of it was that the citizens too will not be able to gain the increased public access, for which we know there is a majority in favour of the people. So congratulations to the majority of the S-V, because that is what really ensures that there will be no more openness. This proposal would only have been required if K and LA were still in government, and therefore I do not feel personally obliged to vote in favour of this proposal, which covers something I asked Mr. Karsten Lauritzen about, but as I couldn't really be allowed to talk about that someone didn't want to be a part of it. Okay, if the government was in favour of it, it's not V, K or LA, and when SF and R have said they were in favour of it, it's not them either. The Danish People's Party and Enhedslisten were legally excused because they sat outside the conciliation circle, so it wasn't them either, and New Citizens hadn't come in the Folketing, so it wasn't them either. Yeah, it's not forward either, because we weren't formed yet, so it's not us either. Then there is only one party left that really prevents open mailing lists, and that is the Social Democracy. That is why I am very much looking forward to the Minister for Justice being in the chair in a moment, because then we all have the opportunity to ask the government in common why the Socialists, as the only party, are preventing open mailing lists in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122104135	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so now it is the Minister for Justice's turn to get on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122104145	It was like a warm-up speech, kind of a warm-up band for me to have the pleasure of going to the platform. Let me start with what the bill is about. It is not because I have the illusion that we remain there. The proposal is about the obligation to revise the so-called postal list clause in the Public Procurement Act. The postal list clause in the Public Service Act is in section 16, and since no one else has wanted to explain exactly what it contains, I must take it on board. This is clear from Section 16 (3) of the Public Procurement Act. 1, that: the Minister of Justice may, after negotiation with the Minister concerned, provide that ministerial departments, as well as specified underlying agencies and directorates, shall draw up a list of documents received from or sent by the Authority on that day (post-list). The Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior may, after negotiation with the municipality or region concerned, provide that the central administration of the municipality or region must draw up a list of documents received with or sent by the central administration on that day (post-list). ▪ What mailing lists are about is that you should be able to see what has come in and what has gone out of mail that day. Then there is the provision that is really under discussion today, namely paragraph 44, and what does section 44 say? It says: "The Minister of Justice is proposing a revision of section 16 of the parliamentary year 2018-19. So there's an obligation to do this revision unless you remove this provision. That is really what this is all about. So material things, whether mailing lists can be made or not, are not changed. What is changing is this review provision alone. This means that there is no longer any requirement to revise the postal list provision. That's what the bill is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122104402	There are a few brief comments to the Minister of Justice. The first one's from sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122104408	When you talk about revising or removing a provision, it is of course relevant to look at other provisions at all. I would like to hear the Minister for Justice's position on this very depressing report, which earlier this year, namely in late summer, came from the GRECO anti-corruption unit, where Denmark for the first time received criticism at international level from our Public Access Act for the exceptions that prevent public access to information. Does the Minister agree that such criticism by the anti-corruption unit GRECO of our public law is highly inappropriate?
ParlaMint-DK_20191122104449	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122104450	The preliminary premise that when there is reason to look at a provision, there is reason to look at all the provisions, is not true. What is at issue here is that there is a specific legislative obligation to look at one provision and not all provisions.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122104506	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122104507	Then I would like to repeat what was my real question: what concerns the criticism we received from the GRECO anti-corruption unit, which, in late summer, indicated that the way in which the public law is administered in relation to the very wide access to exceptions gave rise to a pronounced criticism of Denmark. Does the Minister not agree that it is highly inappropriate to criticise Denmark in this respect?
ParlaMint-DK_20191122104539	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122104540	Well, as the Socialist rapporteur has already said, all the comments that have been made make an impression.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122104549	Thank you. The next brief remark is Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122104556	Thank you. I think what the Minister said was very funny. As I understood it, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille was a little warm-up band before the Minister, like the big band, came to the platform, and so it is that you often have high expectations when the big ones come to the platform. So I would like to know whether the government will change anything in the public law. At the same time, I would like to know whether the Minister for Justice remembers the time when the public law was voted through here in the Folketing and what happened was seen from the large windows.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122104628	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122104630	No and no.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122104632	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122104634	Those were short answers. Is it then to be understood that the government does not want more openness for the citizens, that the government does not want more openness for journalists and that the government does not want more openness for the Folketing, that is to say that there is no need to change anything in the public law at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20191122104655	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122104657	No, that's not how it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122104703	The next brief remark is Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122104706	The debate today has been quite clear in that, as the Minister himself says, this is a revision of the mailing lists. So it is not about whether we in the Folketing should adopt whether there should be mailing lists or not, but it is about whether we should remove the revision clause. Nevertheless, we are a number of parties, in fact, all other than the two power parties, the Left and the Social Democrats, who are voting against this bill; not because we do not want to remove the revision clause, but to send a clear signal to the government that there is legislation here that needs the evaluation, which is, of course, in the original legislative provision and which has not been achieved in the last period of government, and which, from my perspective, from the outside, is quite reasonable, also put pressure on the people to get it done. So if I have to ask a little more diplomatically than DF, I have to ask: does the Minister see that confidence and confidence in democracy can be maintained if a public law (fourth Vice-President Thank you! ) increasingly stands in the way of us gaining insight into how the government works?
ParlaMint-DK_20191122104828	Thank you for that! Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122104829	Yeah, I actually see that. I do not think that exactly the question of open mailing lists is what makes people trust our work as politicians or not. I think it's a jumble of all sorts of other things. I believe that one of the most important things we need to do in our political work is to try to be honest about what kind of motives drive us and to try to be honest about what kind of decisions we make and what the consequences are and what expectations you can have. I think there has been a tendency for people to have a political prospect that was unrealistic to deliver, instead of saying quite precisely: we cannot change the world overnight, but we can move in the right direction and it will take time and so on. That is one of the things I am trying to do in the area of justice, namely to say: we cannot get the wait away, but if we pull ourselves together, we can make it work and move the right way. And I think that's the way we're going to make politics.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122104931	Thank you. The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122104934	My question was not specifically on the mailing lists, but on the fact that we are a number of parties which send out a clear signal that we would very much like to discuss the Public Service Act again. It is not certain that everything must be removed. Now we have to see where we end up being very different parties, but basically I think what we can agree on is that we have a situation in which the people and journalists and the media are increasingly feeling that you cannot gain insight into what is going on in the power room, you can say. Is this a concern shared by the Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20191122105014	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122105015	No, it's not. In other words, I believe that the public law must reflect the balance that must be struck between the desire for openness, the need for openness, and, on the other hand, that, when you are a government, you must also be able to govern, so that you can also have the opportunity, for example, to do so. with its official work to discuss ideas, drafts etc., without it having to be exposed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122105044	Thank you. The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122105048	What does the Minister think is the problem with open mailing lists?
ParlaMint-DK_20191122105055	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122105056	You can also turn it around and ask: What brings added value to the open mailing lists? I am doubtful that they really provide added value. What is the consideration of those who have evaluated it is that, on the one hand, it can provide more openness, but, on the other hand, it has some costs. It is estimated for example. The departments say that if you have to make open mailing lists, as I remember, it will cost 25 million in operating costs. kr. a year. Would you rather spend that money on something else? Yeah, I think you'd rather. And that's not said because I can almost feel the questioner's next question... that our Danish democracy is not 25 million. kr. Worth it, and that's what it's been sold for. That's not what I'm saying. I am just saying that these are the considerations that have been put forward by those who have evaluated it, and that is the consideration that I agree with.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122105150	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122105155	But what are the benefits of open mailing lists?
ParlaMint-DK_20191122105156	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122105159	I'm not in favour of open mailing lists. I do not believe that open mailing lists provide added value. What is being said is that there may be more openness. Yes, there is. But in my opinion, the gain is to be seen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122105218	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122105301	There is no minister in this area, because it is Parliament's own responsibility. I will listen carefully to the debate on the proposal to be discussed in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Flemming Møller Mortensen. The rapporteur for the proposers must round the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122105312	Thank you. In fact, I also thought that there was an opportunity for the authors of the motion to motivate it as an introduction, but I would very much like to speak as chairman of the Socialist Group on the proposal tabled here by the New Citizens' Party. It is a question, as the President has also said, of introducing an annual 2-percent saving on group funding for the parties of the Folketing. In order for us to understand what is up and down in this, there will of course be a need to explain the purpose of our group support funds. In fact, there are three different ways of supporting the groups. There is a basic amount which is paid once a month to each parliamentary group. There is something called the amount of a mandate. It is paid monthly for each mandate that is held here in the Folketing. And the third and final element is expert grants. It is paid monthly to the parliamentary group, and it is paid in proportion to the number of seats you have. So it is the three elements that make up the group support funds. New citizens have then proposed that they should be reduced. On the socialist side, it is not our view that they should be reduced. And when I say that, it's a question of saying what the purpose of this is. There is, in fact, a very clearly defined purpose, and that is that the subsidies go to the parliamentary groups so that we can support the parliamentary work of the parliamentary group and also the individual members of parliament. These are activities which are initiated by the parliamentary group and which aim to promote the work of the parliamentary group or individual member of parliament when it comes to taking part in the political debate in our society. The funds must not be used to promote the election of candidates or certain results of parliamentary votes. It is therefore funds that are given to the members of the Folketing, to the parliamentary groups, in their work to be included in the democratic process of legislative work, including ensuring that a broad and good and objective political public debate is held on the work of the Folketing. Last, changes were made when the political decision was made in 2016, and this was about the introduction of the expert subsidy. At that time it was very clearly stated in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure that there was a recognition that many more things were going on in the Folketing at that time than had been done in the past. That is why it was a clear and very broad political decision, with a very broad political majority, which supported the importance of creating the opportunity for individual parliamentary groups to use expert assistance and to have specially qualified staff in communication; that it was also fully aware that there was a need for Members to be able to work more flexibly over the day, over the week, over the year. Many more meetings were held when you were a parliamentarian. This required more preparation, and this made it very much necessary for more assistance to be given to parliamentary work. So that's what a broad majority here in the Danish Parliament decided in 2016 with the start of January 1st 2017. From a social democratic point of view, it is, of course, absolutely essential for the well-being of the country in terms of democracy, in terms of popular debate and process, to support, but also to continue to develop, the work and opportunities and the framework that you have as a parliamentarian, as a parliamentarian, as a parliamentarian, precisely in order to strengthen the people's rule, to consolidate it and to ensure that as a parliamentarian, you can also defend as much as necessary the mandate that you have been given as a parliamentarian around the country, and in relation to the tasks that you are assigned here in the Folketing as a member of the Folketing, as a member of a parliamentary group. We think it's important. We argued for that in 2016, we are still arguing for that. We also argued that it is absolutely necessary for there to be full transparency in relation to the rules that exist, and we believe that there is at the moment. We believe it is absolutely necessary, as an opposition, for example, to be able to carry out proper control of the government, and I also believe that it is important, as a group chairman of a governing party, that we too, as a parliamentary group, should have that opportunity. We do not support the proposal as it is here, but we would very much like to see a debate on these matters under the auspices of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, for example, because these are dynamic sizes, and we must also be open to that. However, I believe that it should be in a debate which is in a different context from a resolution in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122105838	There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122105844	Thank you. When Social Democracy went from 2016 to 2017, they experienced an increase from 29 million. kr. EUR 40 million; kr. in these group support funds. What we're talking about here is a 2-percent saving. This means that if you took the 2017 accounts, the Social Democracy would still have 39 million. kr., i.e. 39 million. kr. Is it the rapporteur's view that for 39 million ECU? kr. Can't serve the members of parliament?
ParlaMint-DK_20191122105915	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122105916	What was assessed in 2016 and therefore enjoyed very broad political support was that the level that was laid down was necessary. And we have not, of course, initiated such an assessment in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure of how the money is spent and how qualified it is spent. That is why I also said that if you are going to go in and look at the level of the rules and the framework for what the money can be used for, then it is under the authority of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and Petitions.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122105947	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122105948	So I take this as an expression of the fact that the Social Democrats do not believe that 39 million. kr., if we take the 2017 accounts, is enough to serve a Social Democratic Parliamentary Group, and that has been noted.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122110001	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122110005	There are no comments on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122110008	The next brief remark is Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122110010	In view of the fact that everything else is equal, the public's money is collected in taxes and charges and is managed by the public, and something is spent on administration, including what is being spent here on group support funds. I would like to ask you about the financial bill put forward by the Social Democratic Party. Therein there were a number of areas where this 2-percent saving has been eliminated, which has been put down for years throughout society, but there are also areas where there is still a 2-percent saving. Does the rapporteur think that it is reasonable that as a politician we should not be aiming to make things better and more effective when we have the expectation that, for example, the cultural area or other areas must save year by year?
ParlaMint-DK_20191122110056	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122110058	We in the Social Democratic Party think that we should spend our money very, very wisely. This must be done in all areas of welfare. That is why we have also criticised it in some areas, for example. Health, on which I myself have been rapporteur for many years. There they had simply been cut to the bone so that they could not deliver what was expected and what was best for patients in terms of quality and patient safety, and the staff were stressed to an unnecessary extent. If we are to turn it over to the Folketing, we think it was a real decision, because the work of the Folketing has changed a great deal over the last few decades, and in order to consolidate our government of the people, our democracy and our democratic processes, it was the right thing to do with a very broad political majority back in 2016. One can say that New Citizens are new in the Folketing, and I would like to wish you luck in your work in here. I would also say that you have already come to a realization, for you have found that you need more funding. For new citizens, they quickly went out and said that group funding could be reduced by one third, and now it is a 2-percent saving per year that New Citizens are embarking on. But this is the Socialist position. If there is to be a discussion, let us do so in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122110211	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122110219	I heard correctly, that is to say, the rapporteur was talking about the fact that when we talk about the Social Democracy being given 40 million. kr. A year, not for the salaries of politicians, but for group support, that is, additional funds for which policy is to be pursued? We have a situation where politicians have for years decided more and more about the population, and then you say that because you make more and more laws, more rules, make it more troublesome to be a Dane, then it is also more trouble to be a politician, because then there is more to control and more to legislate about, and that is why we need more of the Danes' money. Does the rapporteur not see that we are in a vicious spiral?
ParlaMint-DK_20191122110250	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122110253	What I replied to was the rapporteur's remarks about 2-percent savings elsewhere in our society, where I drew a parallel to the... and where we had concluded on that why we fought to have the 2-percent saving eliminated in the health sector. The system around the most recent funds provided in relation to the expert grant is three years old and must be assessed, and it must be, because things are dynamic, not in this Chamber, but in a broad political discussion in which we think about other conditions and frameworks that are set for the work of members of parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122110332	Thank you. The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122110339	I would say that if the world were as ideal as Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen says that the parties and also the large parties used the many means they get to dig deep into the legislation with the best people who can see through the legislation and so on, I would probably also think that 40 million. kr. until the Social Democracy was the right thing to do. But when you look at the activities of the Social Democracy in particular for those funds, it is mostly about profiling and making campaigns, propaganda and efforts on social media, etc. What Social Democracy spends primarily on is that one can profile oneself more positively and the opponents more negatively in the campaign activity one has on social media. Is what the Social Democratic Party is spending money on really something that is very valuable to democracy? Or is it really helping to create a distrust of democracy that social democracy spends so much money on improperly setting others down and highlighting itself as someone who can solve all the world's problems?
ParlaMint-DK_20191122110440	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122110444	I know that we are using the group support funds entirely according to the rules set out here in the Danish Parliament. And what the Social Democrats have of other opportunities to spend money on campaigns and other things is something else. And in order to secure a government power, every party is doing exactly what they want, with the means they have for it. But the group support funds have been used for the purpose that has been decided. And that is what I spent a little time explaining, because the authors of the motion for a resolution have not written into the comments on the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122110515	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122110519	However, group support funds can also be used to employ people who sit and make graphics for Facebook, where you write untrue things about political opponents, as the Social Democrats do so often. So I do not really think that the way in which the Social Democrats spend the 40 million. kr. In this context, it is important to promote a good democratic dialogue. In fact, I think it is the opposite. I think that a great many staff resources are being used, which are being paid for through the group support funds, that is to say the 40 million. kr., to make low propaganda against political opponents.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122110558	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122110601	It is, of course, such a polemical discussion to take here in Parliament. I think the seriousness of this is too great, in relation to the use of the funds for what they should be used for. And the Social Democracy does. There is a complete set of rules, and it is the Bureau of Parliament that approves those budgets.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122110614	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to the Social Democrat rapporteur. We move on in the rapporteur's line to the rapporteur of the Left, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122110628	Thank you. First of all, I would like to congratulate the authors of the motion for a resolution. I think it is important that we look at how we spend the money made available to the people's regime for democracy, and it is also very relevant to discuss to what extent it should be and what assistance should be made available. I also understand if you want to point out the double standard in that in other areas you save, but when it comes to the Folketing when it comes to group funding, the amount just has to grow. I think it is an extremely relevant discussion to raise, and the Left is very happy to take part in that discussion. But we do so in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, which regulates the internal work of the Folketing. I look forward to taking the debate and discussion there, just as I look forward to discussing remuneration and all sorts of other things. But it has to be in the framework that now exists. Having said that, I understand very well that a new party such as the New Citizens' Party has a desire to raise the discussion in this Chamber. I think I would have done that, too, if I were in New Citizens' place. However, that does not change the fact that our position is, it is a discussion to be held in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. It is also the case that we want there to be good conditions for those who engage in politics. We need smart, intelligent, diligent people from all over society, from high to low, to engage in politics. We have the challenge at the moment that the way politics works there are too few people who want to go into politics. I would like there to be many more, and I would very much like to be personally outperformed by some who are more skilled than me, because we need the best people to be in the people's regime. But I don't know if I'm gonna stay. In the short term, the challenge is that there are very few people who want to run for politics at all, who want to do what those who sit in this Chamber today do and do every single day. Politics is not a 8-16 job, it is a job, and so there must be fair and fair conditions. Part of this is about remuneration, and we are happy to discuss it. Part of it is also about the assistance you get when you sit in the Folketing to do the daily work. Unfortunately, the amount of work is growing. It hasn't diminished. It grows and it also grows far too much. Personally, I believe that the Folketing should do something less. And if the Folketing did something less, there was no need for the assistance we get. However, the many more parties that have come want to put political things on the agenda all the time, all honour and respect for it. It must be possible to do it as a party, and there must also be the possibility that all other parties in the Folketing have a good opportunity and a framework to lift that work by means of assistance. There has been a professionalisation of Danish politics, and there has also been a greater scepticism about the figures coming from the central administration from the ministries. I do not think that is justified in some respects, but we must take that down, that is to say there is criticism of it. This is the reason why this expert grant has been made in the Folketing, which is a huge increase, I would honestly admit. But that's one of them. to match the central administration as a party. After all, how the parties use the expert subsidy and the group funding is up to the individual party, and that must be measured against under the rules that apply. I would just like to say that the expert subsidy is so lumped together that you can choose not to seek it if you do not think that you can spend the money wisely. I have great respect for that view, that is to say that we cannot use this money sensibly, and we do not want them as part of our parliamentary work. Then the rules are made so that you can say that we will only apply in half or about some of them or absolutely nothing. Well, that's pretty good. In the Left, we need all the money we can scrape together to control the government and promote our policy, and that is why we have applied for the expert subsidy, and that is what we are aiming for. That is why we are not voting for the motion for a resolution here, but we are happy to take the discussion in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure. But we are not voting in favour of the resolution because we do not think that this debate should be held here in the Assembly, although we naturally respect the fact that it would be desirable for a party such as the New Citizen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122111111	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122111120	Now we are in the Assembly Hall, the finest hall in the nation • here, where we decide things; here, where we can vote on things. And then we hear from a former governing party, the largest party in the opposition, that things will not be decided in this Chamber. This is a first reading of a motion for a resolution, and then the Left says that you can see yourself supporting this, but just not here because the setting is not the correct one. So I ask again: will it be the position of the Left if we then discuss it in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure that the Left will support a 2-percent reduction in group funding?
ParlaMint-DK_20191122111158	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122111201	I would like to give the undertaking that we would like to discuss the terms and conditions of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, but I do not know what we are getting at at this time. And I would just like to say that, frankly, it is not unusual to have a debate in a ministry that ends up in a legislative proposal. And if you're gonna change things, there's some form of it. So to say that the only place you can take this debate is in the Parliamentary Chamber, is convenient for New Citizens who get some attention and can send some signals and perhaps get some more votes. I have sympathy for that, but I also think it is fair to say that this issue is being discussed where they have always been discussed, and that is in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122111234	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122111237	Now we are new citizens, and the Left will also get used to the fact that New Citizens actually mean what we say. And we do not put anything forward in the Parliamentary Chamber unless it is something that we absolutely believe is necessary to highlight. And then I find it interesting that the Left believes that health, care and all sorts of other areas can be made more efficient by 2%, but when it comes to the politicians in here: no business, they must be freed. That is the signal that the Left is now sending, and that is what we are taking from here, namely that the Left is trying to wrap it up by saying: Well, if we can improve some other things and the dit and the date. This is a quite simple proposal... you'll be helping to increase efficiency by 2%. on group support funds? I hear the Left doesn't want to, but the rest of society has to stand up for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122111315	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122111319	It is a completely wrong and erroneous interpretation of what I said from the speaking chair of the Folketing. Anyway, the questioner is allowed to say things that are not right, but I just have to say that that is not what I said. We want to be involved in discussing these matters, but not in the Chamber, but in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. So the conclusion which the author has conveniently arrived at is not correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122111342	Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122111345	Thank you. What makes me take the floor is that Mr. Karsten Lauritzen says that this is about strengthening the parliament's muscles to the government. And we are very interested in this in the Enhedslisten, particularly because we have just had a debate on the Public Service Act, where the Left is not interested in the public being able to gain more control over the government and administration. But is that not correct, sir? Karsten Lauritzen, that this is not a question of strengthening Parliament's muscles, but of strengthening the muscles of the parties? So, if it's about strengthening Parliament's muscles to the government, isn't this money better spent on strengthening the committee secretariat we have here in the Folketing than they are spent on strengthening the Left as a party and also for that matter my own party?
ParlaMint-DK_20191122111437	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122111440	I think Mrs Lund's question illustrates why we should not discuss this here. It is the text that says, and if you adopt it, it is the text that applies, but it is a little more complicated. I think it would be extremely appropriate in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure to discuss whether it is the administration of the Parliament that should be strengthened; moreover, it has now been done whether it is the parties or whether it is the rights of individual Members. Something that puzzles me is that the Folketing would like to be a modern workplace, but continuing training is such a city in Russia. You can't do that. And I actually believe that I can get smarter also by taking some professional lessons, and I also think that Mrs Rosa Lund could be smarter than I am. But there is no possibility of that, so it is a relevant discussion to take. But we should not take it down here in the Chamber, we should take it in the Rules Committee. There you can also discuss who it is that needs to be strengthened or whether you have to implement this proposal or whether you might have to do something quite different.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122111544	Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122111548	I think so, sir. Karsten Lauritzen, that this highlights why it is important that we take this debate in the Parliamentary Chamber and not just in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. As far as I am concerned, these two things are not contradictory. Surely we can take the debate in both places, and I think it is important that we also take the debate here in Parliament, where the public can follow what we as parties mean. I think that is actually quite crucial. Then I just want to inform Mr. Karsten Lauritzen about what he probably already knows, that when you smoke out of the Danish Parliament and come up with a very lucrative post-marketing scheme, there is also the possibility of continuing training. You actually get a bag of money for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122111619	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122111622	But that doesn't make much sense at first. We should get smarter while we're in here. It's no good for us to get smarter when we're out. That's just my point: I think that's weird. Well, then there are some other things where it's very lucrative to be a member of parliament. We in the Left have said that we would like to take part in looking at them, i.e. whether they should be changed. And then I would like to make a proposal to all those who want things to take place in the Parliament: I would suggest that the government move the financial law negotiations in here. That would simply be nice, so we would all be able to keep up with what Enhedslisten says. I'm gonna say it a little funny, 'cause it doesn't work. There are some things that work in the Parliamentary Chamber, and then there are some things that work by meeting somewhere else. And then, if things are to be changed, you end up in the Assembly Hall.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122111658	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122111703	Thank you for the floor. Now this has become a debate on where to take what the rapporteur is putting forward here, where to discuss it here. This is a long-standing resolution. This has already been discussed in the media this summer. There has been ample opportunity from the Left to discuss the resolution in the same way as we have discussed the resolution with other parties. The left has even got seats out on the Ride track close to us, so we sit close to each other and also had the opportunity there. If it were the case that it was simply because it was not intended to discuss it here in the Chamber where the public can keep up, then there has been ample opportunity to discuss it in camera. That's not what you've wanted. Is this the way in which the Left normally works, or will it perhaps in future show a little more diligence if one really believes that this could be a good proposal, which should just be negotiated elsewhere?
ParlaMint-DK_20191122111803	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122111805	I would like to give the assurance here today that if Mrs Pernille Vermund wishes to invite me to coffee and discuss this proposal or any other proposal, I will be happy to meet her. I would not say that I am disappointed not to have received the invitation because I know that my group chairman and my party chairman have received the invitation, but I have not. So if we are going to continue talking about this proposal, I am happy to do so over a cup of coffee, and otherwise I think that the right place to take it up is in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122111836	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122111838	The fact is that I have been drinking coffee with the President of the Left, that is to say the President-in-Office of the Council, I did not do so with the previous one; we are not leaving it alone; it is not a discussion we are discussing here and there we have the opportunity to do so if we think that such a discussion, as we know, is going to take place elsewhere. It is not New Citizens who want it to be taken elsewhere. It is the Left who wants the debate, the discussion, the negotiations to take place elsewhere, and then we have the opportunity to take it up. So it is again a call to the Left that if you really want cooperation, it is a good idea to take it in time and not wait until you stand on the platform of the Folketing and refuse to take the discussion because the place is wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122111917	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122111919	Yes, and of course we'll take that signal down. We're happy to discuss this, including with New Citizens. But it is not a proposal that makes any huge difference. That's 2%. of 179 million kr. We can of course start the collaboration between the Left and New Citizens there, but I think there are other things where we can move more in Danish society. Of course we can discuss this, but there are other things too. We would like to come up and have a talk with all the parties in the Danish Parliament about this and other things, but we think this should be dealt with in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122111951	Thank you, sir. Karsten Lauritzen. There are no more brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122112001	Thank you. Yes, there is a big discussion about where to discuss matters. But now it is the case that, as a member of parliament, you have a unique opportunity to put forward the proposals you want, here in the Parliamentary Chamber, as long as they comply with the basic law, because we have signed them. Thank you to the new citizens for the proposal. In the Danish People's Party we also think it is quite reasonable that we look inward and streamline. We have also spoken in the past against the overall group funding, and it is also clear that when savings have been introduced by the Danish Parliament in many areas • 2%. In a number of areas we must also take the lead ourselves. And that is why it sends out the wrong signal if we do not. So I think that the debate that has been going on so far has been very exciting, because what you can do now tells many parties that you want to discuss it here is that you can agree on a report so that there will be more out of it than discussions. Those who have stood and said that they want to take a look at this can, of course, come together for a report and ensure that it is then discussed in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. In the Danish People's Party we can see ourselves in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122112124	There is a brief comment on Jeppe Bruus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122112135	Thank you. I always think it's legitimate to discuss this. But I also think that this is an expression of something else, namely that we should be very careful not to talk this profession down. After all, I myself have become a newly elected member of parliament, and unfortunately I have to say that, although everyone is discussing politicians, some of those who take the lead are sometimes us politicians themselves. I myself have worked in large organisations of interest and have had employees, and I have to say that the everyday life that meets someone as a member of parliament is not such that there is an abundance of resources and everything else. So I would really like to hear a little perspective on how narrow it should be. And why is it that, as a member of parliament, one should not be able to meet the surroundings to an extent which, as such, also qualifies one's work?
ParlaMint-DK_20191122112216	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122112221	Thank you very much for the question, which is a very good question. This isn't about talking ourselves down. I certainly agree that we should not, because we are pursuing a very, very large profession as parliamentary politicians. But it is clear that when you have to look inwards and see how you can streamline what you do in the day-to-day, of course we also have to do it in here. And it is not about talking down the professions of parliamentary politicians; I fully agree with that. Of course, there must also be resources for parliamentary politicians to be able to do their job. And yes, there must also be a proper remuneration and all those things, but that is a completely different discussion, one might say. After all, we are discussing this motion for a resolution as to whether it can be supported. And there I think it is quite reasonable that we should look inside and ask ourselves: what can we do better?
ParlaMint-DK_20191122112311	Jeppe Bruus, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122112315	I fully agree with that and I think it is entirely legitimate. So what I am asking is a little more fundamental, because that is also the picture that emerges in today's debate. When you say that, how much less is it supposed to be? Or is there a view that you as a parliamentarian should not have support and support? I think the new expert system that has been set up is very good. I think it is very sensible for Parliament to have the opportunity to draw on experts who qualify the work. This is one of the more recent measures that costs some more money. I think it's a really good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122112347	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122112349	Yes, there are a lot of things that are relevant. But then I have to say to the rapporteur that what we are discussing today is the proposal of New Citizens that we ourselves should make a 2% saving. on group support funds. The second is, of course, a completely different discussion that one could come and take another day, but right now it is this resolution that we are discussing.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122112413	We thank Mrs Karina Adsbøl, there are no more brief comments. And we move on to Mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122112426	There may be many good reasons for discussing the use of money in both parliament and government, and the Radical Left would be happy to discuss whether group funding is being used in a way that effectively strengthens the entire Folketing and its members in the work of matching the government and acting as a democratic control body towards the government. However, the discussion should not be reduced to just a small corner, which sounds good on the outside. For democracy costs money, and when you look at the armaments carried out by the former and the current government with, for example, the platform www.government.dk and other spin measures, then it is not time to weaken the parliamentary control of the government, which will be the consequence of the resolution. The proposers argue that when you impose such savings on others, you must be able to tolerate them yourself. We agree with that, but it is just saying that the Radical Left is also against green harvesting savings and seeks to combat them when it comes, for example, to health, education and culture. So the Radical Left cannot support the proposal we are debating here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122112551	Thank you, sir. Kristian Hegaard. I do not see any indications of short remarks, which is why we can move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122112612	I have just received a speech from our group chairman, Jacob Mark, who unfortunately cannot be here in the Chamber today. After all, everyone knows that there are negotiations on financial law, and that is why I have a speech which I should like to read out here. It says this: in SF, we believe that the group support scheme is important, and we also helped to allocate an additional amount for group support when we last changed the rules. We were because we believe that it is important for MEPs to be able to get professionally dressed and get legal and professional help in their daily work. Parliament's job is to control the government. The government apparatus has grown ever more professionally. Cases have become more and more frequent, and sometimes they have become more complicated and more actors wishing to hear their voices. The questions and ideas from our fellow citizens have also become more and more frequent, because it is easier to get in touch with the elected representatives. If MEPs are to have the opportunity to keep up with, do their work properly, control the government and have a fairly good chance of matching the knowledge that lies in the ministries, it is important that the parties' groups receive support for advice and expertise. That is why the SF does not support the green harvester's saving on group support, as proposed by the New Citizens; nor have we supported the green harvester's savings in the surrounding society. We think this is a stupid and unmanageable way of saving, and the time has not come to weaken the members of parliament and the parliamentary groups on the contrary. However, we are open to see whether we have arranged the group support in the right way. With the last changes, we continued with the allocation model, which means that the big parties win most on the distribution model, because much is given in relation to mandates. That is not necessarily fair, because there must also be economies of scale here: more members of parliament to lift and more advisors who can work together. You made the rules for how to spend the money more lenient. It is easier to spend money on communicating about the work of the parliamentary group, but if the rules have become too relaxed in a way that allows the money to be used almost to conduct an election campaign between the elections, we believe that we should narrow it down. In such a discussion we always like to discuss with New Citizens too whether there are places where you can spend the money better, and if so, we are happy to do so in the SF. However, to make a green harvester saving on the parties' ability to obtain advice and expertise in their work of controlling the government we think is a step in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122112856	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122112902	Now a lot of this is all about the fact that in 2016 they chose to give the parties 52 million. kr. more a year. These are some of the people we want to roll back from the New Citizens' Party. We believe that money can do more good elsewhere in society. Now I hear SF say: we would rather spend the money in here on politicians than we might spend the money on sosu assistants, nurses and other things. Because that's what makes you put 52 million. kr. more in here at Christiansborg, can't spend the money out there in society. So is it SF's view that it's better to paddle in here than to spend the money out on the basic core welfare?
ParlaMint-DK_20191122112942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122112948	I think that New Citizens' Basics have misunderstood that many of us MEPs, and the parties in this House, are also citizens' lawyers, and if we are to be able to help the citizens very well, including the sosu assistants, it requires that we have something to resist in relation to the ministries that have become very strong and that we also have the opportunity to go to the issues that have become more and more complicated. I get a lot of citizen visits, and I pick them up in different ways. I actually think it's worth it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122113016	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122113019	But it does, and New Citizens do not say that we should abolish it altogether. But SF, if we take the 2017 accounts, will still have 10 million. kr., and in the past you had 7 million. kr. So you have padded yourself in here remarkably. And when you polstrate yourself in here, you don't have the money to spend on basic core welfare. And when SF says they won't be willing to take this money back and over to another area, they say directly: No, the Folketing and we politicians in here are more important than the basic core welfare. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122113055	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122113059	In fact, I think that is a completely unreasonable and also very wrong view. SF is working to strengthen welfare, and we are also ready to set aside money for it. We find financing models that we probably • may disagree with New Citizens about. But we are working consistently to get minimum standards; we want a boost to care for the elderly; we want a whole lot of things in terms of core welfare. But in order for us to do so, we also need to have some backup so that we can be a strong and heavy party, which means that we need technical assistance and advice.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122113130	Mrs. Pernille Vermund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122113133	It is just that the money can only be spent once, and although it is small amounts of money in the eyes of politicians, it is not for ordinary people, but when we normally talk billions in here, I am completely in favour of the fact that it is smaller amounts • it is nevertheless the amount that has been increased. More money has been given to itself, more money to the groups, in the last parliamentary term than before. So the politicians have been further upholstered over a period when it has been said to the citizens and to the public system in general that there should now be savings, and that is why New Citizens are appealing to the savings that have been put down on our society and that, of course, they have created efficiency improvements. They also look at the support of the group and say that we should also be able to make this more effective ourselves. And then let us take the basic discussion on how the funds should be distributed, that is to say, set a 2% target, and then find out how we can organise group support most effectively in terms of guaranteeing democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122113239	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122113245	After all, it is to a large extent Mrs Pernille Vermund's friends on the right who have brought efficiency down on public welfare, and we have had a great deal of disagreement in the SF. We are working to strengthen public welfare and, in fact, we do not believe that it is incompatible with the possibility of getting proper conditions for our parliamentary work. I think that Mrs Pernille Vermund should bear in mind that we are a smaller party, and we must lift exactly the same thing as a party with 40 seats, and that therefore requires much more of a smaller party so to be the democratic counterweight.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122113318	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122113322	It is quite true that it is the bourgeois parties that have introduced the 2-percent saving. At the same time, however, while saying that there should be savings in the public sector, we have added more money to the groups, and then we just say that the more money that has been added makes us much more upholstered. They have asked for savings in one place and added to the politicians themselves. You couldn't take at least 2%. Of course we can get down to it, as everything else will still be very much money, and then have a discussion on how to distribute the funds, so that it also ensures that it is not just the major powers that are being taken into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122113403	Then we'll get an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122113407	The answer is no. We have not agreed with the green harvester saving on welfare. We want to do more for welfare. Nor do we think it is wise to introduce a green harvester saving on the support that the parties in the Folketing can get, but we are very willing to discuss whether it should follow the distribution of the mandate, because it is clear that large parties with already many muscles will experience this as a huge strengthening. However, for the SF, it is very important that we have the opportunity to counter the great apparatus that exists in the ministries and to be a citizen's lawyer.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122113441	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments and we will move on to Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122113450	Thank you and thank you to the new citizens for tabling this motion for a resolution. I work daily in here also with legal and foreign policy, and I have to say that this is the first time that I have agreed with New Citizens. I will start by revealing that we in the Enhedslist can support this resolution. I do not know whether it is because it is Friday, but at least thanks to New Citizens for putting forward the proposal. We can back it up and, of course, I would like to put a little more words on it. It is quite true that the public sector has been subject to 2-percent savings. I do not agree with the premise that it has brought about efficiency. But I think there would be something reasonable about us also putting that saving on ourselves, and then we could appropriately abolish it out in the rest of society, even if it would require funds from somewhere else. It is just to say that I do not think it is right that we should ask for culture, education, health and so on. about saving 2%. Every year and then we do not ask ourselves to do the same, and I do have the same attitude when it comes to retirement age: I do not think it is fair that we should give ourselves some lucrative pension conditions when we ask the Danes to do the opposite. So I think it would be good to put a 2-percent saving here, and I can also reveal that Enhedslisten voted against the agreement that was made on group funding because we did not think it was reasonable and that it was too much money that the parties allocated to themselves. Then I would also like to make a few comments on that with the muscles of the Folketing that we have had in the debate here. I therefore agree that it is important for the Folketing to be able to oppose the government apparatus or, at least, to bury itself in legislative proposals and that we have in here an official work that can match the official work that is in the ministries. But that is not what group funding is about. After all, the group funding is about money for the parties, and I think it would be good to put a 2-percent saving here and then instead spend the money either on something that we could agree on would be good outside the walls here, or perhaps we could actually also spend the money to strengthen the official work we have in this Parliament, which is our neutral joint office and which is doing exactly what Mr. Ole Birk Olesen mentioned earlier, thus digging into legislative proposals and which can also help write amendments, ask committee questions and section 20 questions to the government. I think that would be a much more democratic way and a much more sensible way of spending the money. I would therefore just like to say that we can support this resolution and that we look forward to further work on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122113735	There is a brief comment from Mrs Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122113741	It was just because I was wondering. For yesterday, the Enhedslisten would not support a motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Rogalla. Henrik Dahl. Politically, that resolution was agreed, but it was argued that it was because it was the Liberal Alliance that tabled it. And now we support a motion for a resolution from the New Citizens' Party. Then I just want to ask Enhedslisten if it was really just a bad excuse yesterday because you didn't know how to reject something that you actually agreed with. This is not, of course, linked to today's debate and what the rapporteur is saying today.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122113811	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122113815	I think that was an interesting question. I was not here yesterday in the debate in which the Liberal Alliance tabled a motion for a resolution, so I simply have no idea what this is about. But I certainly think that sounds like a strange argument. We have just had a debate about the Public Service Act, where Enhedslisten stands together with the Liberal Alliance and the Danish People's Party, who are not normally anyone else we agree with when it comes to economics when it comes to taxes when it comes to foreigners. There are many questions in which we disagree, but we would like to meet where we are I must be Mrs Mai Mercado's answer guilty. I simply have no idea what kind of debate was going on in here yesterday.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122113851	Mai Mercado, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122113855	Perhaps I should have explained that too, but time is sometimes scarce. It was a debate on the coupling rate, in which the Enhedslisten, in the context of the financial law negotiations, has been out saying that it will not help reduce the coupling rate for free schools to 71 per cent. And the rest of us have supported that; we think it is very good. When there is a resolution from the Liberal Alliance which says that it should be maintained at the current level, and the Enhedslisten is in agreement, and then the argument is used that it is because it is a motion for a resolution from the Liberal Alliance, then I just think that is what I actually came across as opposed to the fact that today we are warmly supporting a proposal from the New Citizens' Party, which must of course be said to be on the right.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122113931	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122113936	In relation to the resolution on the coupling rate, I think it is certainly a strange argument that the reason why we would not vote for it was that it was the Liberal Alliance that had put it forward. I think that the reason why we are not going to vote for it is that we have actually succeeded in eliminating the savings made in the free schools, which were planned, as has also been the case in the press. And when it comes to the Finance Act, it would be strange to vote in favour of it coming elsewhere as well. I think that would be the right argument. As I said, I have not followed the debate in the Chamber yesterday. But I think it is a strange argument to say that you will not vote in favour of something you agree with because it comes from a particular party. This is not something we usually do in the Enhedslisten, and I hope you have noticed that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122114015	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Vermund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122114019	Thank you. I just wanted to sign for us sitting on both the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs together that we agree on this matter. We were also in the previous case today about the Public Prosecutor's Act, and I really believe that this is one of the things that might unite the small parties on the right and left of the power parties, in other words the proposals here that we want to give both more openness to the people and strengthen democracy. Not strengthening democracy by simply praising politicians and parties more, but strengthening democracy from below, where the people really can feel it. Then there are all sorts of other places where we disagree deeply. That is absolutely correct; we are both in the field of foreign affairs, and we are also in the field of justice. But in this area, I believe that the battle will be between the two great powers, the Left and the Social Democrats, and then the other smaller parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122114115	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122114119	Thank you and thank Mrs Pernille Vermund for her comment. I believe that Mrs Pernille Vermund is quite right in saying that this is the way it is going to be. It will be a little smaller parties against the great so-called power parties, the Social Democrats and the Left. But that does not have to be the case, I would say to those who are sitting in this Chamber today from the Social Democrats and the Left. It doesn't have to be like that. In fact, I think it would suit you very, very well to help strengthen the muscles of the Folketing instead of the muscles of our own parties. It would be nice if it were something that all the parties in this room could support.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122114152	I sense the question is over. Thank you to the rapporteur and we will move on to Mrs Mai Mercado, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122114204	Thank you, President. New citizens have tabled a resolution to cut 2%. of the group support, and basically the Conservative People's Party understands the proposers' wish that politicians should taste their own medicine, so to speak. If you ask selected areas in the public sector to make them more efficient, then the parties must also make them more efficient. And I think that's something people can understand out there, too. However, at a time when the relationship between Parliament and government, and also between parties and government as institutions, is not the best and where the balance of power is likely to be upset, we see some challenges. And with a number of decisions, the government has put pressure on the well-known management model, and we therefore do not believe that there is any need to weaken the parties. But let me elaborate on two points. First, the Prime Minister made his special adviser a permanent member of the powerful Coordination Committee and also of the powerful Economic Committee. Here he seems to be acting on behalf of the Prime Minister, and by acting on both committees he is given more power than many resort ministers, who only appear on the two committees occasionally • the Deputy Prime Minister is called by some. Nevertheless, the parties of the Folketing cannot call him in consultation or in any other way hold him responsible for the decisions which he undoubtedly contributes to making. Secondly, the appointment of eight press leaders in the ministries, six of whom have a background in the Social Democratic movement, has called into question the full party neutrality of the official work. Everything's gone by the book, it's said from the Social Democratic Party. Yeah, but what book? Some say the party book. And when the Prime Minister does not want to come into consultation and explain the dispute over the neutrality of the office, despite the fact that a majority in the Danish Parliament has asked for it in this way, then it is just a few examples in the last few months after the government has joined, which are likely to upset that balance. And that means that we in the Conservative People's Party consider it important that the parties can act, and that also means that you can go out and get advice, for example. So, in that light, and with the two examples I have just mentioned, which have, after all, emerged in the last 4-5 months, and so we do not know what we have in store, we do not think that it is sensible to cut party support for the moment, in order to weaken the parties' ability to see the government in the cards.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122114435	There is a brief comment on Lars Boje Mathiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122114439	It is very significant that a conservative rapporteur uses most of his speech as rapporteur to talk about the present. This is about 52 million. kr., which was given extra in 2016, when Conservatives had to join government and then would only sit back with three parliamentarians, and this was not wanted by Conservatives. We wanted more Members to be admitted, and that means that at the same time there should be upholstery, and then there should be a payment to the other parties for that. It makes sense. When you can increase your presence in Parliament by 50%, payments must be made to the other parties, and the payment was then of 52 million. kr., which the parties should have to play with and profile themselves on. My question then is: how can Conservatives ask health, which is also an extremely complex area, and which is also becoming more complex year by year, to save 2%, when one thinks oneself that one's own area is apparently so special and so much more complex than even health that it should not have savings?
ParlaMint-DK_20191122114536	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122114539	In fact, I believe that it has been said by a great many different parties from up here that it is no use putting words in your mouth, distorting it or otherwise trying to make a presentation of things that is simply not right. It is not true that the rapporteur says that if we accept a 2-percent saving, we should also accept a 2-percent saving for group support. Well, it's not a real premise to go into this with. When the two-percent savings were made, it was decided to do so after a hard tightening because there was a challenge with the economy, which was a crisis. But right now we have a healthy economy, and that is also why we see that the two-percent saving is being phased out, and as such it has nothing to do with group support. Basically, deep down, I actually think that Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen will be able to agree that it is important that you as a Parliament and as a party can act as a watchdog.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122114642	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122114649	After all, the truth is that the previous government made 2-percent efficiency improvements in health, a key area for our society. Nevertheless, it is not felt that politicians should also stand for. We are not talking about removing all the support. We are talking about the fact that it is now the politicians' turn to take the lead and do exactly what they asked society to do. And for that we have a healthy economy: we are looking into an economic recession. Conservative rapporteurs have also said so in the past in this Chamber. We look into the dark times of the Danish economy, and perhaps it is time for us as politicians to take the lead in the fight to ensure that we have money for the basics of society.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122114722	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122114727	Then I do not understand why new citizens only come up with a two-percent proposal, because it has been said on 15 August that one could easily take and remove one-third of the group support. That's why it has to be assumed that when Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen and New Citizens would like everyone to taste the same medicine, they also take it themselves. I can now see that expert grants have been applied for, and so I assume that you would like the subsidy that others will also receive. So you can get on the moral horse, but you still want the money that rolls in. That's where I think action should follow words. That would actually mean opting out of that group support by 2%.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122114759	Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122114804	Thank you. I think that all this government recruitment is a little nonsense about this debate, and I also think that it overshadows what is essential. And that is what I really want to ask the Conservative rapporteur. Because now there is such a sign that the great powers are sitting here patting themselves and foaming the cream. From my perspective, therefore, the group support scheme actually helps to strengthen parliamentary work and hence parliamentary control over a government. And if anyone is in favour, then it is actually the small parliamentary groups, which everything else just has fewer members of parliament and have to lift the same workload as the large groups that have many members of parliament. And now that you are, and it is not to tease the Conservatives, but it is quite frankly said that you are a member of a party which has grown but which belongs to an intergroup, is it not true that the arrangement we have is actually about strengthening our parliament and parliamentary work, but also parliamentary control over government offices?
ParlaMint-DK_20191122114905	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122114910	Thank you for the question. Yes, and I do not see it as teasing either, because there is a very big difference between having six mandates and having 12 mandates. And when you have six mandates, you need advice from outside; you need qualified staff to qualify the political input because you are standing and in such a crazy hurry; you have an everyday life that offers a lot of priority every day because you simply cannot achieve it all. So I think there is something right in saying that for the small parties in particular, those who have few seats, it is important to have that group support.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122114938	Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122114944	Now it is difficult to predict, but now we have the power of government in the Social Democratic Party, and let us say that we were in the situation that we used that power to say to the Folketing: Now you will hear, now we are cutting the support of the group significantly, so that the small parties now have fewer resources, less expert help, worse service for members of parliament. Then you could have the idea that some would sit out there and think, "What is it they are doing with the whole name of power?" In fact, I think it is a pity that we are talking it down, because it is a matter for me of something very, very important, namely that we as a parliament, that we as Members of Parliament have an opportunity to look after our work on a qualified basis and, of course, that there is also the possibility of exercising parliamentary control over the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122115021	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122115025	It was not so much a question, but I very much agree that it is important that you are qualified for your work, that you can recruit qualified staff, that you can get expert assistance, so that you can also act as a watchdog in a solid way vis-à-vis the government. Now I just mentioned a few things that I have experienced helping to upset that balance, and in which we do not know whether the future means that that balance is further upset or whether we are getting into a changed administrative behavior. And that is why Conservatives at the moment are not in favour of making the 2-percent saving.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122115102	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122115106	I think it will appear in the debate as if the parties were not upholstered in 2016. The fact is that, while savings were being made in the public sector in all areas, it was said that we are now giving more money in group funding to the parties, and this was done in 2016 at a time when others were being asked to save. So that's kind of what we're just asking for you to save a little bit. And then you get into such a polemical discussion that it is the small parties that need it most. We are a small party; we are the second smallest party that has come one that is smaller but we are a small party, and we are talking about this as if the employees we have in the groups are the only employees who help us in here. Listen to this: There is an official apparatus which is extremely competent, which is extremely willing, which serves us as members of parliament day and night, I was about to say, and as we also heard from the Enhedslisten So there are plenty of employees who can help us. I think it's a little strange that you've been so willing to save in the public sector out there, but you're not willing to save in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122115218	Thank you. Then we'll get answers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122115222	We stand by the deal that was made. And there I would just like to call for a measure to be taken of the attitude of each one, i.e. walk the talk. And that is why I look forward to it, then, I hope that New Citizens will act in such a way that you take the lead in this and are prepared to renounce part of the group support funds, so that you can show that you too, as a small party, can manage without the extra money if you do not think you need it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122115246	Pernille Vermund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122115252	Now it is true that even if you are in favour of having lower taxes, it is not certain that you can simply dictate your own taxes and that is similar when you are in favour of saving in here. In order for us to be able to send the message to the citizens that we can of course save here, if we have to save out there, it is not a question of four people having to walk the talk, it is of course a question of us having to lift some tab to make sure that there is something unreasonable about you sitting in here choosing your own salaries, choosing your own pension conditions, and choosing your own group support funds, if only many people agree that the money is better spent here than among the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122115328	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122115331	That is where I think it is important, for example. If you look at a pay slip where you don't know what a cost supplement is, then at least it creates a distance. And I believe that we can help to minimize that distance. And we would very much like to go into the discussions on pay and pensions and the other things that lie there. We would also like to see the recommendations of the Pay Commission implemented, which is why we are very happy to enter into that discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122115404	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Sikandar Siddique, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122115413	Thank you for the floor. Unfortunately, our rapporteur in this area, Uffe Elbæk, could not be here, and I have therefore been given the task of announcing that unfortunately we do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122115436	Thank you. This did not give rise to any brief comments. That is why we move on to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122115442	Thank you for that and thank you for the motion for a resolution that we support. The Danish democracy, the Danish people's government, the public debate etc. is, of course, influenced by extremely many things. We have a government that proposes politics and justifies politics. We have a Parliament that says what it thinks about things. We have parties that say what they think about things. We have a press that writes about what others think and what the press thinks, and it investigates and asks questions. This whole ensemble together creates a democracy, a people's government of a certain quality, which in Denmark is much higher than in so many other countries, but which also in Denmark has its problems and its challenges and directions, which are not always positive. The parties often contribute to the fact that the people's rule does not function as well as it might have done, I think. That is why it is not right to say that if we only strengthen the parties with more money, then we will have better public governance and then we will have a better public debate. When I look at what the parties are using the group support funds for, I do not think I can see the ideal world, as Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen tells about. He tells us that it is used primarily for experts who can inform you about the substantive content of a particular legislation, so that you are properly dressed to be opposition to the executive, namely the government. That's not what I see. I see some parties who believe that the most important thing in the world for them is to get more votes, and they have the analysis that votes can be generated by whipping up popular moods, by putting the political opponent in a bad light, by propagandising, also sometimes by spreading untruths. When I look at the social democracy's efforts on the social media, which is one of the most recent things that has come to light, I do not see that the Social Democracy is using its means to inform the people of what is really happening; to go critically to power where it is necessary to go critically to power. There is a reason why I refer specifically to the Social Democracy. It is because it is the Social Democracy that gets the most out of this money, and it is the Social Democracy that spends the most money in my opinion to misinform the public about what is going on in politics. Wow, there's a lot of propaganda and the spread of untruths of social democracy on social media. When I think of the Social Democracy having the resources and manpower to do so, because the Social Democracy gets 40 million. kr. in group support, then, I am sorry that taxpayers have to pay for the Social Democracy providing so little participation in the public debate that the Social Democracy is doing with the many millions that the Social Democracy gets. I am aware that every party is sometimes going to do something that is wrong and misleading and so on, but I have the clear view that one party is much worse than everyone else, and that is the Social Democracy. This is particularly evident when social democracy is in opposition. After all, there is no limit to what one would say about the government that sits, and that has no reason whatsoever in what is really going on. In fact, I do not want to support that to the extent that it is happening today, so I would like to cut the group support funds. I do not think that group funding is being used for expert assistance. Most of the experts who are employed by the Social Democratic Party and in particular the larger parties are people who are experts in communication, the influence of the press with subtle tips that things are going on that are scandalous. If the press got involved, the press would find out that it is not at all scandalous, but that it is just some who are trying to tie them a story on their sleeve. The people who try to do so are paid with group subsidies from the Folketing. So I would very much like to save 2%. a year on it and also gladly more if it could be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122115915	There are a few brief comments. First it's Jeppe Bruus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122115919	Thank you. That was quite a svada. It has to be said that the voters are at least wise. After all, they have made the Liberal Alliance more efficient on 5 June quite considerably, and the Liberal Alliance has then taken up the message and made itself more efficient afterwards, so they are now three men. Now you can understand that they want to spend even less money. They've already paid something by being three men instead of four. So what is it actually that keeps the Liberal Alliance from completely refraining from using those group funds?
ParlaMint-DK_20191122115954	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122115956	After all, we cannot compete to tell the electorate that we are the best possible party, with other parties that accept all the money that comes if we say that we really do not want any money. We have to take what we can get in this context, because otherwise we are even worse compared to the rest of you. We are already much worse off. After all, we have less than one-tenth of the mandates of the Social Democratic Party, and we also have some complicated rules. • Much less money in advance to spread the good news to the Social Democratic Party, which spends the money on spreading misinformation about its political opponents. So, of course, we can't.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122120043	Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122120044	Now I'm confused. I don't really think the electoral rules are that complicated. The reason why the Liberal Alliance was greatly streamlined in the elections was, of course, that voters did not vote for the Liberal Alliance. If I can understand it that way, it is only the Social Democrats who are mismanaging these group funds. While I understand that the Liberal Alliance is a great witness to the truth of how they are to be used. So I think what we are hearing here from the Liberal Alliance is quite grotesque, and if you really think it's a waste of money, then you can stop using it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122120121	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122120122	I just want to say thank you to Jeppe Bruus for illustrating the point so brilliantly. Here Jeppe Bruus has the opportunity to answer a question from the country's foremost platform, and Mr. Jeppe Bruus spends most of his speaking time arguing that the Liberal Alliance went back in the elections and therefore today has fewer parliamentary mandates than before. Like it had something to do with it! Everyone knows that this has nothing to do with the matter. That's not what we're discussing. It's just such a bullshit thing, and that's the kind of thing Social democracy gets group support to deliver on Facebook and other social media, and it happens to an extent that is quite horrible and that is really bad for Danish democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122120158	Then it's mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122120200	Thank you. I would like to ask the Liberal Alliance rapporteur whether the Liberal Alliance voted for the extension of support back in 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122120213	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122120215	Yes, we did, because it was part of an agreement that we had to conclude as part of the formation of the government then and so on, but as the Social Democrats know, it is not all that we agree in every detail with what we agree with; we have to do so because it is part of a whole. And we did not agree with all of this, but it was the result of the Social Democrats and the Left joining forces that they wanted to do this, so the majority were already there, at least together with the Conservatives. So there wasn't really anything to do about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122120250	Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122120251	I have read the rapporteur's speech from 2016. What is the sort of mouth tasting on the part of the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur when it comes to voting in favour of this and now it comes with such a sword against social democracy? I think there must be a need for some self-examination here or for the rapporteur to have made a little clearer the position of just three years ago in his rapporteur's speech. But I would say that the battle fronts of the arena are drawn when it is said here that social democracy is a primary enemy. I would just like to ask: has the rapporteur made the effort to find out what the Social Democrats have been using their group support funds for? 'Cause I thought it sounded like things weren't under control here at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122120332	Okay, here we go. We need an answer now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122120334	Well, we can constantly look out on social media, how people employed in social democracy use social media both in the name of the party and in their own name to spread misleading information about the political process and what other parties mean. I mean, you were particularly active with it before you came into government, where it was about what the government of that time did, but that is something that we are continuing with today. And that's what the millions are spent on.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122120402	Then it's mr. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122120403	Thank you. I'm a little along the way in agreement with Mr. Knox. Mr Ole Birk Olesen in his criticism, including that of the current government and the governing party, but I think Mr. Ole Birk Olesen could have formulated himself a little nicer. I think we should keep a good and proper tone in here. I think it would have been better to get the point out by not being so bombastic in the rhetoric, but it's just a personal observation. I'd like to ask if Mr. Ole Birk Olesen does not agree that group funding is above all a great help to the smaller parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122120437	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122120438	No, I don't agree with that. First of all, group funding is a great help to those parties which receive a great many group funding; it is much less help to those parties which do not receive very many group funding, and that means that it is the large parties that benefit most from it here because they get the most money. As far as the tone of the debate is concerned, I am just saying what we can all see out there, and I also know that the Left has been very frustrated by the many times that Social Democracy on social media has spread information about the efforts of the Left, which was quite false. I don't think you should just say that. There's no reason to go around saying that you can't say that out loud because you're using the wrong tone.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122120519	Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122120520	Well, you have to say what you want, but I'm just saying that I would have formulated myself a little differently in order to get the message out, as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen wanted to get out. It's just that if you're more than four, you get 3.5 million. kr. If you are less than four, you are no longer a group. And I'd say if you get 3.5 million. kr. It is an enormous help to four people, and it is a help that must be there, because we want many parties. So I do not agree with Mr. Ole Birk Olesen in that party group support is completely indifferent to the small parties. It means a lot.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122120556	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122120557	I am not saying that we should abolish group support. I agree with the proposal that it should be cut by 2%. per year for a period. At the time the expert support was not yet available, we were satisfied with the basis at the time, but then the expert support was introduced, which we have heard increased the subsidy for, for example. Social democracy from 28-29 million. kr. EUR 40 million; This is the increase against which we were opposed, and we are happy to shave it completely away again.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122120625	Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122120626	Thank you. I would just like to express my thanks on behalf of the party for the support of the Liberal Alliance. It is good to hear that it is not only the large parties, but also small parties that recognise that, even if we are also affected, this money, which might have been better spent elsewhere, is better spent either by the Danes who have made the money or by other proposals that have been here today. Having said that, I would also like to point out, following on from the debate that was now going on, that there was a former Prime Minister who wrote the book 'The moment of liberation' and, from this point on, it seems as if that liberation has given more vitality to the Liberal Alliance than it has given to the former Prime Minister's own party, and it is only gratifying to witness.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122120717	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122120718	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122120726	I sense that there are no more brief remarks and that is why we thank Mr Beazley. Ole Birk Olesen. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122120730	Then we ended up on a merry note in the Parliamentary Chamber on a Friday, and I think it is appropriate to try to focus on what the proposal really contains. It can be seen on the screens that it is a 2-percent saving. So it is not a complete removal of all the group support funds; it is not that the parliamentary politicians should go to their knees and ask all sorts of others to pay. We're talking about a 2-percent saving. Today is a rainy Friday morning, and many may be looking forward to coming home for the weekend, but it is also a very special day for us in New Citizens, because it is today that we are dealing with the first motion for a resolution from many of us in the Danish Parliament. I also think it is appropriate to thank you for the good and respectful reception that we have received here in the Folketing from the other parties. We are, as the name says, New Citizens, and I understand that people should get to know me and also my colleagues from New Citizens, because what do we stand for? How do we work? Are we serious? I hope, six months after the elections, that it is actually clear that we are both serious and hard-working and that we are complying with agreements. And we are focused on the political and not classical Christiansborg personfnidderfnader. And last and most importantly, we say what we mean. We will do the same when it comes to this motion for a resolution. There is no teasing hidden in here, there is no desire to transform the Folketing into a new version of a bad reality show. We have made this proposal because we think it is the right thing to do. We believe that elected representatives should take the lead. We are potentially on the verge of a new economic recession and, as elected representatives, we must take the lead. We have a public sector in which politicians have asked many to run a little faster and make things a little better and a little more efficient. We, as elected representatives, must lead the way. There was an area that went free during the recent efficiency improvements. There was one area which was exempted from contributing to the money being able to go a little further than the Prime Minister said: we have to go a little further on the liter. There was one area where it didn't apply. Here, on the other hand, a huge injection of gasoline was given. It was in here in the Folketing. Politicians got 40%. more than 1%, not 2%, but 40%. More! Imagine it was given to another area of society. What outcry would it not have given? And let us be honest: the argument that the money was needed simply does not stand up. Yes, there is complexity in parliamentary work, but there are also other areas in the public sector. Take e.g. The hospital area. Is there anyone in this Chamber who dares to claim that there is no ever-increasing complexity in the area of health? At the same time, we recognise that we must do things better; we must do things smarter; we must do things more effectively. But why is that not the case with us politicians? I think it is a healthy basic premise that we are going to do things smarter and better, and therefore a 2-percent efficiency is also quite reasonable. Then there are parties asking: Well, now that New Citizens think you can remove a third, then go back to before the 2016 level, why not just suggest that we remove it immediately? In fact, we do not do so for the sake of the existing parties in the Folketing. For it is our view that this is where we can land, but we also recognise that there are parties that have hired people in positions and that must have time for this transformation and to come back again. That is why we are simply proposing that this should be a 2-percent annual increase in efficiency, in respect of the parties that have been sitting in here in the last period and padded themselves. So I look forward to the continued debate. We will stand firm on this, we will raise it, and we will simply do so because it is our view that it is the right thing to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122121220	Then we have brief comments, and that is Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen, who is in place now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122121227	Thank you to the rapporteur. I would just like to ask: what does New Citizens intend to do in order to act responsibly in relation to this? There is, of course, a set of rules and a possibility that New Citizens will be able to disclaim all or part of their group support.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122121249	We are a party in favour of fair and equal competition, and I hope that the Social Democrats do too. I understand that the Social Democratic Party would like all other parties to have less than the Social Democratic Party, so that they could thus find themselves in a much more advantageous position. As I hear the Social Democrats say, this is where the group funding is for the benefit of the small parties. We would therefore like to take part in looking at whether we should fully harmonise these group subsidies, so that all parties get exactly the same amount. We'd like to take a look at that. So if there is a proposal from the Social Democratic Party that could go in that direction, we would certainly like to standardise them.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122121324	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122121325	What is being said very clearly, and as the rapporteur has just said, is that New Citizens will show the way, will be serious, will be hard-working, will focus on politics and will say what they mean. You don't really mean what you say anyway. Because what is the conclusion, then, is that in New Citizens people people do not want to take a consequence on the basis of the rules that exist. New citizens collect the full amount that is possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122121355	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122121357	I do not know whether this is an expression of the fact that when you table a motion for a resolution on a 2-percent efficiency and saving that also affects you, you do not take the lead. It's doing just for Thor as it is for Loki. That's what we stand for in New Citizens. I would welcome it if the Social Democratic Party were to make a proposal to standardise these group support funds. We have to cover the same resorts. We have the same responsibility. So if it is a proposal and if there are new tones from the Social Democrats that we have to put on an equal footing and that we take these group funds where we now have 179 million. kr., and distribute them equally among all the parties of the Folketing, we must look at it. I don't think we in the New Citizen will be dismissive.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122121437	The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122121440	Thank you. Congratulations on the first motion for a resolution, for which I would like to acknowledge what the rapporteur is really also grateful for, that is to say the welcome in the Folketing. I certainly regard New Citizens as a serious and hardworking party. That is why I think that this debate is important not because of the 2%, but because of what is being said, because of what is being said, because of the motivation, and because of the fact that the parties are now sitting in here patting, and politicians are pawning, while everyone else has to save. That is what I would like to oppose. Because I believe that we are all doing a disservice by contributing to that picture by putting things up in that way. Firstly, I believe that this is wrong and, secondly, I believe that there is something very fundamental at stake that is actually about the fact that, when you are a large party that now also has the power of government, you also have an obligation to the people and to democracy to ensure that the parliament we have can function and exercise control. It is also a question of ensuring that there are actually resources for the individual MP and the individual parliamentary group to have the opportunity to work on a qualified and good basis. For me, that's what this is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122121553	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122121554	You have upholstered by 40%. Show me another place in the public sector where you have made the same supply of money. We're not talking 1, 2, 3%. in intake, but 40%. How can it be described as anything other than a massive upholstery? I would like to ask the Social Democrats whether they are going to table a motion for a resolution on the equivalence of group funding, because that would help the small parties. Could this be done by the Social Democratic Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20191122121628	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122121629	Now it is I who is asking questions, and what is just taking it away from what it is really about. When some adjustments have been made over the years, it is an indication that the world is not standing still. It shows that things are evolving, that the pressure on each member of parliament, what to read and the organisations of interest you meet is increasing. For during the same period, companies and interest groups become even more professional, employing more and more people to professionally meet politicians. If you simply take the view that politicians should not be able to match it, then everything should just stand completely still, but it is an expression of the fact that things are evolving.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122121709	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122121710	But it is not true that it has happened over time. This happened all at once in 2016 because the Social Democratic Party had to pay for a toilet deal, which was made because Conservatives had to have 50 percent. More in the Assembly Hall. That is what this is all about, and the parties should be paid for it. If the Social Democracy were to have three more into the Parliamentary Chamber, there was a price to pay, and that was more money for the parties. And we in the New Citizen do not think that is fair. It is not fair for the citizens who pay taxes out there for politicians to manage their money in that way. That is what happened in 2016, and we do not think that is fair, and now we have tabled a resolution trying to roll back some of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122121744	Thank you. The next brief remark is Mrs Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122121747	In fact, I have just one question because I just stumbled over something that the rapporteur said in his speech. Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen says that elected representatives should take the lead. And this is being said with strong voices and lightning in my eyes, and I really like that, and it also seems really, really credible. But then you just have to ask the simple question: why don't you take the lead? You say you should take the lead, but you don't take the lead. There it would be natural for you to choose in New Citizens to cut a third of the group support funds. And if you cannot do so because you have already done employment, as the rapporteur said just now, then you could take your own medicine and cut it by 2%.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122121828	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122121829	Well, thank you for your congratulations, and I can assure the rapporteur that I absolutely mean what I am saying. And when it comes to taking the lead, I do not see a better way than to table a motion for a resolution in this country's most beautiful and most important assembly, which goes in that direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122121859	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122121901	Thank you for your answers, but these are words. I think that if you look up about wanting to come in here and change the world, you have to put action behind those words, and there is no action behind those words, because you say yes, thank you to the whole group support, the expert grant. In addition, the expert grant has been applied for, which the chairman has at least signed for himself. So if action is to follow words, it must be natural that at least at some point you decide that you do not want the whole group support.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122121935	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122121936	I think it's a bit nasty that Conservatives are calling it just words. This is a resolution on 2-percent efficiency. It was also just words when the health system was asked to save by 2%.? Or when you asked nursing homes and many other parts of society to do so, were they just words? No, it had a consequence, all the way from where the citizens are. That it is just words to table a motion for a resolution on a 2-percent efficiency, I do not think they agree with the health services.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122122005	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122122022	The debate is open. And the first one on the platform is the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mrs Mette Gjerskov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122122054	Thank you, President. We Social Democrats went to the elections on green transition. Now we are delivering and we are asking all citizens to help. We're all gonna have to recycle our carry bags. I know that many people have already taken recycling for themselves. I can see that when I'm out shopping, but we have to bring the last of the people, and not least the last of the shops. I experienced it myself yesterday. I was at a supermarket, I was going to buy a hair shampoo, and before I could say anything, this friendly man had put the hair shampoo in a bag I could get. Of course, I said just as kindly that I didn't need that bag because I brought my own net. But it's just something that happens automatically in everyday life, and you might not think about it. It has to be over. Now a bag must cost 4 kroner, at least. And it's going to happen in every store, not just in supermarkets. Then we also ban the use of these thin crackers, as we call them, with handles. You know them from when you get pizza, I think. The bags are simply not suitable for reuse, so out with them. So today's a good day. We deliver at the UN's sustainable world goals. We are taking another step towards a greener Denmark, a more sustainable Denmark. So I'm happy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122122258	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's report to the rapporteur, Mrs Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122122320	Thank you. Today we are addressing the first reading of L 63, which prohibits the free delivery of carrier bags with handles, regardless of their material and size. The aim is to promote the recycling of carrier bags. The Left fully supports the ambition that we should limit the consumption of all types of carrier bags and provide much more incentives to recycle. In the previous government's plastic action plan "Plastic without spilling" from December 2018, the Left proposed that a ban be imposed on the free delivery of carrier bags with handle. Of course, we stand by this and, as we can see, the draft law builds on some of the proposals previously put forward by the Left. For the Left, the fight against plastic waste in nature is a major priority, and it is important for us that the products that are developed are more sustainable and recyclable. In this way, we will get rid of our over-consumption and we will avoid any further harm to the environment. When products are recycled more, yes, we produce less waste, and in the second place we can reduce resource consumption. I think most of us can see that this is good: good for nature, good for the environment and good for the climate. The proposal prohibits the supply of carrier bags free of charge. This is good because it makes us recycle more. It is also good that it applies to carrier bags of all types of material and not just plastic. Alternative materials can have much greater climate impact. For example, a textile bag can be a worse alternative than a plastic bag, environmentally speaking. That is why we also welcome the fact that the proposal does not at the same time aim to increase the plastic bag tax, but rather to ensure that all types of carrier bags are not released free of charge. The main thing is that we are producing less waste and thus getting rid of our growing consumption, which is so important in this sustainable transition. The bill also aims to ban completely the use of thin plastic bags with a wall thickness of less than 30 microns, whether or not there is a handle. We think this is sensible because the plastic bags are often only used once. We have listened that, on the other hand, it will not be better for sustainable conversion if we ban the completely thin plastic bags of less than 15 microns. These are the ones we use when, for example, we buy fruit and vegetables in bulk in the supermarkets. We are listening to the fact that those plastic bags are important for hygiene reasons and play an essential role in avoiding food waste. I would like to mention that the draft law is an expiry of the EU's lightweight plastic carrier bag directive. I know that it is not the most verbal name on earth and, in addition, the bill also builds on parts of the so-called packaging directive. We note that Denmark already complies with the lightweight plastic carrier bag directive through the packaging tax. As always, we in the Left are very aware that we are not over-implementing EU legislation or making ourselves unnecessarily inferior to other EU countries. That is why we would like to see our relationship with EU law clarified in greater detail in the work of the committee. Finally, we attach great importance to the very far-reaching price at the Minister's disposal. This is apparent from the draft law: the bill does not fix a minimum price for carrier bags, but provides for a legal basis for the Minister to lay down the relevant provisions. We think that legal basis is very open. Does this mean that the Minister will now have a direct influence on the pricing of companies' products, that the Minister may, for example, require a company selling carry bags with handles to double the price they have set themselves? Does the Minister have any expectations of the minimum wage on carry bags with handles? And if so, what is that expectation? We would also like to see this clarified in the work of the committee so that we can clarify quite specifically how much influence the Minister has on giving himself in relation to pricing. I'll end where I started. As I began with, the Left fully supports the ambition that we should limit the consumption of carrier bags. We need to be much better able to recycle in Denmark, and in this context we would like the government to be more ambitious. Last year, the government at that time made a plastic action plan with a number of good initiatives on how to promote more circular economy and recycle more. We would have liked to have done away with the way we deal with waste and got one-way sorting and collection. We would like the government to take the initiative on this, and this could be done appropriately in line with the good intentions of this bill. We look forward to the work of the committee and we will proceed positively with the work on the legislative proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122122811	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. We move on in the rapporteur's line to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122122828	Thank you. Here we are with L 63, a bill that will impose a ban on free delivery of carry bags. Generally speaking, we in the Danish People's Party are not a party that wants a ban on this or that, but in this case it actually makes sense. The growing unnecessary consumption of plastic and the growing production of plastic waste, as well as the contamination of plastics by nature and the environment, must be brought to an end. We consumers need to recycle our plastic bags to a greater extent and avoid using carry bags that can hardly be reused. By reusing or delivering for recycling, we secure the value for as long as possible and less waste is produced. This reduces resource consumption and waste volumes. It is proposed that the ban applies to all carrier bags with handles regardless of material and size and not just plastic carrier bags. This is because carrier bags in materials other than plastic are not necessarily better environmentally in a lifetime for the product. It is positive that this proposal not only leads a battle against plastic, but a struggle to use plastic in a sustainable way. The Danish People's Party can therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122122936	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line. This is the Radical Left rapporteur, Mrs Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122122945	Thank you. We also very much welcome the proposal. Plastic bags have long been a very strong symbol in the debate on plastic waste. I think it has made a great impression on all of us to see these pictures of large plastic islands in gardens or rivers, where you can barely see the water for just plastic, or these dumps in third world countries where the bags just pile up and where you don't really know what the plan is for them. At home, the bags do not end up in nature, at least not so often in our own nature; on the other hand, some of our plastic waste ends up in poor third world countries, while others are simply burned. And both are bad. It is bad to export its waste to other countries, it is bad to burn resources that could be recycled. But this is not just about plastic either, because it is not the plastic in itself that is the problem. It's not the bag that's the problem either. The problem is our general purchase and throw away culture, or as you could say here: get free and throw away culture. It's about overuse, it's about recycling. That is why we are also pleased that the proposal is broader than just plastic bags, because it might as well be fabric bags that are only used a few times, and then it is even worse than a plastic bag, and it could also apply to all sorts of other things. And that is really the important point here today, namely that even if we use 400 million bags a year in Denmark it is also very many, I think it is 70 per. Dane, the bags are still only a small part of the major waste problem. But it is something that is very much in our everyday lives, and that is why it is perhaps here too that we can create the behavioural change that can produce even greater results when we look at the major waste problem and quantity. It's about getting used to each other and ourselves in general not just throwing away, but thinking about a second time when we leave home... bring a bag or whatever it might be. That is why we see this as a small but important step towards circular economy, towards overuse and towards recycling. And that is why we very much welcome it and look forward very much to the future work and to the debate on Denmark as a country in which we have circular economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122123210	There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur of the Radicals. We move on to Mr. Carl Valentin of the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122123219	Thank you. It's nice to stand here and deal with this bill today. Banning the free delivery of carrier bags and thin plastic bags is not just something the government just thought was a good idea, because it is a bill that ensures that Denmark finally lives up to the plastic directive that was adopted in the EU back in 2015 with SF's own Margrete Auken as rapporteur. So first of all, the shot to her. It is absolutely necessary to ensure that the consumption of plastic bags falls if Denmark is to comply with the plastic directive. It is good that we are now getting started with a new green majority. The European Union has already decided long ago to set either a ceiling on how many plastic bags can be used per year. people in the Member States, or to stop handing over free plastic carrier bags, thin as thick. Many countries have already put a price on all bags with excellent effect. A good example is Ireland, where the consumption of thin crack bags of approx. Three months fell by 90 percent. After the introduction of consumer payments. We come much later on here than many other EU countries, but better late than never. The big winner is obviously nature, but this is also a really good thing for the business that doesn't have to hand over bags for free and instead makes money from the ones they sell. The state also saves by not collecting all the bags when flapping around on the streets and in ditches and in nature. That is why, of course, the Socialist People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122123354	Thank you. There is one brief comment. Mrs. Mette Abildgaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122123358	Thank you. I just have a very clear question. It may be that I am the only one who is a little dull on Friday dinner, but as Mrs Bjerre explained, we are living up to the EU requirements that are already today, so I do not quite understand this message of saying shots to Margrete Auken and that we are now finally meeting our EU commitments when it says very, very clearly in the legislative notes that we have done so without these measures.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122123425	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122123426	Well, there are some very clear comments in what the European Union has adopted: that countries must do what they can to limit their use of plastic bags, and that is also what we are doing with the legislation here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122123439	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122123440	It also says very, very clearly in that note that we are, among other things, in fact. has done so by having a plastic tax, so would the rapporteur not just acknowledge that we are actually fulfilling our obligations regardless of Margrete Auken's efforts?
ParlaMint-DK_20191122123453	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122123454	It depends on how you see the commitments. So, if you look at the 2015 adoption in such a legal way and ask if we have broken the law in the last 3 years, the answer is no, we do not, but there are some clear intentions in the proposal that oblige countries to do what they can to limit their consumption of plastic. And I believe that what the European Union has adopted in relation to this issue has had a major impact on the policy being pursued in Denmark now, but also in a lot of other EU countries, because it has pushed us to go further on this agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122123525	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we will move on to the Enhedslisten rapporteur, Mrs Mai Villadsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122123534	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. After all, we're going to have to do this huge plastic operation here in Denmark. Because it is the case that despairingly much plastic ends up in nature, where it pollutes. It ends in the stomach of animals. And the production itself, and sometimes the burning of plastic, puts a strain on our CO2 which is why we must act politically. We need to get away from a farm and throw away culture. In the Enhedslisten we therefore see this bill as a small step along the way. The legislative proposal, as has been made clear today, means a ban on the supply of free carry bags and bans the thin plastic carrier bags that cannot be reused. That's good. In these years we actually see how the retail trade is doing more and more to limit this and recycle more and more plastic. Coop Danmark is in the process of replacing the packaging of 4,000 products for more recyclable materials. Føtex will stop selling disposable plastics before New Year's, as far as I can understand, and Netto has made attempts with pledges on carrier bags and has committed to targets for more sustainable use and recycling of plastics. And then H&M is already underway and is starting to take money for plastic carrier bags. So they've started what this bill means. It is gratifying that the industry takes that responsibility. The recycling and redesign of products with built-in producer responsibility must be fully screwed up, and we must of course reduce our plastic consumption significantly in Denmark. In the Enhedslisten, we very much hope that the new green government will help to deliver a new plastic trade plan that, in the most ambitious way, supports it with objectives, demands and legislation, that we go in a greener direction. In fact, we believe that the scale of the problem is such that we should have a genuine plastic law in Denmark with reduction targets both for nature and for climate reasons. So I will conclude by saying that we in the Enhedslist support the bill and we look forward to the government, hopefully soon, calling for negotiations on a plastic trade plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122123815	There are no brief comments, so we thank the Enhedslisten rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Abildgaard from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122123824	Thank you. In fact, I think it is a very good legislative proposal that we are discussing in the Chamber today, and it is worthwhile to welcome whatever government has put it forward. I think Mrs Bjerre from the Left explained very well the various elements of this bill. The rapporteur welcomed what we call technology neutrality, and here it must be material neutrality, and I would really like to share that satisfaction, because it is very good that this bill addresses the over-consumption that exists and not specific types of material. Because, as I also think the comments on the bill are very, very well explained, there are other types of material than plastics that are at least as harmful to our environment and our climate. So it is really, really fine that we focus here on the over-consumption, the unnecessary consumption that is, and not necessarily on one material rather than the other. Then this is also a really interesting example of how we politicians in many ways on the green agenda are lagging behind the Danish companies. They are in addition to the steppes, also in relation to reducing their plastic consumption, as Mrs Mai Villadsen also explained very well in her speech. I wondered myself the first time I stood in an H&M and was suddenly asked to pay for a bag, but I was delighted about it. In 2018, this was introduced by the fact that they had to pay for their bags, in cooperation with the WWF, which then received funds directly from them. I asked the clerk: How do people react in general, so what is people's reaction to this, that they suddenly demand money for something that used to be free? And she said, People love it. People think it is positive; that is, people have respect for the fact that if you are to have a material, you are also paying for it and that you are forced to consider once with yourself: is it a good or a bad decision? But it is clear that it also requires that the bag does not cost the white out of its eyes, because then nobody is happy to pay for it. But the Danes have a responsibility to reduce their own plastic consumption, which is why I believe that most Danes will accept this bill. The hearing answers are asked about how to define a carry bag. I have some doubts as to whether the consultation note responds to that. And the answer was raised again when we discussed it at our group meeting. For example, you can imagine a store like JYSK, which sells lots of duvets and pillows that fill a little, and there they do not have carry bags with handles, but plastic bags without handles, which you like to carry in your arms. Can they be handed over free of charge in the future? Well, it's still gone a plastic bag you hand over, but there's no handle on it. I am not asking to be polemical, I am asking, because I am actually in doubt, frankly, whether such a bag will fall within the scope of the legislative proposal we are discussing here. Danish Occupations indicate in their consultation answer that they think that a price is around DKK 2,50-4. will be a fair level. I share that view, but I also have a small concern about this very broad legal basis, which is in relation to setting the level. But we'll have to hear that from the Minister a little later. I also think it is true, as the Danish Industry points out, that there are other and larger measures we can do, but that does not justify not taking any of the low-hanging fruits that are here, for example. Let us look as soon as possible at how to standardise our waste collection in the municipalities, which is a huge challenge in relation to the whole plastic area. I think it's obvious to look at that. In conclusion, I must also admit that, although I think this is a very good legislative proposal in many ways, it is not a legislative proposal in which we should not take any fundamental considerations into account in the sense that this is a pretext for Danish companies, where we would basically prefer to stay out of it politically. Because I think it is cross-border to go in and have an opinion on what to hand over for free in shops. Let's try to put it into the extreme. Let us say that it is a health debate that is in the Chamber one day, where there is a focus on making children and young people eat less sugar. And let us say that a proposal came up that you can no longer have free candy on the counter, which you can then go to stores because it is unnecessarily tempting. I would never have been able to legislate against this, because there must be a limit. But it's just to acknowledge that there are also some fundamental considerations when we go in and make this kind of regulation. The fundamental considerations have also been considered in our party, but we have come to the conclusion that the consideration of reducing this unnecessary overuse of a wide range of materials, not just plastic, justifies this initiative. So we support the bill and look forward to discussing it further in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122124325	Thank you. There are no brief comments. I would like to thank the rapporteur of the Conservatives and welcome the rapporteur of the Alternative, who is Mr Conservatives. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122124337	I have a little prayer: when you shop, leave the bag green. So what's green? There is only one answer: the green bag is the one you already have. It's the text of an election video that we've been doing together with Jesper Jokeren and Szhirley from the Gale Pose during the election campaign. And our message was very simple and very clear: we have many bags in circulation, fabric bags, plastic bags, corn bags we have so many bags that we don't have to produce new ones. Let's recycle the bags we have. And when we don't have any more bags, we can think about what we're gonna have of alternatives. So on behalf of Jesper Jokeren, Szhirley and myself, I would like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for making this proposal. Unfortunately, our rapporteur, Mrs Susanne Zimmer, who has also been very concerned about microplastics during the election campaign, could not be here. However, the alternative is a strong supporter of a ban on the free delivery of carrier bags and the handing over of thin plastic carrier bags, the so-called crackers bags. It is important that the ban covers all carrier bags regardless of material and size. The current plastic bag consumption should not simply be replaced by the consumption of paper and fabric bags. We welcome the fact that the draft law provides for the fixing of a minimum price for carrier bags. The price must be significant so that it has a real effect on consumption. We agree with DN that the proceeds should be used for investments in the management of plastic waste and conversion to circular economy. These are important issues raised by green organisations in the consultation responses. However, we are critical of the fact that very thin plastic bags without handles are exempt from the ban. There are studies on the consumption of these bags by Danes, for example. regarding food waste and/or hygiene supporting this choice? We believe that these bags are primarily used to carry 10 pieces. the fruit or a meat tray that has already been packed, then the bag is discarded and the goods are placed in a dish or put in the refrigerator. In view of this, the temporary storage function of plastic bags is therefore of no real importance in relation to either food waste or hygiene. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122124616	Thank you for that to the Alternative's rapporteur. Sorry, there was just one brief remark from Mrs Mette Abildgaard that I had missed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122124629	It's okay. Thank you for the song to the rapporteur, it was festive. I'm gonna ask you a few questions about these thin bags. I can easily follow the desire to get them away too, but I just don't see how it could be done. For example, how to transport peas or potatoes or other things that you buy in bulk, home in a way that you can see, for example. is it not likely that the soil will come to other products? How can this be done in a low-practical way? The same applies, for example, if you have bought fish or anything else, where there may be liquid at, and where the bag may have a quite significant effect not to get it beyond the rest of your goods. So my question is: how can this be done in a low-practical way?
ParlaMint-DK_20191122124722	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122124723	Thank you for the question. That is a very relevant question. I think it will be affordable to find answers to those questions, and I am sure that in our further consideration of both this proposal and the whole fight to move towards a more climate-friendly society, we will find answers to the questions you ask.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122124749	As Mrs Mette Abildgaard puts it. Yeah, here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122124750	Fair enough. I did not really sense an answer, but a recognition that this is a problem we need to clarify. It may be that we should try to ask the Minister a little bit about it, perhaps during the committee procedure, i.e. what there is of knowledge in this area of experiments or other things that can inspire us. I just do not think we are ready to say that it should not be an option today when we do not have an alternative or have the solutions ready.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122124816	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122124816-2	I can see the dilemmas raised by the rapporteur with the questions, but, as I said, we look forward to further work, and I wonder if we will not overcome the problems raised. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122124830	There is one more brief comment, and it is from Mr. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122124834	Thank you for the floor. It's great to hear rhymes from Parliament's platform, so I would just like to hear the rapporteur if he recognises that there were other candidates in the parliamentary election campaign who also did some great rap music that highlighted the climate crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122124852	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122124854	It was definitely there. And Mr. Carl Valentin also delivered a rap text on climate and many other topics that were really fantastic. This is something I clearly recognise from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122124908	Thank you. With the competition for electoral videos, the alternative rapporteur has finished his part of it, and we move on to the rapporteur's report. Peter Seier Christensen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122124924	Thank you for the floor. Plastic bags • plastic bags with handle, plastic bags without handle, thick plastic bags, thin plastic bags. Today, Parliament is discussing a bill on plastic bags. The bill forbids the free delivery of plastic bags with handles. In addition, the supply of thin plastic bags under 30 microns is prohibited. However, plastic carrier bags under 15 min without handle are exempt from the bill. Why is the Folketing spending time on that? Is there not more serious problems to be dealt with? The Prime Minister said in connection with the launch of the bill back in August: "There is now so much plastic in the ocean that it is equivalent to the fact that every minute around the clock a whole plastic truck is thrown directly into our sea. For me, plastic pollution has become the symbol of a world population that doesn't fit properly on its globe. Therefore, Denmark must prohibit free plastic bags. It's symbol politics of the worst drawer. The EU has a lightweight plastic carrier bag directive, which has also been mentioned earlier, and it already meets Denmark, so there is no requirement that Denmark needs to tighten the rules. New citizens recognise that there are major problems with plastic pollution in the seas and that there should be a focus on the production of plastic waste and its discharge into the environment. But it is not the Danish consumers who throw their plastic bags in the sea. We know that a very large part of the plastic in the oceans comes from ten rivers, but they are not Danish and they are not European either. I have not been able to find a figure of how much plastic in the oceans is due to the Danes throwing plastic bags or other plastic at all in nature, which is undoubtedly quite insignificant. If there are problems with waste management in the waste sector, that is where action should be taken. After all, Danish consumers are responsible and discard their used plastic bags together with their waste. Plastic is becoming a bad word. It seems like just something's plastic, it's a bad thing. This is an overly simplistic approach, and I do not think that politicians have thought it all the way. Many products need to be packed in order to transport and store them, and plastic is very much used here. We need to get the sense of proportion into the environmental debate. How much of the plastic pollution in the oceans is due to plastic bags or other plastic waste being thrown into the wild in Denmark? I would like to put a question to the Minister about this in connection with the work of the committee. The draft law does not set a minimum price for carrier bags, but provides a legal basis for the Minister to lay down provisions for this purpose. Thus, the bill lays down that plastic bags can become a money machine if there is no control over what the minister can fix the price for. Let it now be up to consumers to decide which plastic bags they want to use. With reference to these comments, New Citizens cannot support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122125237	There are brief comments. The first is from Mrs Mette Abildgaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122125241	Maybe I'm just wondering if it's the same bill we're discussing. For the rapporteur continues to talk about the fact that we are now introducing a ban on the supply of plastic bags with handles. And that is precisely what we are several people who, in our rapporteur's speeches, have spent time emphasising, in other words, that it applies to all types of material and not specifically to plastic. So I just need to make sure it's the same thing we're talking about. Then perhaps I would just like to hear where it is that the rapporteur is seeing that in this bill or in the legislative notes it says that this is being done to reduce plastic in the oceans of the world. I do not see this as an argument in the legislative notes and the text from the Ministry. On the contrary, it says that it is a matter of reducing the use of resources when you make it here, whether they are cotton bags, because it uses huge amounts of water, or whether it is plastic bags where you use oil. So where is it that the rapporteur sees plastic in the sea in the bill itself?
ParlaMint-DK_20191122125339	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122125340	I am fully aware of what the draft law says, and that is the same bill we are looking at. When I refer to plastic pollution in the oceans, I do so precisely on the grounds given by our Prime Minister when it was first launched that this bill would be brought forward. That is why I think it is relevant to deal with it too. I am well aware that this is not specifically mentioned in the draft law. But I still think it's relevant.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122125406	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122125408	In fact, I agree with the rapporteur so far that there must be a proper way of talking about this, in that we must be completely honest that this initiative is not aimed at preventing plastic in the oceans. Because Danish plastic has a very, very small role to play. But that is why it is possible to do it here for the environmental considerations that lie in the actual production of the packaging. When you look at the environmental impact assessment of the bill, it is very, very clear that this is considered to have a positive effect. Does the rapporteur not recognize this as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20191122125439	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122125440	That is quite possible, and I would really like to have it quantified too, so it might be that we should ask some questions in the legislative work on it. What does it mean for Denmark and the climate and the environment, and what else can we do against banning free plastic bags? I think it will be very, very small numbers we are talking about. But I certainly think it would be appropriate to have some figures put on.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122125507	Thank you. And the next brief remark is from Mrs Mai Villadsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122125512	Thank you. The rapporteur calls the bill symbolic policy and says that instead we should deal with the plastic that ends up in the oceans. I do not think this proposal is symbolic policy, but I agree that we should deal with the plastics in the oceans of the world. In this context, however, I would just like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not think that Danish waste actually sometimes ends up in Asia and thus enters the oceans of the world. In any case, I think there are a great many journalists who have been very good at mapping this out recently.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122125546	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122125546-2	Indeed, and I address this also in my speech, where I say that if there are problems with waste management, i.e. if in dealing with the waste which our consumers are trying to dispose of responsibly, there are some problems after it has been picked up that make it not handled responsibly any further down the joints, then of course I think that is where we should start. But that is not the responsibility of the Danish consumers, I would say. Well, they've done what they have to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122125621	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122125622	I certainly believe that Danish consumers have a responsibility for the amount of waste in Denmark, and also the retail trade. But then I would like to ask something else, because I kind of agree that we need to do a lot in relation to our waste management. But when, this summer, several farmers and hunters went out and said that the animals they see in the wild in Denmark have really, really large amounts of plastic in their stomachs, including plastic bags, does it not also concern the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20191122125651	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122125652	Yes, but I am quite convinced that it is not because Danish consumers have been throwing plastic into Danish nature. If you find plastic in birds or anything else, it is probably because they have eaten fish that have been in the sea, where there has been plastic that may have come from anywhere else.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122125710	Thank you. The next brief remark is Mrs Mette Gjerskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122125715	I am simply so surprised by the rapporteur's speech by New Citizens on this matter. New Citizens don't like recycling? Is New Citizens not in favour of sustainability? Well, this proposal is about us reusing our bags more. It's not enough just to say that we're just producing all those bags, and then we're just collecting them back in. No, we have to consume less, and we do that by recycling. What does New Citizens have against recycling? I just don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122125755	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122125756	It's not that hard to understand. We are not opposed to recycling or to people re-using their bags, but it must be something for which the people themselves decide, instead of having to legislate around bags with and without handles.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122125811	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122125813	So that means that it is quite fine that we are automatically just being handed bags, without thinking about it, and then we have a lot of bags that you just throw out, because you can't use them for anything afterwards. I think that is a very strange attitude. And I also think it's a strange attitude... that when there ends up plastic in the stomach of animals, it's probably something that comes from elsewhere. Well, we have mammals in Denmark that do not eat fish that have come from the oceans, and those mammals have got plastic in their stomachs here in Denmark because of the plastic waste.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122125850	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122125851	But as I say, the people must decide for themselves what they want. I am sure that it will also be responsible for the use of plastic bags. When the questioner says that people don't think about when they have to have a plastic bag or don't have a plastic bag, I'm not sure that's right. In other words, the people can also think without us politicians imposing it from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122125915	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122125918	Well, I was not surprised at the rapporteur's speech at all, because we have heard it so many times before in various panel debates. It is always the problem and the blame of the poor countries, but I think that is a little irresponsible. Because now that we know that our own plastic waste very often ends up in a completely different place than in Denmark • some years it is as much as 50 per cent. of our plastic waste being exported, perhaps first to Germany, then to a third country, New Citizens do not think that we have a share in the major global waste problem, which is currently proving to be huge plastic islands in the oceans, in the stomachs of animals, as large towers in landfills in third world countries, etc.? Are we completely without blame and responsibility for it, I think, very unhealthy waste economy that we are seeing right now?
ParlaMint-DK_20191122130011	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122130012	So, as I said, if waste management in Denmark does not act responsibly and makes sure that plastic bags are removed in the way that is now the right way to do it, then that is what we need to look at. After all, it is not a question of imposing it on consumers when they act responsibly in relation to the way they divorce their waste bags.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122130039	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122130040	I think that's such a funny answer, because sometimes when I hear New Citizens, they really come as the voice of the people. But here it is a true bureaucrat who speaks: if the handling is not quite in order, we have to look at it. Well, the thing is that there is a lot of our waste that ends up suddenly turning into someone else's problem out there, but it is then a problem you will not deal with at all, because the Danish consumers just need to be allowed to keep buying and throwing away. I'd like to hear if we just lift ourselves up over this buzzword, i.e. waste management, if New Citizens don't think it's a problem that our garbage ends up like big towers in landfills in third world countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122130119	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122130120	Now I think it is strange to call it bureaucratic, because I am talking about the fact that we are going to intervene where we in the new citizens, and probably many others too, think that is the most effective and most relevant place to take action. Do I find it a problem that Danish plastic ends up in large waste heaps in third world countries? Yes, of course I think so. And then we have to look at how we can avoid it, but it's not a question of the solution being that you can't hand over a free plastic bag with a handle.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122130147	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122130157	Thank you. As far as lightweight plastic bags are concerned, as several rapporteurs have already said, we are complying with the rules governing lightweight plastic bags within the European Union, and we are doing this by charging plastic with a charge, and that is very good. For plastic one can perceive as a negative externality, and the way in which it is wise to deal with negative externalities is to charge them with tax. It is more unbureaucratic than a competitive method. That is why the issue of charges in relation to negative externalities should be our approach to pollution in general and to other things that we do not want because it keeps bureaucracy down. Here we have a large number of derogations which require us to create a plastic bag or packaging carrier bureaucracy to deal with the whole situation. So, on the one hand, some of the proposal is an over-implementation of EU rules and, on the other hand, some of it is unnecessarily bureaucratic, so we cannot support the proposal. But I also believe that the proposal is about something else, because plastic is a symbol of everything that is in the way of the world. That is at least how I interpret Mrs Zenia Stampe's speech as rapporteur. Plastic is a symbol of some plastic islands in the oceans, which may exist and may not exist. At least I see both media articles that have one view and articles that have the other view. Plastic is a symbol of the large quantities of plastic being sent into the oceans of the world from two rivers in Africa and eight rivers in Asia, and as I heard the rapporteur's speech, plastic is also a symbol of consumerism in general, and I believe that this is very much what the draft law is all about, and I sense that the Radical Left, in this way, captures the mood of many of the parties supporting the bill very well. The Radical Left is, of course, a party that usually turns very, very strongly against symbolism policy, but here it seems that it is a little depends on what symbolism policy is a symbol of. Because if symbol policy is a symbol of the right thing, it is good enough. Now we have heard several lyrical stories from the platform, and it is therefore ironic that I have also prepared one, and it is a little older. It is from Johan Herman Wessel's poem about the baker and the blacksmith that ends: The baker wept godly when he was led away. This is because this story about the baker and the blacksmith is a terrible story about the symbolic political execution of a baker who has done nothing and thus also a warning against symbolism policy. So we do not support the bill. We believe that the issue of charging negative externalities is the way forward. It simply prevents an incredible amount of bureaucracy and, if properly organised, it also improves waste management. That is why we have taxes, mortgages, on bottle packaging, and it seems quite good. We'll see what's coming. In 2013, I published a book on e.g. fanaticism, and one of the craziest things I was able to think of back then six years ago was a packaging-free business. But sometimes reality surpasses fantasy, because even though it was the craziest thing I could possibly imagine six years ago, it sounds like it could be here before quite a long time has passed, and then reality is more crazy than my imagination. But we are not voting in favour, and thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122130652	There are a few brief comments. The first is from Mrs Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122130656	Thank you. Unfortunately, I have to start by conveying to the rapporteur the negative and sad news that he has simply lost today's lyrical competition with a bang. It was a good quote, it wasn't that, but it was just the performance that might have lagged a little over the previous song. I really have a very simple question for the rapporteur, because the rapporteur stresses that the way in which this is regulated, i.e. these negative externalities, is through taxation. I would just like to ask very briefly whether the rapporteur supports the Prime Minister's proposal to double the tax on plastic.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122130734	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122130735	We have nothing against taxes on negative externalities, but they have to be calculated in some factual way that I cannot take a position on. However, charging negative externalities is a good and unbureaucratic thing that we support as a principle.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122130755	The next brief remark is Mrs Mette Gjerskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122130758	Thank you. I do not understand how the rapporteur can say that this is bureaucratic. It's very simple. Stores must charge 4 kr. For a bag. Period. People are still standing with their wallet out and their dance cards. I do not know what is particularly bureaucratic in this. It is as if the rapporteur only thinks that we should worry about waste management, in other words that we are dealing with it properly. We don't just have to do that. We must also ensure that there is less waste. Does the rapporteur not agree that we should promote recycling so that we have less waste? And then, of course, we have to handle the garbage properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122130848	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122130849	Recycling is a good thing, but taxation of negative externalities also has this effect. There are, of course, some exemptions in relation to the provision of free packaging, and at the same time there are exemptions, so Mrs Gjerskov also knows very well that there must be a bureaucracy that can sort out what has a derogation, what has no derogation, applications for derogation, etc. etc. That is the case with exceptions. They create bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122130922	The questioner for his second remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122130924	I do not know what kind of bureaucratic derogations the rapporteur is talking about. It's not someone I found in this bill anyway. But perhaps the rapporteur can give us an answer to that. However, I would really like answers to my question: if the rapporteur does not agree that our task for a more sustainable world, for a more sustainable Denmark, is more recycling and less waste.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122130958	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122130959	Yes, but as I read the comments on the bill, it says that thin plastic carrier bags under 15 microns without handle are not proposed to be banned, as it is assessed and so on. etc. So there are some exceptions. It is clear, of course, that then account must also be taken of what falls under it and what does not fall under it. That's just how bureaucracy works.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122131027	Thank you, and the next brief remark is from Mrs Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122131032	It was a fun experience here, because I actually started sitting in my own thoughts a little bit, because I thought that now Mr. Henrik Dahl probably the same as New Citizens have said, and it was still another clue, sir. Henrik Dahl chose, but it also turned out to be a predictable clue, namely that something was wrong with the Radicals. I just forgot about that, sir. Henrik Dahl, a trained sociologist, always does a little sociological analysis of the rest of us. But what I would like to ask is: Henrik Dahl not that the large amounts of waste that we produce in Denmark and which we also export to other countries are a problem? And if so, what should we do to reduce them?
ParlaMint-DK_20191122131111	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122131112	Yes, but this is not what this bill is about, because these huge waste mountains that end up in Asia and that we have discussed several times have not been put together entirely by the materials mentioned in this bill. That's why you have to go, and I think that's a great idea... make another bill another time that's about it. I cannot tell you on a stand-by basis how large a fraction of the total amount of waste is made up of free delivery bags in Denmark. It may be some, but the bill isn't even about plastic bags. Then we're gonna have to talk about this, so let's get an independent bill and see how we handle this better.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122131159	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122131200	That was a classic answer. That's always the answer we get from the Liberal Alliance when we sit and discuss climate, because it always means so little: we're a small country, or it's just plastic bags, it doesn't matter. It is always the Chinese's fault, or some others', who have many more and bigger problems. That's the classic answer from the Liberal Alliance. But I would just like to ask: what are we going to do? What are we going to do to reduce the large amounts of waste that we produce in Denmark? It is not enough just to say that this is not good enough and that it is a small corner. What do you want? Does the Liberal Alliance have a policy in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20191122131234	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122131235	We're gonna have to be objective. The bill here is about delivering packaging free of charge. If the large quantities of Danish plastic waste in Asia consisted of 90 or 95 per cent of material previously supplied free of charge in the retail trade, this bill would be about the waste mountains in Asia, which we are sending out there. I just do not have the imagination to imagine that at an earlier stage in their life cycle, all the quantities of waste that the rapporteur is asking about have been distributed free of charge, and that is why the legislative proposal is not about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122131314	Thank you. The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122131317	As Mrs Mette Abildgaard did, I also have some bad news for the rapporteur, namely that there is already a packaging-free supermarket. On Nørrebro. It's called the MOV market, and there people bring their own buckets that they put things in. And I do not think that this is an expression of fanaticism that the rapporteur is talking about. It is simply an expression of people being extremely concerned about the climate and environmental crisis and wanting to do something for themselves, and I would like to cheaply do that at any time. I would say at all times that it may not always be the responsibility of the individual, but that it is also our responsibility as politicians. And that is why I want to hear from the rapporteur how he can think that it is symbolic policy to adopt a policy which now ensures less plastic waste and that fewer bags are used in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122131401	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122131402	What I said in my rapporteur's speech was that I noticed that the radical rapporteur explicitly used the word symbol and said that this legislation, which is in L 63, is a symbol because it deals with something that is a symbol, namely consumerism. So what I am referring to is the explicit use of the word symbol, which we have all recently heard Mrs Zenia Stampe use, and which Mr. Carl Valentin can also later find on the Danish Parliament's TV and hear used.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122131438	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122131439	After all, symbol politics characterises politics that do not really have any real effect, but just have to symbolise something. And here we are dealing with a legislative proposal which actually has a very real effect and will have an impact on Denmark's emissions, so I cannot fully understand the rapporteur's comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122131459	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122131500	Symbol policy is not just about proposals that have no effect; it is also about proposals that have a very small effect. What I am saying in the less polemical part of my speech is that we just wanted to see that we went along the path of charging negative externalities because there is less bureaucracy and registration in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122131520	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. There is no one else in the rapporteur's line, so we are giving the floor to the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122131533	Thank you. I would really like to start by thanking you for the incredibly broad support for this bill. I am very pleased, and I think it is a very clear signal that we can all feel that there is a green momentum in Denmark that the Danes want a more sustainable path. That's exactly what this bill is about, namely that we have to limit our consumption, that we have to get away from this use and throw away culture. And, of course, we do not have infinite resources at our disposal, which is why, of course, we should not use resources that we do not need to use. We must use resources wisely and we must preserve the value of products and materials as long as possible so that we produce as little waste as possible. That is in fact contrary to what we are doing in Denmark now, because if you look at us, we are actually really good at one particular thing, namely to throw out. We're good at scraping and discarding. In fact, we are so good at it that we have got a European record in producing waste: approx. 800 kg household-like waste per year population per year. I think it will surprise many Danes that this is the case, because we have a feeling that we are the green dox, but exactly in this area we are not actually. Therefore, this bill is a step on the way to reducing our waste amounts. The government proposes banning the supply of free carry bags in stores. When we are offered free carry bags, we may also accept more bags than is needed at least when these are handed out in Denmark approx. 445 million bags a year. It makes me think: okay, that just can't be right. So we have to think better, and I think this can help. The ban on the free delivery of carry bags applies, as has already been debated in the Chamber, all carry bags with handles regardless of material and size. So this does not just apply to plastic carrier bags. So it's generally about reducing our use of carrier bags. After all, we already pay in some places, and some people said that the industry is involved in this and that many have already started to charge a price for the bags. That's good, of course. A great deal has already happened in that account, and we need to do even more. That is why we are also proposing a ban on thin plastic carrier bags. These are also some of the points made by the Social Democrat rapporteur in connection with the issue of pizzerias and takeaway. It is a type of bag, which is typically only used once and then thrown out because they are so fragile and easily break. So we have to get away from them. The exception is then, and that is what the alternative was a little bit about, these completely thin bags, which are without handles and which are intended to still be used for hygiene reasons and in order to prevent food waste. We suggest that we should still be able to use them for those very reasons. Then you'll be asked for the price. It is true that the bill provides a legal basis for setting a minimum price for carrier bags, and I expect to set the minimum price at 4 DKK. It's a price that I think will help us think before we say yes to a new bag and then hopefully it changes the pattern, so that you actually have that bag with you from home and remember it before you have to get out of the door. As I said at the outset, we must end the whole one-time culture, use and throw away society. All products require resources, so we only need what we really need, and we need things over and over again. I see that the Danes are ready, I can fortunately hear that the parties are ready, at least most of them, and the companies are also ready. So I look forward to the continuation of the legislative process and look forward to our adoption of this bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122131949	There is a brief comment. Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122131952	I actually just want to hear the minister I also mentioned in my speech how to define a carry bag. It is quite fair for the Minister to say that she should just go home and chew over it, and then there must be a written answer. But I just wanted to know if the Minister already has an answer to that, because then we could save that process. How do we handle what is de facto carrier bags, but where the handle is removed for size reasons and you wear it in a different way?
ParlaMint-DK_20191122132018	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122132023	Thank you for the question. I think that is a good question. We ourselves have tried to make such a fairly clear overview of it, and I think that, for the sake of good order, we will of course send it over. But the question is specifically about those big, a little more garbage-like bags. In relation to the bill here, it will be depending on the thickness whether it will be prohibited or not prohibited. But I think that is one of the things that we should actually dig into in the further reading of the committee and try to get some very concrete answers to that may be some of the things that have not been fully covered and then decide whether or not we are covered.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122132101	The next brief remark is from Mrs Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122132105	In my rapporteur's speech, I called for comments on this very, very broad legal basis, which the draft law lays down in relation to the pricing of carrier bags. And I would like to thank the Minister for putting it into practice somewhat more, namely by the Minister's counting on a carry bag to cost at least 4 kroner. But I would like to ask the Minister what will then be the reason if the Minister wishes to raise the price later. Is it the case, for example, that a market analysis needs to be carried out? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122132136	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122132137	Thank you for the question. Yes, it was precisely an attempt to put into practice what it really means. And that is one of the things that has been important to me, namely that it is not just this that a minimum price should be a single penny, so that, in fact, the ban could be avoided fairly easily, but that a minimum price should actually be attached to this proposal, so that we ensure that it will also have the effect we want. So you could say that the starting point is that you have to pay these 4 kr., and that's going to apply regardless of the size of the bag or what material it's made of. And that is what we have had to take into account. Then there is also something else that we have had to take into account: the EU rules that are there, that is, that it is not really an EU ban. Well, let's say you set the price, I don't know, $100. That's why you won't be able to put the price so high. So there are some frames that you can say the price must be inside, and we've landed on this 4 kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122132238	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191122132303	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 26 November 2019 at 10:00. 13.00 I refer to the agenda which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will also appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
