ParlaMint-DK_20191114100010	The meeting is open. From members of the Folketing, Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Marie Krarup and Halime Oguz, who are on leave, I have been informed that they will be able to meet again in Tinget from 16 November 2019. Carsten Kudsks, Susanne Eilersens and Balter Mørk Andersen's duties as temporary members of the Folketing shall cease to apply from that date. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Food, Fisheries and Equal Opportunities (Mogens Jensen): Bill no. L 62 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Use of Fertilizers in Agriculture and on Nutrient Reduction Measures. Minister for the Environment (Lea Wermelin): Bill No. L 63 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Protection of the Environment and the Law on the Tax of Certain Packagings, Bags, One-time Services and PVC Films). Søren Egge Rasmussen (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 33 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution prohibiting the use of pesticides with the active substance glyphate on agricultural land). Peter Skaarup (DF), Sofie Carsten Nielsen (RV), Karsten Hønge (SF), Pernille Skipper (EL), Mai Mercado (KF), Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT), Pernille Vermund (NB), Ole Birk Olesen (LA) and Aaja Chemnitz Larsen (IA): Motion for a resolution No. B 34 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the removal of mutual dependents for all (citizen proposal)). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20191114100127	Are there any objections to furthering these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114100157	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled. Motion for a resolution (Doc. V 10 af Karina Adsbøl (DF), Camilla Fabricius (S), Hans Andersen (V), Rasmus Helveg Petersen (RV), Charlotte Broman Mølbæk (SF), Victoria Velasquez (EL), Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel (KF), Mira Issa Bloch (ALT), Mette Thiesen (NB) and Ole Birk Olesen (EL). And a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour 107 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT, NB and LA) voted against 0, abstention 0. Proposal for adoption No V 10 has been adopted unanimously. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114100259	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114100316	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 104 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT and LA), against 3 (NB), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114100340	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114100353	The vote may begin. The vote will end. In favour of 103 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT and LA), against 3 (NB), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114100420	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114100436	A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 104 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT and LA), against 3 (NB), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will be sent to the Prime Minister. The next thing we're gonna do, we're gonna have a question debate, and there we're gonna have to change a little technique up here, so we're gonna take a very, very short break. I think we've got the technique in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114100757	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 19 November 2019. Then it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Morten Messerschmidt, for reasons. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114100829	Thank you, President. Today's debate is about something a little peculiar to parliamentary discussions, all the time that we are not usually critical of courts. In Denmark, we are used to the three-parting of power being established, as it has done in the Constitution since 1849, that is, that we have the Folketing, which legislates, that we have the government as executive power, and that we have the Supreme Court, right here around the corner, and the other courts that independently make their legal decisions. That's the way it's supposed to be in a community of law. But that is not the case in the European Union. This is not the case in the international community of law, if we can talk about law in the international community at all. There have been various courts in different ways to move away from purely legal matters and far, far into what is the political parliamentary workshop. Parliament, the European Parliament and other institutions are repeatedly deprived of powers by judges who have not voted for and who often do not know the consequences of their decisions and take them on the basis of purely ideological considerations. Effet utile is called in Luxembourg for EU law to be effective, and this is then used as an argument for time and again to make decisions through judgments that go far, far into the area of work that we politicians should have. It sometimes attracts attention in the press. This summer there was a judgment to great indignation and a great amazement for among others. The Danish Government has at least noted that the Minister for Integration was puzzled by the fact that several Danish decisions were rejected in family reunification cases. And, of course, it must be a little wonder, since it is not many years since we had a Prime Minister who said that the Danish immigration policy would be decided here in the Assembly Hall right up to the sun burning out. Nevertheless, we had a Court of Justice that felt empowered to make that decision. But that's not the only area. In the labour market too, where it might be thought that a social democratic government felt a little pressure, we have seen the Court of Justice take decisions that interfere far with the established rules that we know in the Nordic countries. In the social field in particular, we have seen how the Court of Justice takes very far-reaching decisions which, both economically but of course, also have a legal significance for well-established welfare societies such as the Nordics. For example: The Court of Justice of the European Communities in Luxembourg has ruled that the SU must form part of the rules applicable to migrant workers. In 1986 it was thought that this should not be decided in the Brown judgment. Then, in 1992, you came to your mind and handed down the Grzelczykity. And since then, the sovereignty of the countries has been bit by bit, not just in the area of the SU, where I think we are sending 0.5 billion today. kr. In the case of other countries' students, but to a large extent also in the case of social security benefits. We do not want a Court of Justice that is bouncing around with politicians, and that is why we want to have a dispute with the European Court of Justice. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114101146	Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmide for the explanatory statement. Then we'll get the answer. Here you go, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114101153	Thank you for your explanatory statement and thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising this question. This is, of course, an issue which I know is of concern to the rapporteur for the questioners and which, in fact, is also of great concern to me. That is why I am also pleased that today we will have the opportunity to discuss the question of the interpretation style of the European Court of Justice. I have said in the past that the European Court of Justice has passed a large number of judgments which are activist, for example. on the fundamental principles of Union law and the internal market. The Court of Justice continues to give far-reaching rulings and is expected to do so in the future. What we must then ask ourselves is what kind of course we are going to discuss today: is it the legal one, or is it the political one? Just to close the legal procedure first, I would like to say that the interpretation style of the European Court of Justice is not contrary to Article 20 of the Constitution on the surrender of sovereignty. It was dealt with very carefully in the case of the Maastricht case, where the Supreme Court relied on the interpretation of the Court of Justice and found that the legislative activity which lies is within the scope of the Treaty and in accordance with the so-called requirement of certainty laid down in Article 20 of the Constitution. It was just to take the legal part and put it aside. The discussion we have today and it is, of course, also more appropriate for us to have can be said that the moment we are a parliament is about how we deal politically with the interpretation style of the Court of Justice. And that is also how I understand the questioner. As you know, at least at the moment, we are 28 Member States of the European Union, all of which have their own legal systems, their own traditions and approaches to how courts should act. There are a large number of countries that are part of the European Union, which have more activitic interpretation traditions than we have in Denmark, including countries about which we would immediately say, if we were asked, that it is of course democracies on an equal footing with Danish democracy, but where one has a different tradition in terms of the role of the courts. When I say this, it is to make it clear that we probably could not have a positive expectation if we went to the other countries and said: listen to the interpretation style of the European Court of Justice, so should we not change it a little? It is by no means certain that the other countries would say that this was a good idea. There are a number of other countries that would say: Well, the interpretation style of the European Court of Justice is in line with the interpretation tradition of our own national courts. So we are not in a situation where we can say that this is a political problem that can supposedly be dealt with by a great deal of consensus that it needs to be changed. Then, of course, there is the opportunity to go to extremes and say that if the others do not want to, we will not be there. But if you are in favour of the European Union and international cooperation that is taking place there, it is not an option either, and we, the government and a very broad majority in the Folketing, are in favour of our remaining in the European Union. The benefits exceed the disadvantages. So that brings us to a point where we have to ask ourselves: what are we going to do if we want to be critical of the decisions of the European Court of Justice and its interpretation? It seems to me that the address to the problem is absolutely central, and that is also why I am pleased that we have the debate today and for the discussions that I and the authors have had on the subject in the past. After today, I will also continue to address the question of the interpretation style of the European Court of Justice, both in the domestic debate, to the judges and in other contexts, when I have the opportunity to do so. It is always best to talk openly about things. This also applies, even if you do not have a solution to all the questions. We need an open dialogue, both with the European Court of Justice and with the European Court of Justice. The government is leading, among other things. dialogue with the European Court of Justice by making written and oral submissions in cases before the European Court of Justice. This applies both to matters relating to Danish legislation and to matters relating to other countries' legislation, which may have an impact on Denmark. And we do, among other things. in cases where there is a risk that the European Court of Justice will adopt an interpretation of EU law which is not in Denmark's interests, or when we want the European Court of Justice to amend an earlier far-reaching judgment. In this way, Denmark releases approx. 35-40 posts a year • well-prepared, well-thought-out, well-argued posts, where we use resources to produce Denmark's interests and to present our perception of how EU law should be understood and how it should be interpreted in accordance with Danish interpretation traditions. As an example, I can mention that the government recently argued in three different cases from other EU Member States that the European Court of Justice should reconsider the so-called Tele2 judgment, which limits the possibility for Member States to have rules on logging, i.e. the collection of telecommunications information in order to be able to use them. In addition, I would like to point out an initiative which I know the Danish People's Party also supports, namely the possibility of giving dissenses to the European Court of Justice. Today, the judges of the European Court of Justice are unable to deliver dissensions. A judge cannot therefore state that he or she does not agree with the interpretation of EU rules by the other judges. This government is in favour of a more open and transparent public administration, including, of course, at the European Court of Justice, and one of the means in this respect could be to allow judges to deliver dissidents; the government will work for that. The possibility of dissertation will help to make it clear that there may also be differences of opinion among judges on how EU rules should be interpreted and that there may then be a debate on the different approaches, both among lawyers, who will subsequently have to pass judgment, but also among us politicians. However, on this point too, it is clear that there can be different approaches to the issue among the EU countries. It is therefore far from certain that we can get away with having our desire to have the opportunity to disinsect. Finally, of course, there may also be reason to consider this at a different level: if, as legislators in the EU system, we were now more precise in our directives and the regulations that are being made, the scope for interpretation would be smaller, and thus there would also be less room for the European Court of Justice for this activist interpretation style. In conclusion, I would like to thank you once again for the question. These are debates like this where we can have an open dialogue on the interpretation style of the European Court of Justice, which is of value. In addition, as mentioned above, the government is constantly trying to avoid, in specific cases, an interpretation of EU law by the European Court of Justice which is not in line with Denmark's interests. And then the government will work for the possibility of dissensing at the European Court of Justice. It's my hope, and I actually believe that this way we can move something, but it's not an easy task. As I said, we are involved in binding cooperation, and in such cooperation it is often the case that all countries do not see things the same way. But that should not prevent us from having an open debate, and that should not prevent us from continuing to try to move things in the direction we want. I look forward to our discussions today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114102038	Now it is the case that a brief comment can be made by the rapporteurs who so wish. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114102045	The Minister for Justice mentions the Maastricht judgment, which now has 20 years on the back. With the permission of the President, I would like to quote from paragraph 9, paragraph 6, of the Maastricht judgment: "Danish courts must therefore consider a Community act to be inapplicable in Denmark if the exceptional situation arises that it can be established with the necessary certainty that a Community act maintained by the European Court of Justice is based on the application of the Treaty which is outside the sovereignty of the Act of Accession. ▪ The Supreme Court has therefore stated very clearly that if the European Court of Justice takes a decision that goes beyond the Act of Accession, it is inapplicable in Denmark. A great deal has happened since the Maastricht judgment. We have had new treaties and we have seen the European Court of Justice apply the new treaties in an expansive way. Can the Minister of Justice completely rule out the fact that the multiple judgments handed down over the last 20 years are not outside the scope of the Act of Accession and are therefore inapplicable in Denmark, according to the words of the Supreme Court, following the judgment of the Minister of Justice himself?
ParlaMint-DK_20191114102144	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114102146	No, I cannot, of course, all the time that anyone who ultimately has the power to answer that question is not me, but the Supreme Court. What the Supreme Court really says with that premise, regardless of how it is formulated, is the way I hear it, and if it is not, it is one of the other precepts; I cannot in their head confirm that it is ultimately the Supreme Court that has the last word. That is really what is being said.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114102216	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the Minister for Justice in this instance, and then we start the negotiations. Here the general rules apply to short remarks. First of all, it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Morten Messerschmide.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114102237	Thank you, President. Thank you to the Minister for recognising the serious problem we are facing. It is quite true that other countries see it as a good thing that there are judges who want to take ambitious decisions, they will probably regard it as decisions, so that politicians can resign a little. It is, of course, a style used in certain countries, but it is also true, as the Minister points out, that it is completely foreign in Denmark. And thank you for the receipt that the government will now support trying to get dissements at the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg. After all, it is an instrument that we know from Strasbourg, the Court of Human Rights, which makes it possible to see what the individual judges have voted and how the votes have taken place. On the one hand, it creates openness and, on the other hand, it means that the legal force of some judgments may be slightly reduced, as long as, if you have a 5-4 decision, it is clear that it appears more vague in its application within the case law system than if it is a decision in which it at least appears that all judges are behind it. I'd be happy to accept that far. This is the first time we have had a government in Denmark, a Minister of Justice who has both recognised that the European Court of Justice is activist and wants to do something about it. That's good. The only question is whether that is good enough. The fact is, as we heard from the Supreme Court, that there is a constitution which is the basis of the Act of Accession which was given legal force back in 1973. The Treaty of Accession rests on the Treaty of Rome with the many modifications that we have seen and which are currently manifested in the Treaty of Lisbon. So a great deal has happened. And when, for example, we get there. In the social policy field, the European Court of Justice interprets the SU, the daily allowance, child benefit and a series of other benefits into rules where the benefits in question are not mentioned at all and where the areas in question are not mentioned at all in the Treaty, one could imagine that we are outside the transferory power here. For example, we will be able to make it to the next stage. In Denmark, fortunately, because of the Danes' wise decisions in referendums, there is a legal reservation that says that immigration policy is something that we decide in the Folketing, as we have not delegated power to the EU, yet we can see that the European Court of Justice takes decisions, so only on the basis of other parts of the Treaty, but which is a regular immigration policy, then we have a problem. It is clear that a court cannot simply invent its own legal basis in order to bypass what the politicians have adopted, but when, for example, we do. the Metoc judgment and the Zambrano judgment and other judgments in which there is a genuine foreign policy, that is to say. rules on third-country nationals, just on the basis of the rules for migrant workers, it is, after all, a circumvention of what politicians in all countries, but in particular the voters in Denmark, when they asked for a legal reservation. Although I have words of commendation to the Minister for Justice, I have to say that it is too poor that the Danish constitution is not then targeted. This, then, is sovereignty, which, according to the constitution, is in this chamber and not down in Luxembourg among the judges, and that is where we should fight much harder. For example: I would say to the system down there when a new case is brought when we see the Advocate General's proposal, etc.: You can work with that, friends, but it has no validity in Denmark, because we have not transferred the power. It is not just a view that I and the Danish People's Party claim, it is also the view that Professor Dr. Jur. Hjale Rasmussen argued, and as a number of other recognized scientists are also spokesmen for. It is proposed that we simply say: here and no longer. We have not given the European Union powers on immigration policy, it is quite clear. The former prime minister even had the rather cowardly expression that it stands firm until the sun burns out. Even though it's a little cloudy today, I still think there's a star that keeps us warm here. So we must stand firm on Danish sovereignty. This also applies to the labour market, and it also applies to the institutional area, where we see time and again that the European Court of Justice is shifting power away from the Council where the Minister of Justice is sitting, that is to say, the Governing Council, and then to the federal bodies, the Commission, the European Parliament and, of course, the Court of Justice itself. What is really going on is a nice, polished coup d'état against us politicians, against the voters of Europe, against the Danes, Danish sovereignty and the Danish constitution. And there is certainly a step in the right direction, but it is certainly a step on some of the hiking we are going into, and so I would have liked the Minister to have been a little bit more forceful, because this is actually about the Constitution that we have all signed as a prerequisite for serving here in the Things. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114102747	I got it, sir. Morten Messerschmidt said that there was a proposal for adoption and, for formal reasons, the proposer should read it out. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114102755	Thank you for your kindness. Therefore, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, I should like to make the following points: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the expansive interpretation style of the European Court of Justice is a serious problem. It is therefore essential for the government to take initiatives in the European Union to ensure that the European Court of Justice, in future, only deals with legal matters and cannot take decisions of a political nature. The primacy of EU law over general laws as well as constitutions, its direct effect and a series of decisions in the field of foreign, labour and social law are all examples of cases in which the European Court of Justice should have left it to the elected representatives to decide. A court is not meant to create justice. It must interpret right. It is therefore unacceptable for the European Court of Justice to take decisions on a case-by-case basis that go far beyond what politicians have decided. This behaviour undermines democracy and deprives citizens of a significant influence on their lives and everyday lives. If there is no reform of the Court of Justice in the European Union, Denmark should state that it does not intend to follow judgments of a political nature in the future. • V 11).
ParlaMint-DK_20191114102853	The proposal for adoption will now be included in the further debate. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114102858	What I was sprinkling about was Mr. Knox. Morten Messerschmidt's statement that the European Court of Justice was committing a coup d'état against politicians. Well, I thought that was a fantastic painting of the politicians. Is it not the case that it is precisely the politicians who have created the whole basis for the European Court of Justice to behave in the way it does? And is it not the case that politicians, among other things. has created it in order to avoid dealing with difficult problems and leave it to the European Court of Justice? So isn't it like fixing a bakery for a blacksmith in this case?
ParlaMint-DK_20191114102938	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114102941	It is certainly a paradoxical situation that there are a great many politicians who accept to be made successively unemployed because there are things that are handed over to the Court of Justice. I do not know whether it is because exactly when the Treaty of Rome was formulated, we have thought that it would be convenient to have an activist court making the political decisions. It may be that Mr. Søren Søndergaard has a more detailed knowledge of how things were then. I am just saying that this is what politicians are doing that is being challenged. However, we can say this in a slightly more direct way, namely that it is the sovereignty of the electorate that is being challenged, because that is what this is all about. We are elected by the electorate to defend their interests. The judges have been appointed and therefore have no democratic legitimacy. That's the point. In other words, it is the Constitution or let me use an expression which is probably from French philosophy, which will probably sound beautifully in Mr. Søren Søndergaard's ears, namely folk sovereignty, which is under challenge.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114103032	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Morten Messerschmide. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Jep Bruus, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114103045	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Danish People's Party and Mr. Morten Messerschmide for the opportunity to have this inquiry debate. Basically, I believe that I share the view that we have some challenges with the European Court of Justice and with some of the judgments, because they challenge the model we have chosen in Denmark, both in the field of foreigners as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt is using this opportunity to discuss the whole of the labour market and social issues, but, as the rapporteur also mentioned. At least I think there is reason to be worried sometimes. And that is not only in relation to the European Court of Justice, but also, in fact, in relation to the line that the Commission sometimes takes, and the whole discussion about what rights should actually apply in both the labour market and the social area, and how this conflicts with the objective of having a strong internal market. There we see a number of cases I have dealt with myself in the past in the field of employment where we can discuss whether this is an activist line, but where there can at least be a conflict between what we think is Danish and what we think the European Union should do. It is clear that there is a different line in the European Court of Justice than the one we know at home. That is why there is good reason to use this opportunity, which I also think the Minister made very clear, to say that we are working to make it visible when that conflict is there, but also, of course, and this is probably the most concrete thing here, to ensure that when a judgment is issued, there may be minority opinions which can show what discussions have been held and so that it can also be openly presented what differences there may be in a decision. Then we have to say, even though I do share the concern that we may differ in terms of the gains that are about to have a strong community. That is crucial in some areas. We can see it at the moment in terms of the challenges we face with tax fraud and money laundering and the whole financial sector. We are very concerned about the climate, and here it is absolutely crucial that we have a strong community. In this way, and I would just like to emphasise this, our support and our confidence in the European project are intact. But, of course, you should not be blue-eyed and not see any of the challenges it also poses. I think we shall have an opportunity to do so here. Then I will conclude by reading out a proposal for adoption which enjoys the support of the Social Democracy, the Left, the Conservatives and the SF. Sir. Sikandar Siddique doesn't have to shake his head. I understand that there were five parties. We have also had a discussion between the parties, and I actually think that many of us can agree. As I understand it as a new rapporteur in this area, even if we have not been able to put it forward, we can end up voting in favour or making another proposal. But I will certainly read out the proposal. Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the Minister of Justice has stated that the government is conducting and will continue to conduct an open dialogue on and with the European Court of Justice by submitting written and oral observations in the crucial cases dealt with by the Court of Justice and, where appropriate, by arguing for a less extensive interpretation of Union law and by raising the issue in other contexts, including in the domestic debate. The Danish Parliament also notes that the Government will work towards the introduction of the possibility of giving these minority opinions to the European Court of Justice. - - - - - - - - - - - -
ParlaMint-DK_20191114103422	I think there was a minor discussion between Mr. Sikandar Siddique from the Alternative and the rapporteur up here from the platform. I have to say that this proposal for adoption is also part of the debate. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Messerschmide. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114103438	Thank you for that, President. And thank you for the Social Democratic support that Denmark is now working for dissenser at the European Court of Justice. However, as I mentioned before, I still think it is necessary to question whether that is enough. Could it be imagined that at some point, when cases come before the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Socialist rapporteur could have the position in which it is said that a constitutional relationship should simply be applied, and thus say: this case can easily be brought, but Denmark has not delegated powers? It could be in the labour market field, which I know is close to the rapporteur; it could also be in the field of foreigners where we have found that the Minister for Integration this summer had enormous problems. These are areas where it could never have been foreseen that Denmark would be judged. Because that was never the prerequisite when we entered into EU cooperation, or when we adopted the subsequent treaties, that this should be an EU matter. So instead of going in and arguing for the case before the Court of Justice, you could just call in the house and say: our constitution is intact. Could this be an opportunity for the Socialist rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20191114103537	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114103538	I think I'll take the liberty of leaning a little bit on the answer the Minister of Justice gave Mr. Morten Messerschmidt on the same question, and there's Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, after all, has learned more from the terms of the constitution than from this. In my view, the Minister for Justice responds very clearly when he says that the line that has been drawn is not in any way contrary to the basic law.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114103605	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114103606	But how can we be sure? So, as far as I remember, the Maastricht judgment will be delivered in 1998; in other words, it will be based on the basis of the Treaty which was in force at that time, i.e. the Maastricht Treaty. The rapporteur would like to know there because I think he himself has voted in favour of the fact that there have since been several Treaty changes, including areas where institutional structure and the composition of powers in the Treaty have changed. So how can we be sure that there has been no violation of the Constitution in the span of more than 20 years after Maastricht?
ParlaMint-DK_20191114103634	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114103635	I don't know if anyone can be sure of that. Well, you have to test that, and if anyone can prove it, you have to have a discussion about it. I fully admit that there are challenges not only to the European Court of Justice, but also to the Commission, which I allowed myself to extend the debate a little bit with regard to the way in which we work. And that is why I also believe that it is a task for a Danish Social Democrat government to work very actively to be part of a strong community, but of course also to work within the framework we have and so I lean on the answer given by the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114103713	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We move on to Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114103727	Thank you very much for the floor and thank you, Mr President. Morten Messerschmide from the Danish People's Party to travel, I think, an interesting debate which can very well and easily be relatively long-haired, and there is nothing wrong with that. I think so, sir, in particular. Henrik Dahl will agree with me. But the question is not quite as simple as it is being tried to do. The point about saying that the European Court of Justice is activist and it is completely alien to Danish courts, I do not agree with it. So, Danish courts are also activist. There are also plenty of examples of court-created law at home. Let me just take something like the whole of our replacement law. If you destroy other people's things, who has written a law that you must not and that you should pay compensation? Nobody really does. It's a court of law. It's not in any law. Another example I could cite is something like the employer's responsibility for the fact that an employer is responsible for the damage caused by an employee while he is at work. Where is it? Yes, it is written in the Danish Law of 1683 that you suddenly pull out and say that now this rule applies because you couldn't really find anything else. But we do not use other provisions of Danish Law anymore. It is not the case that people are laid on wheels and steeped because they have had an abortion, although it would probably be a consequence if you had to take Danske Law and say that it was not repealed. So the point about saying that Danish judges are not also activists is simply wrong, but I admit that the European Court of Justice has many more examples of court-created law. So the question is not whether the right of a judge or an activist interpretation, or what we should call it, is a problem in itself or not. The question is, of course, whether the decisions of the Court of Justice are in line with the political views of the individual Member States, and that is where we are at the heart of the problem. When the Court of Justice makes decisions that could never be implemented in the European Union or in the individual Member States, then some powers have been taken which we believe should be political. But again, the arrow points a little back at ourselves. Why is it that the European Court of Justice feels the need to make some decisions on some points where there is no rule of law? In other words, we have not had time to define some issues thoroughly enough. One of the judgments that has been highlighted is, for example, the Cassis de Dijon judgment, which is not about mustard, but about blackcurrant juice, where such a rather interesting principle was reached that if a product is legal and sold in one Member State, then the same product must also be available for sale in other Member States. We cannot create all kinds of technical barriers to trade. It was not something that stood anywhere when the European Court of Justice, which was then called the European Court of Justice, took its decision. It wasn't something that stood anywhere. Subsequently, it has been codified, and that is probably very sensible. Then there have been other decisions, especially in the field of foreigners, where we have been dissatisfied, not least from the Danish side, but here again the arrow points back to ourselves. In some of these cases we have simply slept per hour, we have not spoken, we have not brought the Danish views to the attention of the Court of Justice, and then the arrow points back to ourselves. And then, of course, we always have the possibility that we can subsequently go in to make regulation if we believe that the Court of Justice has come to a wrong decision. However, as I said, the problem is real, but the problem can also be solved. We think it is right, very good, that the government will work to ensure that minority opinions are made in the judicial decisions of the European Court of Justice. It's really good. It will also have a disciplinary effect on the judges that they do not sit by a narrow majority and make controversial decisions. We have no doubt about that at all, so it is very good that the government is putting up with it, and we support it. We fully support this.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114104213	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Messerschmid. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114104216	Thank you, President. I think it is an interesting, rather like procurator cause, which we got here, in terms of how Danish law has developed. The fact is that, first of all, it has been a very, very long development that has created the basic principles of damages law; it extends back to Roman law, so it is not such a quick leap forward, as we see it at the European Court of Justice. Secondly, it has always been in such a way that the Folketing could intervene, whereas we in the Folketing cannot intervene when the European Court of Justice takes a decision, but we can, of course, if Danish courts take a decision. Then we can just change the law, and it says in section 64 of the Constitution that the Danish judges have in their calling to comply with the law alone. So it's so simple. And that's why you can't transfer this relationship. A few years ago, there was a judgment by the Supreme Court, the so-called Ajosdom, in which EU law considered that a regulation took precedence over Danish law, but where the Supreme Court actually found that the EU legal act was not part of the overruled power, i.e. that the 1972 Act of Accession had not covered that area. Therefore, it was not valid in Denmark. - Sir... Jan E. Jørgensen deny that there should be other areas where we could have the same approach?
ParlaMint-DK_20191114104333	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114104334	In other words, if a Danish court makes a decision that we in Denmark think is wrong, then we in Denmark can change the legal situation in the future politically, and if the European Court of Justice makes a decision that we in the European Union think is wrong, then we can change the legal state of the European Union legally. That's the way it has to be. So I do not think there is a problem there, as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt suggests. So to those very, very open questions about whether you can reject anything: I do not think it quite makes sense. It would make more sense if Mr. Morten Messerschmidt came up with a concrete example that he wanted me to relate to.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114104419	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114104421	I would very much like to do so, and I agree that it may also be better. Let us talk about the Metock judgment, which very clearly takes decisions that had implications for Danish foreign policy, while Denmark has not delegated powers in the field of foreigners. Dead Professor Dr. Jur. Hjale Rasmussen felt that this was a clear violation of the Accession Act. I think there have been a number of people who have supported this, that is, people who do not necessarily belong to a political party, let alone my own. So legally powerful people have argued that it was outside of the Constitution. So let us talk about a very specific matter: is Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen agrees that the Metock judgment violated the Constitution?
ParlaMint-DK_20191114104454	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114104456	So, I agree that the Metock judgment was problematic and I agree that we would have liked that decision to have been different. As far as I remember, and it may be, I remember correctly, but I also believe that we did not make any speeches at the time in relation to the case being dealt with by the European Court of Justice, and we should have done so. That is also what is in the text of the adoption. We must pay close attention to the pending cases before the European Court of Justice, even if Denmark is not a direct party to the proceedings, because it has an impact on the legal situation subsequently in Denmark, and that is also what is proposed in the text of the adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114104536	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114104538	It's sir. Jan E. Jørgensen's lenient relationship with the Danish Law, which makes me ask for the floor, for it has been of great importance to the Danish Parliament. In 1894 when the Danish Parliament wanted to harmonise the clock in Denmark with the Law on the Determination of Time, a provision had to be repealed in the Danish Law, which provided that all church watches in Denmark should show true sunny times. So it is a serious matter that the Folketing has had to deal with in its own lifetime, and therefore I do not think that one should take Danish law lightly when standing here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114104616	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114104617	Well, well, I'm really glad that mr. Henrik Dahl mentions the Law on the Determination of Time, because it is a law that very many people do not even know exists. That, as far as I remember, is one of the very briefest laws we have, I think there are three paragraphs if I am not mistaken. Well, we've made legislation for everything, even what time it is. It says a little about how thorough we are going to go to things, and that was perhaps the thoroughness that we should use more, also in EU regulation: that we get everything in. But of course it is difficult when it is 28, unfortunately soon 27 countries have to be taken into account, i.e. some countries have su, other countries do not have su and so on. There is a great deal to be taken into account when making EU regulation, and that is why it is more necessary for the European Court of Justice to be able to go in and fill where politicians have not been at the bottom.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114104712	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114104713	However, the rapporteur agrees with me that the question of what time it is is a political question and not an astronomical one.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114104723	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114104724	In other words, right now it is 13 minutes to 11, according to my watch, and whether it is a political question or a question which is dealt with elsewhere, I do not think I can quite answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114104739	So, enriched, we thank Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen. There are no more brief comments. And we move on to Mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114104806	Thank you, President. The Court of Justice of the European Union shall consist of two courts: the Court of Justice and the Court of Justice of the European Union. Together, they form one of the seven EU institutions. The Court of Justice of the European Union is the judicial authority of the Union, which is responsible for ensuring compliance with Union law, so that the Treaties are interpreted and applied uniformly, and most of us may agree that this is a good idea. The Court of Justice of the European Union thus guarantees respect for EU law for over 500 million citizens. There has long been a discussion of the exercise of the Court of Justice of the European Union among constitutional lawyers, and today's question debate has therefore been a good opportunity to read the annual report of the European Court of Justice for 2018, which states that 1.769 cases were closed before the European Court of Justice, most of which have dealt with general interpretations of acts, i.e. very, very sexy. When the European Court of Justice is also a legislative body, it is generally in cases where interpretations of the Treaty basis are involved or in situations where the legislator has left a unclear legal situation. And with p.t. Twenty-eight Member States in the Council and a strong European Parliament are almost forced to be compromise-oriented, and often compromises are the failure to take a position on a number of issues. However, when a question arrives at the European Court of Justice, it does not have the same opportunity as the legislator to refrain from taking a position; it does, of course, give itself the impression that, as a court of law, you cannot refrain from taking a position, so you must help to clarify an unclear legal situation. So in this way it contributes to the work of the legislator and, on the one hand, it may be difficult not to call it legislativeism, but, on the other hand, it is also difficult to criticise the European Court of Justice for it in these situations. That is why the European Court of Justice is quite natural. The EU countries that have constitutional courts are used to a more far-reaching interpretation, court interpretation, of constitutions than what we normally know from Denmark. So when the European Court of Justice can therefore be creative in its interpretation of the EU treaties, it may frighten us in Denmark, but it appears differently south of the border. There is nothing new about this, and we already knew that when we arrived in 1973. Does this mean that we should not be critical of any convictions at all? No, it doesn't really mean that. This is the case with the law of law, where, unlike science, there is not necessarily a given result, but where it is a question of how to achieve it in its legal arguments and how to balance it. So it is in the nature of things that, when there are legal arguments for a given result, there will also be legal counter-arguments for another result. That's what law is, and that's what it's always gonna be. Danish courts and courts in general can also be right-making, and that is what lies in it. This is not, of course, a problem we are facing when the right to compensation and the right to bond in Denmark have developed particularly within the courts. It doesn't do that in the way that Danish courts activistly, but then you can discuss what you think of. So there is nothing new under the sun in terms of legal conclusions and results will always be debated. It is in the nature of things, and that also applies to the question debate today. In conclusion, just for the sake of good order, I would like to say that the Radical Left can support many parts of the proposal for adoption put forward by the Socialists, but if we do not do so, and instead we have tabled a proposal for adoption together with the alternative, it is because of the wording on this less far-reaching interpretation of EU law, which we think is a little narrow and one-sided, in relation to the fact that there may also be environmental issues where there is a need for a more far-reaching interpretation. So, with these words, I will conclude my remarks here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114105239	Thank you. Should I understand correctly that a proposal for adoption has been tabled? For formal reasons, we shall have read that out.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114105248	Of course. On behalf of RV and ALT, I shall submit the following: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that in 2018 1.769 cases were closed before the European Court of Justice, most of which have covered general interpretations of acts. The Danish Parliament also notes that it is natural that the European Court of Justice in its decisions fills the law in situations where the legislator has left a unclear legal situation. • V 13).
ParlaMint-DK_20191114105310	Thank you. This is also part of the further debate. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114105314	Thank you, President. Now I know that the rapporteur himself is a lawyer, and it is therefore surprising that we can hear him make the comparison, which we also heard earlier from the rapporteur of the Left, between activism in Danish courts and the European Court of Justice. These are two completely different things. For hundreds of years, Danish compensation law has ruled on a judgment, and legislators have nodded and said: yes, we would like that, and therefore we do not intervene, the courts are on the right track. And then we have the European Court of Justice, which fights in all directions and takes decisions that very many countries, very many politicians and very many voters disagree with, but you do not intervene for structural reasons because you cannot, because it is only a minority of countries that want to intervene, or for political reasons, because you do not want to kid the fine judges. That is why I would just like to ask the rapporteur a fundamental question: does the rapporteur think that EU law or the Danish constitution comes first? Which one of the two will take precedence if there is a conflict?
ParlaMint-DK_20191114105416	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114105418	There have been many exciting legal discussions on this over time. I do not think it is right to say that, if you disagree with an EU court decision, you cannot change the legal situation. This can be done, for example, by standing for the European Parliament, as the rapporteur has done in the past, and by working to change legislation and legislation. So in this way there is complete comparability with the fact that if you disagree with a number of decisions by Danish courts that you want to change the legal situation, then you can do something political in Denmark, and in the same way you can do something political in the European Parliament or elsewhere within the EU to change the legal situation there. So it's quite comparable.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114105501	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114105503	When I ask with great interest about the constitutional situation, it is because in 1970 the European Court of Justice handed down the well-known International Handelsgesellschaft judgment, which had just the opportunity to deal with it. The German Government claimed and now, with the permission of the President, I quote from the judgment: certain structural principles of national constitutional law, which should be protected under Community law, were being challenged. It was clear to the European Court of Justice that even when there was a contrast between the national constitution and Community law, Community law gained priority. There it is, then, that I would just like to ask the rapporteur on the Radical Left whether he might not see a need there for some action to be taken to limit activism, i.e. among other things. in order to protect our constitution, because today it is being challenged by the European Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114105546	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114105548	There is no doubt that in recent years there has been discussion about when there has been a particular activism on the part of the European Court of Justice and when there has not been. Compared with the very good dissertation to which the questioner referred, from the late Hjalte Rasmussen, he argued at the time that there was a given activism in the European Court of Justice during the 1970s and 1980s, but in his 1998 work he then tells of the greater restraint that has been shown. So over the years there have been discussions about activism and restraint, and at least in recent years, according to Hjalte Rasmussen, there has been a greater restraint.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114105636	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114105637	Thank you. There is full support for Mr. Kristian Hegaard, for the excellent comparison between Danish courts and the European Court of Justice, is therefore rather large and extensive jurisdictions created by the judges. But I do not fully understand why the Radical Left, and obviously also the Alternative, cannot support the proposal for adoption. Because it specifically states that it is only in those cases where it is relevant So how can the Radical Left be against us going in and arguing in cases where it is relevant for a less far-reaching interpretation of EU law? It is a bit difficult for me to understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114105729	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114105731	Thank you for the question, because then I'll have the opportunity to solve it. What is our opposition to it is that it is seen very closely, that is to say, that you only look at a less far-reaching approach to it, because there may also be cases where it has to be a more far-reaching approach, i.e. environmental matters and other matters that, like taking into account that you have to go in the other direction. So it's because of this narrow, one-sided approach to looking only at a less far-reaching interpretation of EU law that is decisive for our point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114105806	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114105807	Well, of course, that's something I can't decide. But I still think it's too bad. In other words, when it is the less far-reaching interpretation that we are focusing on, it is because that is what the whole question debate is about, and that is why it is fair enough that that is what you address, and only that. I think it is rather a pity that the alternative and the radical left are running solo in this case and do not stand with the parties that usually stand together in EU issues in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114105840	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114105842	We would also very much have liked to have been united, because that would have been the clear strongest signal, and that is why we have also asked, in relation to the remark about the less far-reaching interpretation of EU law, whether it could be reformulated. Unfortunately, this has not been possible and that is why we are standing here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114105859	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114105902	Thank you for the floor. For many years, the Radical Left has decided to be a party in favour of freedom for citizens, for decentralisation, and this debate is about whether the European Court of Justice is more active than the courts in Denmark. In fact, I agree a long way along the way with Jan E. Jørgensen and others that what this is all about here is that you have a court that is governed from somewhere else, which is why we have less influence with our government in Denmark. But if you think about it and acknowledge the premise that Mr. Kristian Hegaard lays down on this, namely that the European Court of Justice is activist, but for a larger area, and therefore the influence of the individual citizen is perhaps the less, Mr. Kristian Hegaard saw that as citizens of Denmark we have less influence on our own lives, so that as individuals we become a smaller part of what is the great European Union and the many people who have to agree than we would be if decisions were made where the right ones belong, namely in the Danish Parliament?
ParlaMint-DK_20191114110014	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114110015	I can say quite clearly that the Radical Left is very concerned about the freedom of its citizens, and the European Union has just helped to create that freedom. When we see major cross-border problems, such as climate and environmental issues, which countries cannot solve alone, it is the European Union that is able to do so. So the European Union is helping to create the freedom that exists for citizens, and it is simply in everyone's interest to strengthen it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114110048	Pernille Vermund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114110050	The specific cases which have been raised today include: in the area of immigration policy, where a large majority of the Folketing, representing a large majority of the population, is overruled by the European Court of Justice. Recognizes Mr. Kristian Hegaard, that when the European Court of Justice denies what a large majority of the Folketing and a large majority of the population believe is the right way for Denmark to go, does the EU also deny citizens' freedom, democracy and the right to conduct policy in our own country?
ParlaMint-DK_20191114110123	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114110125	The Radical Left is still very concerned about the freedom of citizens and, above all, the rights of citizens. When rights apply across countries, as is the case in the European Union, it is only reasonable and natural that those rights apply, regardless of the EU country in which you live. So the fact that there are a number of different judgments and decisions which establish rights and therefore freedom for citizens does not really concern the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114110156	Thank you, sir. Kristian Hegaard. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114110221	This question is, after all, about the activism of the European Court of Justice. I agree a little, but I do not agree much, because much of that activism is something that politicians have decided it should have and use roughly. I am thinking of the so-called Bolkestein Directive, in the working class called the Frankenstein Directive. It was, after all, about the conditions that would apply to workers working in another country and there was a major discussion between the Council and Parliament whether it was the conditions of the host country or that of the home country that would apply. If that were the conditions of the host country, we would have to follow the working conditions of the country we came to, and if that were the conditions of the home country, we would have to follow the working conditions of the country we came from. A Portuguese worker who worked in northern Sweden was therefore required to follow Portuguese pay and working conditions. That was the big discussion and no agreement could be reached. So it failed to write anything in the Bolkestein directive, and then it was left to the Court of Justice to decide. And the rest is history: the Court of Justice said, of course, that it was the principles of the country of origin that should apply, and not the principles of the host country, and we have been struggling with that ever since. Much of the starting point for this is, of course, that, as the basis of the European Union, we have the four freedoms of the market: the freedom of goods, capital and labour and services. It is, after all, the constitution of the European Union; it is at the heart of the European Union. And that is what the Court of Justice is judging from: the right of the market, the right to transport or retrieve labour from other countries, the right to sell its goods. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen and Mr. Morten Messerschmidt mentioned one of the court rulings which concern it. That is simply what the Treaty says, and that is what we are judging from. In fact, it was very clear in the preamble of the old Treaty. Then Sarkozy had it removed in the Treaty of Lisbon. Then I asked the Commission 'I was a Member of the European Parliament at that time' whether it could really fit. And then they said: no, no, we can assure the honourable Member that the primacy of the internal market still prevails. We just moved it around in a protocol that's in the back. Sarkozy then avoided a referendum in France at that number. But you had changed it in a protocol. So the primacy of the internal market applies, and that is what the Court of Justice is judging from. We saw an example of this in the so-called Vaxholm case. Because in the so-called Vaxholm case there were some workers in Sweden who would not tolerate some workers from another country working under bad conditions. So they set up a blockade and closed down the company that was in the middle of that school building. Inspired by the Swedish employers' association, this Estonian company then brought the case before the European Court of Justice. In fact, the Danish Prime Minister went in and wrote a letter to the European Court of Justice saying that it is not part of Denmark's basis for EU membership that one can interfere in industrial relations, and if one does so, one should at least not interfere in conflict law. But the Court of Justice just said "fuck and jump" to the Danish Prime Minister because they looked at the primacy of the market. Their argument was that if foreign workers working in Sweden had to have exactly the same conditions as Swedish workers, why would a Swedish company or a foreign company in Sweden hire foreign workers? Then they might as well hire Swedish workers, which is why it was de facto an obstacle to the free movement of labour. Is that an activist interpretation? Well, I would say it is an interpretation that is in line with the way the EU's foundations are written. That is where we have the big difference between the Danish court and the European Court of Justice. In the Danish court, if there is a dispute over some law, you can change the law. However, the European Court of Justice is very often based on the foundations of the European Union, on the Treaty of the European Union: freedom of movement, the four freedoms. After all, it is not so often that courts in Denmark base themselves on the Constitution when they pass a judgment. That is why we need to change the basic treaty. This is the very big problem that we need to change the basic treaty of the European Union. In any case, we must put some fence posts around the primacy of the market, and that is where we have proposed, together with the European trade union movement, a social protocol which says that every time there is a contradiction between the interests of the market and the interests of employees, it is the interests of employees that must prevail. So that's what we think is the most important thing in this discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114110740	Thank you. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114110742	I'm not sure if we're with or against each other here, sir. Søren Søndergaard. It's a little unclear for me. I actually thought we'd be allies to fight for the Danish Constitution. 'Cause I've got a lot of work to do, and it might have to be modified. Søren Søndergaard in such a glorious light in my world, all the time that we fought together against the Metock judgment at the time, a judgment which is politically entirely within the policy of Enhedslisten. It was about getting a lot of people from the Third World to Denmark, but where Mr. Søren Søndergaard had the view that he wanted to fight politically. The judges weren't supposed to get involved in that. That is why I do not fully understand his hesitation in supporting our criticism of the Court of Justice. Nor do I understand how getting a social protocol would solve the problems of the Bolkestein directive and the internal market, freedom of movement and so on. has created. For who will interpret the social protocol? It will probably be the Court of Justice. At least today, it is the Court of Justice which has the power to interpret all the other protocols annexed to the Treaty.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114110843	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114110844	Yeah, that's absolutely right. But that doesn't change anything about the Treaty and it's perhaps here that there's a slight disagreement that the Court of Justice is actually judging by the Treaty. I do not share the view that there are some judges sitting down in Brussels judging, just as they would like, and just driving out there. After all, the Metock judgment was also about the free movement of labour. That is the principle that has been repeatedly enshrined in the Treaty. That is the core of the Treaty, and before we do anything about it, we can adopt all sorts of things, but we will not get around that core unless, in parallel with it, another treaty, a protocol to the Treaty or, if necessary, a completely new treaty stating that it is not the internal market that takes precedence. And then what I'm thinking is: will the bourgeois share in the fact that no, the internal market should not take precedence in the European Union? I think that would be very good. Then we can almost call a question and get it adopted quickly. For it will be a new Danish EU policy if we say no to the primacy of the internal market. We're in.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114110952	Morten Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114110952-2	Yes, but who has decided that the single market should take precedence? I'm assuming that Mr. Knox... Søren Søndergaard knows Van Gend en Loos, I assume he knows the Costa-ENEL judgment, the Defrenne-II judgment, so all the judgments handed down in the period before Denmark's entry, which just filled out the gaps in the Treaty, in an activist way and said that the rules of the internal market should take precedence, EU law should prevail, EU law should have direct effect, etc. etc. So it is the judges who have made those decisions. That is why this is where the problem starts.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114111027	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114111027-2	I fully agree: that is where the problem starts. But with the Lisbon Treaty was it in 2011? And it is a treaty that Danish politicians adopted without asking the Danish people. Some of us were very opposed to that. We thought the Danish people should have influence. The Danish politicians, the majority, did not want to give the Danish population influence. But it was politicians who adopted it, and that is what the Court of Justice is based on.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114111058	Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard. The next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Sikandar Siddique, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114111112	Thank you for the floor. The fact is that the founding fathers of the Treaties left a lot of important questions to the courts' later decision, among others. on direct effect, human rights protection, etc. The Court of Justice had to settle these issues in specific cases, while the Member States did not have to leave them to the courts. We must be careful not to overrule courts just because we do not agree with the decisions taken by the European Court of Justice. After all, this is really about the common political project and how it is put into practice: how we find a way to defend our common European interests. In some of our European neighbouring countries, there is a tendency right now to ignore the treaties and charters we have agreed on, and I think that is a path we should be very careful about going down. On Saturday it was both the 81th anniversary of the crystal night and the 30th anniversary of the fall of the Wall, and in this context I think it is important that we do not ignore why these treaties were signed. We should use our energies to fight to ensure that, in our EU cooperation, we stand firm on the need for the Union to protect human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. In the alternative, therefore, we also believe that it is extremely important that we have a court to enforce these rights. If you think that the European Court of Justice is too active, it falls back on the legislators, as many other rapporteurs have also mentioned. If we neglect work on EU legislation, it will fall back on ourselves. The courts are merely judging by the law that exists. That is why it is only fair to keep our eyes on political matters and not to shoot the Court into the eye that it is political every time one disagrees with a judgment given. We believe that this is a natural consequence of the political process, when the European Court of Justice is accused of legal activism. The European Court of Justice is undoubtedly different from the Danish courts in its dynamic and legal interpretation style, but the creation of the law is also made possible by a more open and incomplete set of rules in the EU, where 28 Member States and the European Parliament make hugely complex compromises in their daily negotiations, which will then be implemented nationally and implemented in practice. It will then be the role of the Court of Justice to interpret incomplete compromises and to clarify the ambiguities that arise when EU legislation meets national law and practice. In this context, it is almost impossible that the European Court of Justice cannot sometimes be seen as an activist. The EU political battleground is therefore crucial to what will in the long term be the consequence of legal interpretations, thereby giving the European Court of Justice a political role and influence. So if we do not go into the community and fight for what we believe in, we will have no political and therefore no legal influence. Then I should greet and say from the SF, which could not be here: • In the SF we basically think it is good that the EU has a strong court that upholds the common law and is guarding the fundamental rights that we have as EU citizens •. Sorry, Sikandar Siddique, it's fine to give a greeting, but you can't read another party's speech as rapporteur. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114111442	That's fine. That's how it is, but we clarified it this way. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114111455	I just want to know whether the alternative also wants dissidents to be introduced by the European Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114111502	We're very open to look at that. We would certainly like to take a look at that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114111507	Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen. Sorry, sir. Kristian Hegaard. It's also a mistake. Then the various errors lead to there being no more brief remarks. Thank you, sir. Sikandar Siddique. Excuse me, sir. Søren Søndergaard would like a brief comment, but it was not pressed in, I know.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114111534	I would like to say to the alternative rapporteur that the big difference here is that the Treaty, which the European Court of Justice judges in the final analysis, is, after all, much more comprehensive, much more politicised and much more political than the Constitution. The Constitution mostly contains some rules of the game, but the EU Treaty does not, because it goes far beyond that and defines policies in various areas. Then it sounds good to say that you can just throw yourself into the fight, but is it not true that it is quite difficult to change the EU Treaty, even more difficult than it is to change the Danish constitution, because it is relatively easy to amend the EU Treaty? That means that every time you have a specific problem, for example. that the European Court of Justice prohibits a conflict and forces Swedish workers to work on miserable terms because they have to compete with others whom the Court of Justice approves working on bad conditions, then the Treaty really needs to be amended. Can that be true?
ParlaMint-DK_20191114111642	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114111643	I would agree with the rapporteur on the Enhedslisten that it is, of course, more work to change the Treaty, but it is also 28 countries where there may be differences of opinion and opinion. So I would agree with the rapporteur that, of course, it is a more complex work, but it is also a natural part of it and a natural process, when it is such a complex and with so many countries that have to agree and adopt a common constitution, so to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114111716	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114111717	Then I'll try to ask you another way. If you look at the EU Treaty and have a scale from 1 to 10, where 10 is that the EU Treaty benefits employers, and 1 is that it benefits employees, where on the scale will the Alternative place the EU Basic Law?
ParlaMint-DK_20191114111734	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114111735	I will not try to put the Treaties on a line, because I think that is inappropriate. We are extremely pleased that human rights have now been written into the Treaty, and we could certainly look at whether, for example, they are written into the Treaty. should raise our social policy to the level of the Treaty. How should we ensure better conditions for our employees? We are very open to that, so that it is not only companies that have priority and advantages. We are very open to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114111821	Then we can thank Sikandar Siddique and go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114111834	Thank you for the floor. This is my first question debate, and I have to say that I am just so glad that this is happening precisely on this subject and that it is DF and Morten Messerschmidt who have asked the question, because it is a matter which is very close to our hearts. The first part of the debate has been marked by many legal discussions and all this in-depth legal knowledge of the European Union. I fully agree with DF in the criticism of the European Court of Justice. My starting point is another, because it is not legal knowledge, but democratic knowledge, and we can see that we have an activist court which, year by year, drains the substance of our people's rule. That's a problem. It is problematic when we have politicians in the Danish Parliament who promise the Danes, as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt said earlier that foreign policy must be conducted in Denmark, but when a ruling comes from the European Court of Justice, it turns out that what has been promised to the Danes is no longer true. It is also a problem when you promise before an election that you will do one thing or the other, but when you sit in power and actually have a majority in favour of this in the Folketing, you will be met by an activist European Court of Justice who says that this is not possible anyway. It is subversive to our people's rule, it is subversive to our democracy, and it contributes to the increased political leadership that we see in these years. That is why I fully agree with Mr McMillan-Scott. Morten Messerschmidt in that it is a serious problem that the European Court of Justice is so active. I also know that, among some of my sister parties, it is a hot topic at the moment to discuss the European Union: where do you stand? Are you on one side or are you on the other side? A party has been divided in this area, and therefore I am a little surprised that this newly founded party, which was so concerned that the European Union was the reason why it could no longer be in the Liberal Alliance, does not find it appropriate to come forward with such a major discussion about the European Union. You may wonder about it, or you may be upset about it, or how you deal with it. I probably do not share the party's position in this area, so for that part of the debate it does not do so much, but I think that when we discuss something that is so important and that is vital and that sometimes divides parties and that perhaps in some parties divides internally, it is important to have the debate, and thank you for that. We fully support DF's proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114112106	We thank Mrs Pernille Vermund. There are no brief comments. Then we move on to Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114112122	Thank you for the floor, and thank you for an incredibly exciting and learned debate with as many as four lawyers who appear from their absolutely strongest and best side. It's great to be a witness. After all, what we are discussing is the boundary between politics and law, and this is an extremely important issue, because what activism is doing, and which I am also fundamentally critical of, is that it shifts the boundary between politics and law, so that policies are carried out by bodies that have no democratic mandate to do so. It's true, of course, what Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen says that Danish courts are also, to some extent, a little activist. Paragraph 72 of the Constitution says that there is post-, telegraph and telephone secrecy, and it is understood in Denmark in this way that there is also e-mail secrecy, and it is strictly a kind of activism, but it is a benign form of activism. More malignant activism is, of course, a problem that has previously been recognised here in Denmark. After all, some years ago we held the Presidency of the Council of Europe and set in motion the process that led to the Copenhagen Declaration. We did so on the basis of a recognition that the European Court of Human Rights is also an activist and that, in fact, it is also a problem if you join the human rights case because an activist court can undermine the acceptance of the human rights case, even if it is supported in principle. So from here a receipt also to our new Social Democratic government to continue this line of criticism of judicial activism. That is really, really important, because the courts should not pursue politics. They have no mandate to do so. We recognise this, and we call on the government to maintain ongoing criticism both of the European Court of Human Rights and of the European Court of Justice, for this is in fact the support of the principle of the Court of Human Rights and the support of the principle of the European Union that is at stake. Of course, I do not need to remind a social democratic minister that an activist EU Court of Justice can undermine the welfare state. That is, of course, what is a major problem in a Danish political optics. But that also undermines control over who is on Danish territory. It is such a fundamental discussion about who should actually be on Danish territory. It is, of course, something we decide here under the Constitution, but it is being undermined time and time again. That is why we are discussing a very serious issue. We think, as they say, that there is music in the approach proposed by the DF, that is to say that Denmark is making more persistent use of the Supreme Court's ruling that the European Court of Justice does not have jurisdiction beyond the conditions of accession. It is easy to hit harder if you want to, and that sounds like a sensible approach. In relation to the proposals for adoption that have been tabled, and this will be the last thing I want to say from the platform, I would like to say quite simply that I was given this matter at a very late hour yesterday. That is why we shall later be sending out a communication on which of the proposals for adoption we will be voting in favour of. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114112524	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114112527	It may, of course, seem unreasonable to continue the exercise of EU judgments back from the 1950s onwards, when the rapporteur has only had the night to prepare, so I will refrain from doing so, but instead ask the rapporteur to take a closer look at what he started with in relation to the legal-policy gap. It can sometimes be difficult in the construction we have in Denmark to get clear answers to whether it is an infringement of the Accession Act and hence of the Constitution. As you know, we saw it a few years ago with the Ajos judgment. However, could the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party be persuaded that some better instruments were provided so that the Danish Parliament could present unclear cases to perhaps a minority of Supreme Court judges who could then assess the cases and return within a few months, perhaps some kind of constitutional council or something like that that would strengthen the Parliament's ability to assess the constitutional situation in cases?
ParlaMint-DK_20191114112634	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114112636	We do not have a negative attitude towards a sharp and frank and clear discussion of where the line between law and politics is going. What the Minister of Justice says is quite correct: there are many different traditions in Europe, and that is an issue in many countries. After all, this is also a huge issue in the United States in the appointment of Supreme Court judges, where the line between law and politics must lie. And it certainly does not matter that we have a sharp and clear and frank discussion of these issues.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114112707	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114112708	So let me ask less nerdish and more specific: I have put forward a proposal that we should agree to have a Constitutional Council, in other words an opportunity for the Folketing to assess technically difficult matters of a constitutional nature by such a Constitutional Council, perhaps with the President of the Supreme Court or a person appointed by the President of the Supreme Court for the table end. As I do not actually assume that the rapporteur can say here whether the Liberal Alliance will agree to the proposal, I would just like to hope that the rapporteur will then be the rapporteur for that proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114112745	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114112746	In general terms, we will have a positive attitude towards this. The devil is always in the detail of these discussions, and if you were to have a proper constitutional court, it would probably require a constitutional change, as I understand it. Maybe it would. So that's something you have to look at. However, this is certainly an issue that we agree to with a positive attitude, because it is really important.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114112810	Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114112813	Thank you for that, and thank you to Henrik Dahl for telling us what this is really about: not activism or not, but good activism versus bad activism. It is basically just a question of a classic legal interpretation. Is there a sign on the entrance door of a butcher who says "Dogs must not be included," what do you do if a man comes with an elephant or a lion? Can he bring it with him? It doesn't say anything about that on the sign. So should we interpret expanding, or should we interpret restrictively? It's kind of just what it's all about, cut to the bone. So thank you for making it clear that it is not about activism or not, it is about good activism versus bad activism.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114112851	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114112852	Thank you for acknowledging that. That is, of course, true, but that is why the discussion is still important. Something that has global attention is the appointment of new Supreme Court judges in the United States. And, of course, there is always this question on the surface about whether you get a judge who leans on the Democrats, or a judge who leans on the Republicans, but that is not what the discussion is about. It is whether you want activists or non-activeist Supreme Court judges in the United States. It is also a recognition that the United States legislature is also concerned on many occasions about the fact that a court is making policy and has a sceptical attitude towards it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114112930	Thank you. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114112932	Thank you for mentioning the example of the Supreme Court of the United States, which has far more attention in the Danish press than our own Supreme Court, which in itself can be something strange. But we should not have an activism in this way, in other words where the legislators do not know how to legislate, that is not where we are going. And that's not where we are either. We are quite in agreement with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114112957	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114112958	No, not really. But the crux of this debate, which I hope we will continue to do, is, in fact, the circumvention of this principle of taking decisions outside the area in which we have joined the European Union. After all, we have not given the EU a mandate to reshape our welfare state or to make Denmark an immigrant country. Actually, we haven't. That is why, of course, we also need to have a discussion about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114113030	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it's the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114113039	First of all, I think there is reason to thank you for a very good and informative and interesting debate in which we reached a great deal. Well, I had, for example. forgot the law of the time, and it was good like having it repeated, almost in completeness, and thanks for a debate in which I actually thought it was interesting views that were exchanged. In fact, if we say that we are in favour of joining the EU then we are in favour of those who say that they want to get out, we are right to say that this problem will solve if we resign, which is also absolutely right and the way I understand it, and it is not to be polemical, then the Danish People's Party and the Enhedslist, which are parties that do not want to get out of the European Union at the moment, can be counted as well as as parties that do not want to get out of the European Union at the moment, and that means that I may be wrong, it may be that I have not been checked up on it recently, so we cannot choose the course of action and say that we just want to get out. This then means, if we recognise that, and there is also a broad recognition of this, not of everyone, but of the fact that we have a court that is activist, then we have to find ways of addressing that activism, and some of the things that need to be done is to maintain the dialogue, partly in the specific cases, but also to discuss it. Although it can be said that a court should only deal with the cases before it, the fact is that, to some extent, courts are related to the political context in which they are surrounded. The Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, Mr. Henrik Dahl, in fact, explained very well how it has been addressed with the activism shown by the European Court of Human Rights and how one can deal with it, where one has political views on it and where it seems as if the court is actually listening and taking it in, although the court could say that there is a political view and that it is indifferent to that. However, in the real world there is some kind of dialogue between the courts and the political context in which they are part of, and that is why it is also useful in relation to the European Court of Justice to have a dialogue with it. Then you can also take hold, for example. what we are talking about today and where there seems to be a broad majority in the Danish Parliament, namely to say that it would be sensible if the European Court of Justice were to be able to give its opinion. One of the good things about this solution is, contrary to some of the other solutions we have mentioned, as Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mr. Søren Søndergaard, pointed out, namely the difficulty of amending the Treaty, that the possibility of concluding the Treaty before the Court of Justice requires an amendment to the Statute of the Court of Justice and not to the Treaty, which means that the way to achieve it is somewhat shorter. I am not saying that it is easy and that it is possible to do so immediately, but it is shorter, and that would give us a tool. So what I take with me from today's debate, in addition to the proposal for adoption, which will certainly be adopted on Tuesday, as a broad majority in the Danish Parliament has supported it, is that there is in fact a broad majority in the Danish Parliament to work with the activism of the European Court of Justice. It is difficult, and it is not something that we can do quickly, but it is a path that I at least feel that the government has a solid mandate in the Folketing to go. So thank you very much for a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114113454	Thank you, Minister. There are a few questions. Mr President, first of all, I should like to give the floor to Mr Seligman. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114113456	Thank you both to the Minister for his commitment to work for dissensers. This is the first time the Kingdom has had a Minister of Justice with the explicit wish, it is good and also thanks for the concern expressed in relation to the fundamental but also concrete problem we have all the time, i.e. time and time again, with the European Court of Justice. There have been other initiatives in the legal and political debate as well. I remember that, prior to the 1996 summit, the British Government put forward a proposal to introduce a right of veto on certain decisions of the European Court of Justice, which would then have to be taken by a qualified majority in the Council. Could that be a way to go? Because it is very often the Member States against the EU system that we experience. It will also be known to the Minister from the cases where Denmark has intervened that it is often 10-15 Member States that are overruled to the Commission and Parliament as counter-intervenients. So could it be an idea to back the old British proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20191114113607	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114113608	In fact, there is a real need to distinguish. Because if you are now in a situation where the conflict is with secondary legislation then regulations and directives etc. There the political tool has been seen. Where it gets complicated is, of course, where it is an interpretation of the Treaty, it is a question of where one will insist that, if it is to be done, one must enter and amend the Treaty itself. Without being able to do so in detail, I would like to say that the British proposal has dealt with the particular situations in which there has been an infringement of the Treaty. That is why, if you are there, it will be a little complicated, because then you will have to go to court over the Court of Justice. In fact, I think it would be better to stick to the fact that the Court of Justice is also at the heart of our discussion and should not be so active in its interpretation style. It is a complex question which cannot be answered in such a short time, sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114113716	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114113717	I recognise, of course, that the complexity is such that it cannot be said in just one minute that this sort of thing is solved. However, things are a little more connected than I think the Minister says. Now Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, formerly Cassis de Dijon, who created a complete jungle state of law, where everything that could directly, indirectly, potentially or at present prevent free movement was contrary to the Treaty, and there were politicians who were lax and had to wait ten years later for the Keck decision, which the Court then chose to correct the Cassis de Dijon decision. Perhaps it would be nice if politicians had a tool and could say stop, a right of veto.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114113756	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114113757	In fact, I believe that it was the Dassonville judgment five years earlier, namely in 1974, which gave the phrase that it is topical, potential, direct or indirect, and which in fact is a very good example of what Søren Søndergaard said earlier, about whether it really is in the Treaties that it is really something that the Court of Justice was actually going to push through with this wording, and which, of course, confirms the activism it had not really come, did it?
ParlaMint-DK_20191114113835	Thank you. I would just like to say to the Minister that we are addressing each other with Mr. And ma'am, so it's mr. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114113843	Thank you, Madam President. In other words, we can support the measures proposed by the Minister. I'm not quite so optimistic about how far you get. And I would urge the Minister to go back and read the letter which Mr. Anders Fogh Rasmussen, the then Prime Minister, sent to the European Court of Justice in Vaxholm, in which it is said both that this is not in line with Denmark's accession, and that there is no question of interfering in matters of the right to strike and the right to conflict. That's what you did, and it says something about how hard this is. Then I just have to say at the end of the day, for the Minister's information, that's not something I ask the Minister to keep up with the fact that Enhedslisten is still against the EU and that Enhedslisten still wants to leave the EU. What we have said is that we do not want a referendum until there is an alternative, and that is one of them. I would like to draw attention to the fact that in the United Kingdom there must be an alternative which the people have the opportunity to hold up from membership, otherwise the referendum will not make much sense. And, of course, that also means that we agree that there is a period until then when we have to work, that is to say, work for improvement.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114114000	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114114002	Then I shall have to and it is a role that is often found in as a minister to come up with a string of complaints. First of all, I regret that I did not say Mr. and Mrs, and I regret that I was not enough in the current political positions of the Enhedslisten. And then my speaking time is almost up. No, I'm actually gonna repeat it about that letter. In fact, the letter expresses some of what we are discussing today in an interesting way, namely that a Prime Minister says: here, from the political point of view, I have to try to play a legal role. That is what I tried to say before: that one of the options we have to influence the interpretation style of the Court of Justice is, of course, recognition that the context surrounding the Court of Justice and the dialogue surrounding it also have an impact on how the Court of Justice acts.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114114057	Now it is the President who is to regret her coughing. I'm sorry. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114114108	Thank you for the floor. After all, we have three proposals for adoption, and I would also like to acknowledge the Minister and the Government that we are actually going further than has been done in the past. It is no secret that we do not think it is far enough, but I have explained that. That is why I would like to ask whether the Minister, with the proposal for adoption now based on the support of the Social Democratic Party, of the Left, of the Conservatives, of the SF, which I suppose is a proposal for adoption, which is expected to result, a draft, a change in current practice, can account for which of the major issues have had an impact on the population, i.e. the decisions on where the immigration policy should be taken, the decisions on whether or not to grant public benefits to foreigners, in other words, these major areas. Which of these areas does the Minister expect this proposal for adoption to affect?
ParlaMint-DK_20191114114206	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114114208	Well, I have to say there and it's not to be polemical or anything that it's a little bit to mix apples and pears, because what we're discussing is not the material, so not the substantive part. There may be things we are unhappy with where the Court goes too far. There may also be cases where the courts go too far, but where we say that it was actually very nice that it did so. So this is not the material area we are discussing. What we are discussing is the procedural, i.e. whether or not the Court should intervene. Can the Court intervene? That is why the proposal for adoption is based on the active interpretation of the Court of Justice. It is not, of course, a proposal for adoption in which we say: if the Court of Justice is merely proactive in the way we like it, it can be proactive. It is based on the principle that it should not be an activist.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114114253	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114114255	I am in favour of this, but when you go politically into the procedure, I expect it to be with a goal that the procedure has an impact on the people you are politically elected to look after, or on the people you are elected to speak on behalf of. So can the Minister explain to what extent the procedural change proposed by the proposal for adoption will affect or be expected to have an impact on the experience of ordinary Danes as to whether the policy is being conducted in Denmark by the Danish Parliament or whether we should be overruled over and over again by the European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20191114114340	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114114341	The best thing you can hope for in this context is to say that the policy is perhaps also to tighten it up and move it back into the political path. I do not remember which of the rapporteurs it was who previously asked about this with who has democratic legitimacy. That is really what this is all about. If you move there, you have to think that there will be wider support for the decisions that are being taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114114409	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The votes on the proposed amendments will, as I said, not take place until Tuesday 19 November 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114114435	This resolution has emerged from a citizens' proposal. The debate is open. First of all, I would like to welcome the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114114525	Thank you very much. After all, the question of the conditions of children in the asylum system is regularly raised in the political debate, and I am pleased about that, because this is an important discussion. In the government, we share the view that it is important for children in our accommodation system, of course, to be properly treated. The children themselves cannot change their situation and must therefore be shielded as well as possible. It is also important for the government that rejected asylum seekers comply with the decisions of the authorities and return home if they are definitively refused asylum, so that the family can move forward with their lives, and so that the principles of refugee policy are also respected. The proposal put forward by the People's Movement for the Future of Asylum Children is about the children living at the Home Travel Centre Avnstrup and the Travel Centre Sjælsmark in North Zealand. They live there because their family has been refused residence and cannot or will not go home. If rejected asylum seekers choose to participate in their deployment, it is in fact the case today that they can, as a starting point, be deployed in the near future. And that is why I will allow myself to take the place of the children who live at the Travel Centre Sjælsmark, where the children may just risk having to stay for many years because their parents do not participate in the broadcast. The People's Movement for the Future of Asylum Children proposes, firstly, that all rejected families who could not be sent 18 months after the final refusal be granted temporary residence permits for two years at a time and, secondly, that all rejected children be guaranteed admission to primary school and the right to food made by parents until removal or residence permit is possible. I understand that the proposers want children in a locked-out position not to be in danger of being stuck in the exit centres indefinitely, and I therefore very much agree with that. I also don't want children hanging on the Travel Center Soulsmark. In fact, it is also the case that there is already today the right to grant a residence permit to persons who have not been able to leave for 18 months. Then you could put the point there and dwell on it and be happy that we all agree on that matter. However, I take the liberty of considering that the wish is that you should have such a residence permit, regardless of the circumstances. And then it is that the chain falls off and agreement ends, because this is about people who have been denied asylum, and so the starting point for everything else must be that they have to go home. And if you are able to obtain a residence permit as a broadcaster today, that presupposes that you have actually participated and that the broadcast is therefore really hopeless. In other words, it presupposes that foreigners cannot put themselves in that situation. And why is that? Yes, it is because it is not intended that rejected asylum seekers should be offered a carrot by failing to comply with the decision to return home. So you should not be able to work against a residence permit. Thus, in the few cases where it is not possible to leave, a temporary residence permit can be obtained as a removal permit. Access to such a residence permit is, of course, very limited, and of course it should be, in view of the fact that, as I said, it is possible to go home as a starting point. The proposers also propose that all rejected children should have the right to food made by the parents until removal or residence permit is possible. Here I would like to emphasise that the government has already made it possible for the families in Soulsmark to eat outside the cafeteria area. That was actually one of the first things we did after the government came to power, because I agree with the proposers that there are matters relating to the eating situation of families that could be arranged in a more appropriate way. This is why a work has also been started with, among other things: to adapt the physical layout of the cafeteria so that individual families of children have the opportunity to sit more shielded from the centre's other residents. It is also proposed in this citizens' proposal that all children of rejected asylum seekers should be guaranteed admission to primary school. However, I do not believe that there is any need to change the legislation in this area. The children of Soulsmark, who are of compulsory education, have the right to receive education, like other children. It can happen at the internal school, which is run by the Red Cross, or it can happen in the municipal public school • it is slightly different. It is important for the government that children of rejected asylum seekers can, of course, continue to attend school and that they can participate in activities that ensure a meaningful everyday life. It's self-evident. It is not decisive for the government whether or not this teaching is in a primary school, but it is essential that the teaching is equivalent to what is usually offered in primary school. I also believe that, as a Parliament, we need to leave just a little room for individual assessments of what is best. To end where we started, I would say that I do not think children should sit for years at an exit centre. They must travel home with their family because the authorities have considered that they should not be in Denmark. The refugee policy is for refugees. I am very aware that we must take these children into account. They need to move on well with their family. Therefore, I have also asked my ministry to look at how best we support that foreigners without legal residence travel home and how the accommodation of the aliens should be while preparing for the return journey. And here, as a government, we have agreed with the SF, the Enhedslisten and the Radical Left that, on the basis of the recommendations of the Red Cross and the Ombudsman, we will change these matters. However, the government does not want asylum seekers who do not comply with the requirement to return home and do not participate in their departure to be able to create a residence in Denmark. Against this background, the government cannot support this motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114115123	Thank you, Minister. There was a brief comment here at the end. This is Mrs Susanne Eilersen from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114115131	Thank you. In fact, I would not have taken the floor because I think that many of the things the Minister said were clear enough. I would like to ask the Minister to clarify what these are and what the Minister intends to change in this respect.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114115158	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114115159	Thank you for the floor. It is true that after the parliamentary elections the Social Democratic Party entered into discussions with the Enhedslisten, the SF and the Radical Left, and here we had among others. discussions about the conditions at the exit centres and in particular the conditions at the Travel Centre Soulsmark, and here we decided that we based on recommendations from among others. The Red Cross would change things. They point, among other things, to: I think that is a good recommendation, and with this in mind we are also planning to improve the conditions for these children, because we believe that there is a need to protect them more.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114115247	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114115249	Thank you. But we are all concerned that children are not well. And the Minister himself said so: it is like the responsibility of the parents when they have been refused and have to leave. Does the Minister believe that there will be more at e.g. the Excursion Centre Soulsmark, which will suddenly participate in the broadcast, thus voluntarily being active in a broadcast if any better conditions are introduced for leisure activities and other activities?
ParlaMint-DK_20191114115319	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114115320	I don't know. After all, Mrs Susanne Eilersen is also asking a question about whether I believe and I believe that there will be neither more participation nor fewer participation. And precisely because I do not think it is important for families to be involved or not, I also think that there should be room in Danish society to ensure conditions for those children so that we protect them as well as we can from the situation in which they have been brought in innocently. There may be a lot of actors in these asylum cases that you can be tired of, but you can't be tired of the kids.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114115356	Thank you. Then a little more brief comments were made. The next one's from sir. Sikandar Siddique from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114115403	Thank you for the floor. I would like to know whether the Minister thinks that we are taking care of the child's best interests, which we have to do under the Children's Convention, when 61 per cent. of the children probably meet the criteria for a child psychiatric diagnosis and an additional 19 per cent. may do so. Does the Minister think that, with the conditions under which children live, among other things, we are living? Soul field, can we say that we care for the best interests of the children?
ParlaMint-DK_20191114115440	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114115442	Thank you again for the question, which I think is very relevant, because I think that, as a parliament, we have a special responsibility, as a minister, to ensure that, in these cases, we respect the Convention on the Rights of the Child. I have also read with interest the statement made by the Parliamentary Ombudsman on the situation at the Travel Centre Sjælsmark, and here is the assessment from the Ombudsman at least that we do not violate the Children's Convention or other conventions. I am very pleased about that, because of course we should not.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114115510	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114115513	Now I asked about the Minister's position. Does the Minister and I understand that the Ombudsman's report concludes that we do not violate the Children's Convention that reaches 61 per cent. Does it meet the criteria for a child psychiatric diagnosis, so that children do not live in disarray and that we comply with the children's convention?
ParlaMint-DK_20191114115548	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114115550	No, my clear view is that we are complying with all the conventions, and we must of course do the same. And if we didn't, I'd change it right away, because we shouldn't change the fact that these kids are having a hard time. I know. I just think it is important to make it clear that they are having a difficult time despite your difficulties, because they are in a situation where they grow up in a country where they do not have a residence permit and where they have no future. Of course they're having a hard time. Our task is then to make sure that they are having a hard time despite
ParlaMint-DK_20191114115629	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114115632	Thank you for the floor. Following on from the question from DF earlier on, I fully agree that when we talk about children, you have a different relationship with it. It's more difficult to put your head in front if you can put it that way. It's easy to let your heart run out with you. Having said that, we are in such a rational position, which means that we have many who come here illegally and who voluntarily go home, and then we have some who come here illegally and who do not voluntarily go home. Some of them live in the Soul Field, and some of them have children. Following on from DF's questions earlier, I have to ask the Minister, not with the heart, but quite rationally: is it the Minister's assessment that there will be no more of the many who voluntarily go home today, thinking that if the conditions in Soulsmark are improved, if there is an opportunity for a temporary residence permit after 18 months, but first and foremost if the conditions in Soulsmark are improved, will they try to get politicians to reverse the decision? Will this not increase the incentive for more people to stay and try to get politicians to reverse the decision?
ParlaMint-DK_20191114115801	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114115802	It depends, of course, on how we improve conditions. But the government is not prepared to change the conditions in a way that in itself will cause people to oppose their own repatriation. Of course. But we believe that there is room and space to improve them without it having any consequences for it. But one thing I am quite sure of is that if we say that you get a residence permit, as long as it has not been possible for 18 months for the authorities to send a home, I am quite sure that fewer people will go home voluntarily. That is why I would strongly warn against voting in favour of this citizens' proposal. Of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114115837	Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114115844	Thank you, Minister. I did not really intend to take the floor, but I think that everything was rather unclear when the Minister was supposed to answer the Danish People's Party's rapporteur's question as to what the agreement on which the Minister was the minister at all and which was concluded with Enhedslisten, Radicals and SF was about. So I thought it might be good for clarity in this Chamber that the Minister just read out the few lines from the agreement or, at least, just specified what that agreement is about, so that everyone knows before we start the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114115922	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114115923	I cannot read it out, because I do not have it here, but I feel that I may remember it fairly well, namely that the families must move out of Soulsmark and that an exit centre must be set up, based on the recommendations of the Red Cross. I also think that an excellent statement has been made by the Ombudsman of the Danish Parliament, who can also be included in the discussions.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114115944	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114115946	I fully recognize the description of the agreement we have reached that the Minister made here. This is also why it is a good agreement, because it means that the children must leave Soulsmark. Soulsmark must close as a center where we have children. They must be placed elsewhere under better conditions. It is simply an agreement that we have reached. I think it may have taken a very long time to implement that agreement, but we still hope that it is something that is going to happen very, very soon, because in our view it cannot be done quickly enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114120024	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114120025	In fact, I agree that this should happen as soon as possible, but I would also like to insist that this should be done in a way that takes into account both the staff and those who live in Soulsmark, and also in a way that logistics and general practical circumstances can also keep up, because this should not happen with their heads under their arms. Anyway, this has been on my desk since the day I stepped in, and it still is.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114120056	Then we say thank you to the Minister, there are no more questions. We go to the rapporteur's line, and the first is Mr. Rasmus Stoklund, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114120115	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the authors of this proposal. I can say straight away, and this is probably not so surprising in the light of the speech that the Minister has just made, that the Social Democrats cannot support the resolution. The proposal consists of two parts: 1) All rejected families, which cannot be sent out within 18 months of final refusal, are granted temporary residence permits for two years at a time; 2) all rejected children are guaranteed admission to primary school and entitlement to food made by parents until removal is possible or they have been granted a residence permit. I will start with the last proposal first. In the Social Democratic Party we agree that more can be done in relation to the family's eating situation at the Travel Centre Sjælsmark. That is why, as the Minister explained before, the government has made it possible for families to eat outside the cafeteria area, and work has been started to improve opportunities for eating together as a family. In relation to schooling, it is now the case that all children of compulsory education have the right to receive education corresponding to the level of primary education. In the case of people who have been refused asylum • which is the first part of the proposal • they have been refused because they do not have a need for protection. I believe that the proposal for a residence permit guarantee after 18 months is a dangerous road to go down because it is people who do not have a need for protection; therefore, they should not embark on a dangerous journey towards Denmark and then refrain from cooperating when they have been refused asylum. In practice, this will mean that after the refusal you can actually expect a residence permit. The consequence will be de facto free immigration to Denmark, and on that basis the Social Democrats cannot support the proposal. This does not alter the fact that, while the families are here, we must protect the children as well as possible, in the context of the situation in which their parents unfortunately maintain them, because it is the parents who keep the children in this limbo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114120317	Then we go to the questions. First, it's Mrs. Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114120322	Thank you. Unfortunately, I could not ask the Minister a question again, but then I am glad that our fellow rapporteur from the Enhedslisten painted it in black and white, because I think the Minister had some wool in his mouth. Now I can ask the rapporteur, who comes from the same party as the minister: can the rapporteur, with the agreement that has been made with this understanding paper, confirm that the children must leave Zealand, that in their election campaign the Social Democrats said that they would maintain a strict immigration policy and that a comma should not be moved, but are now completely loosening up on the fundamentals of immigration policy, and that we will now see that if that understanding paper is really put into practice, we will have many, many more people who do not want to take an active part in their own journey home, but, of course, instead will sit on their tails and hind legs, because they know that if they are steadfast long enough, they will live in Danish society?
ParlaMint-DK_20191114120419	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114120420	I do not recognise the premise that it will be decisive for the rejected families of children, rejected asylum seekers who are in the Soulsmark, and that it will then result in them being moved to another location, that they will even more oppose the work that is in sending them. I simply do not accept that paragraph. Because there is no question of them coming out and becoming part of society and thus having a normal life. They are still away in a position that is not satisfactory for either the adults or the children, and therefore it will not be attractive for them in the long term to stay in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114120455	Mrs. Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114120456	All other things being equal: if you move some families of children from the understanding paper that is made, it is probably because it has to be to another, more attractive place. There must be some more activity or, as the Minister also said, there must be some more action. There is no one here who, when they take the heart with them, does not like children or does not feel sorry for children, but we also have an obligation because we have legislation that says that some people cannot be in this country. How do we get them to go back out? I would just like the rapporteur to clarify why the rapporteur does not believe that there will be no more families with children who will be actively involved in being repatriated when some improved rules are made elsewhere?
ParlaMint-DK_20191114120541	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114120542	Well, I would like to confirm that we in the Social Democratic Party would like to keep our hearts warm, but our heads are cold, and that is what this is about in this context, because it is the parents who are the problem. It is the parents who do not cooperate on their deployment, and we must do everything we can to push them to follow the instructions given to them by the authorities. They have also been dealt with by an independent body, the Refugee Board, and are still refusing to comply with the instructions given to them. But that does not change the fact that they should not succeed in taking their children hostage in this matter. We want to do something so that children suffer as little as possible from the situation their parents have unfortunately put them in.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114120618	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114120619	I simply do not understand that the Social Democrats are not more proud of the agreement that has been reached. The Minister did not mention it, nor did the rapporteur mention it in his speech, that is, the fact that there is to be a new exit centre. And then you mention some small things, that is, people can get their food in the canteen and take it with them and stuff like that. Yeah, well, why aren't you proud that we made an agreement that the kids shouldn't suffer from parents' choices? So this does not change the Danish policy on foreigners; we do not give the possibility of waiting for asylum. I have certainly not heard that the Social Democratic Party has proposed this. But I cannot understand why, faced with the attitude of the Danish People's Party and the right, one is not proud to take the children's side. I would be, if I were a Social Democrat, then I would go out with it offensively instead of acting as an excuse for myself.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114120724	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114120724-2	But it has not been intended either if I have acted as an excuse for myself on behalf of the understanding paper, because I am so proud that we find a balance between, on the one hand, maintaining that the parents have put the families in an impossible situation, but, on the other hand, together with the support parties to the government, we will do everything we can to prevent this from affecting the children. This also means that the children have to go somewhere else to live. I also agree that this does not fundamentally change our immigration policy. It is just that there are some children who need to have decent living conditions while they are here and have been unwittingly caught up. On the other hand, I do not entirely agree that this meal and food and the possibility of a more general family life are as neglected as I think it is somewhat being done here. I have been visiting Soulsmark, where I then got the clear impression from e.g.. the staff, that it mattered to these families of children, that they were given opportunities to create a more natural framework for family life, and that it did something good for the children.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114120826	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114120827	Yes, of course it is better to take the processed food that others have made and selected to your room and sit with your family and eat it there rather than sit in a canteen every day. Of course it is progress. But that is not something to be proud of in a situation where children cannot learn from their parents how to cook the food in the country to which the Social Democrats want them to go home and where they cannot arrange it in such a way that there is an activity around cooking and a learning process in relation to cooking and getting used to the way to eat. Well, that is the obvious thing, and that is what we need to get through, and I also understand that we agree with that understanding agreement. But it is more that we talk about the very, very small things rather than talking about the real progress that we can make together and which is great. And I think we should, because I think...
ParlaMint-DK_20191114120925	Yes, please! The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114120927	Well then, I have to work with my communication, because I am really proud of the understanding paper, and I think it is good that we have found a compromise here, and I think it is good that we improve the conditions of the children. I would like to emphasise this once again. But I would also like to say, and I think we should just remember that the fact that they are being moved to another centre does not change the fundamentally frustrating situation in which these children of their families are being put in, and that is precisely that they are maintained in a country where they do not have a future. And that doesn't change that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114120956	It is nice when there is a questioner who listens to what the President says. Not so many people do, but it's great. Then it's mr. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114121004	Thank you for the floor. Does the rapporteur think that the children's convention rule that children are entitled to a good life can be taken into account if children are not granted amnesty?
ParlaMint-DK_20191114121020	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114121021	I believe that the Convention on the Rights of the Child is being observed, and that is not because I personally believe it, because I am not in a position to assess it. But there I am basing myself on the report made by the Ombudsman and the Red Cross, and the clear impression I have received there is that, yes, it is being respected.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114121037	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114121037-2	Then I would like to ask you something about the situation surrounding the children. After all, we have seen the story of the two brothers that Politiken has written a lot about, who are denied and sent back to Afghanistan. Although they said that they are still in danger and could be killed, they are sent back, and the little brother ends up being killed. So my question to the rapporteur is: if you fear for your life and your life is in danger, should you still be sent home if you get a refusal?
ParlaMint-DK_20191114121115	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114121116	I find it difficult to accept the premises of the question. The questioner has to know something here that the rest of us do not know. This is a matter which I do not know in detail at least. I have seen it in the media, but I do not really know it in the details. It has been dealt with, first by the Foreign Affairs Agency, and then it has been dealt with by the Refugee Board, an independent body completely without political control. And there it has been estimated that these people have not been threatened. And that is how it is in all cases where asylum is refused. If we do not have that system, we will have de facto free immigration to Denmark. That is why we need to base ourselves on the fact that we have legislation and a framework. We are complying with the asylum rules, and then the independent bodies will ultimately have to decide.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114121202	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114121204	Thank you for the floor. I am glad that I am not in the government's place and in the rapporteur's place in this dilemma, when I think about what kind of understanding paper and parliamentary hinterland it is, I was going to say that this is the way to lean on. After all, it has been discussed back and forth whether the improvements contained in the paper of understanding, which are being discussed now, will have consequences on the number of illegal immigrants who voluntarily leave. That's a lot to believe. The previous government, including DF and plus New Citizens, is probably of the opinion that it is best to maintain that there are as little favourable conditions for being here as possible to increase the incentive to travel voluntarily. Having said that, there is no point in standing here and believing, so I would like to ask the rapporteur: to the extent that it turns out that the conditions for the families of children are now being improved and that it will actually have an impact on the proportion that goes out voluntarily and how many people insist that they want to stay in Denmark and that we are thus facing even greater problems, is the Social Democrats prepared to reverse the relaxations? Or are you ready to take responsibility for creating a worse starting point for Denmark than you have now?
ParlaMint-DK_20191114121331	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114121332	It is often very black and white in foreign policy. Either something has to be a tightening or something has to be a relaxation. We are, of course, insisting, together with our support parties, with whom I am very proud that we have made a paper of understanding together, for the sake of good order, that we can, on the one hand, conduct a strict immigration policy, but, on the other hand, take account of some children who have been put in a hopeless situation by their parents and do what we can to protect them. And this whole thing about making it sound like they've suddenly come into a very attractive situation because they're being moved to another location, I don't accept as a premise. Whether these children's families are children, we have a focus here on being accommodated in Lalandia or in a hotel, they wouldn't be in an attractive situation, because they are in a country where they don't have a future and where they can't dream of the future like their peers. This is not a good situation mentally, regardless of the physical facilities. It's not attractive.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114121429	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114121430	I would like to admit that a life in Lalandia is not an attractive situation. Having said that, the rapporteur does not answer my question, which is not about the premise or a belief, but which is about: in the event that these concessions or changes are made, let us call them that in order to meet the Social Democrats, how many illegal migrants who voluntarily leave, and how many who choose to stay in Denmark, is the Social Democrats prepared to roll them, now I do not call them relaxations, but changes back?
ParlaMint-DK_20191114121511	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114121511-2	Well, this is a hypothetical question, which it is very difficult to deal with factually, as the questioner insists I have to do. This is a situation that has not arisen, and it does not change our basic attitude: that we have reached an agreement that we are proud of, and it is about protecting some children who have been brought into an unhappy situation by their parents. It does not change a comma that we want to pursue a strict immigration policy. We're just protecting some kids who don't have to get caught up in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114121539	Then we thank the rapporteur and move forward. The next one is sir. Morten Dahlin, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114121548	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. I would like to start by stating that we in the Left think it is very sad when families refuse to accept a refusal to grant asylum and instead choose to stay at an exit centre. It is simply not intended to spend one's life at such an exit centre. It is a temporary residence where you have to live until you leave the country. Therefore, we must not forget in this discussion that when we have families who choose to stay in an exit centre for months and years, it is because the adults, the parents refuse to follow the decision of the authorities and go home. It is quite clear to the Left that people who have been refused asylum must of course go home. This also applies to families with children. We simply have to maintain that these are foreigners who have been through all the relevant bodies and have been definitively refused asylum. They do not need our protection, and therefore they must leave Denmark. Having said that, I fully acknowledge that this is not an easy talk. For the parents' decision not to comply with the Danish authorities' decision, the rest of the family suffers. I understand perfectly well that you want to stay in Denmark. But when it is not possible, the solution is not to take your children and their upbringing hostage. It makes me infinitely sad when parents who could go home tomorrow and make a new life for themselves, if they would, choose to refuse to leave Denmark. Because the decision of the parents ultimately affects the children. The resolution we are debating today, which was originally a citizens' proposal, contains two parts. Firstly, the proposers want the conditions at the exit centres to be changed. Secondly, the proposers want all rejected families, who have not been able to leave 18 months after their final refusal, to be granted temporary residence permits. For the Left, it is essential that an exit centre is a place of temporary residence and therefore the exit centre must be arranged accordingly. If we begin to change circumstances so that a stay at an exit center becomes an ordinary existence, it will be harder to get asylum seekers refused to go home. We in the Left are strongly opposed to the possibility of waiting for a residence permit. It is possible to leave voluntarily to virtually all beneficiary countries, even with the support of the Danish state, and therefore we must insist that you have to leave Denmark when you have been refused asylum. If you introduce an opportunity to wait for a residence permit, we will remove the incentive for the rejected asylum seekers to go home. It will also make it more attractive to seek asylum in Denmark, and it will certainly make it harder to get the rejected asylum seekers to go home. We do not want to be involved in this, and for these reasons the Left cannot support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114121939	There are a number of questions, and the first is from Mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114121943	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. In other words, many of the things that the rapporteur of the Left mentioned are things that we experience on a daily basis in the municipalities in relation to pear-Danish parents, which we have no intention of doing, I assume, to throw out of the country. There are parents who drink far more than they should; there are parents who do not take care of their children; there are parents who beat their children; there are parents who, because of mental problems, are completely unfit to care for their children. So there are plenty of examples in Danish society of parents who in some way behave inappropriately towards their children, but it is probably always our starting point that in those situations we take the children's side. Isn't it? Isn't it always our starting point that when parents don't take proper care of their children, we take the children's side? Then it may well be that it was because I did not listen very closely, but is the Left still, as they have been in the past, completely opposed to • except when it was Mr. Anders Fogh Rasmussen's wife, who had little to say in Danish politics that the children and children's families are coming out of Soulsmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20191114122057	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114122058	Thank you to the questioner for that question. I think it is essential that I start my answer by stating that, of course, there is a difference between how the Danish society reacts to people who have been refused asylum and therefore sit in an exit centre and who could go home tomorrow if they wanted to, what conditions we offer them and their children, and what conditions we offer the children who have a residence permit in Denmark. There's a difference and there has to be a difference. I must also say that I am deeply concerned that Enhedslisten is in a position of power in Danish politics, when that position appears not to be in the Enhedslisten. To the questioner's second question, I would like to say that we support the conditions that existed in Soulsmark before the elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114122200	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114122201	You can be worried about everything you want. After all, I like the fact that you always take the children's side, that you do not say that it is the children who are responsible for their parents' misdeeds. I think that is the right starting point, but there we have a political difference. On the second part of the answer that the Left fully supports the policy that the Left had before the elections, in relation to Soulsmark, I would like to ask: is this something that has been discussed in the Left here after the elections, or is it just something that the rapporteur is assuming?
ParlaMint-DK_20191114122242	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114122244	I know that when one has the habit of working with the Social Democratic Party as Enhedslisten, it is a little difficult to imagine that there are actually parties in the Folketing who think the same thing after the elections as they did before the elections, but that is the style we adopt in the Left. So that must be my answer to the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114122308	Then it's mr. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114122311	It's a little bit in the same groove as Mr. Cole. Søren Søndergaard. Left's former leader, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen said in the election campaign, where he was sitting Prime Minister, that he would change the conditions in Soulsmark. Now Mr. Morten Dahlin, that the Left means the same before and after the election, but it was then under We never found out what Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen set out to change the field of Soul, but perhaps Mr. Morten Dahlin can tell us what the Left was actually going to vote on, because apparently some changes had to be made according to the then Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114122354	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114122355	I can answer quite clearly: the Left is on target for the conditions that were in Soulsmark before the elections, and so is the Left now, even though we are on the other side of a parliamentary election.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114122406	Sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114122407	But excuse me, sir. Morten Dahlin didn't answer my question. Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen from the Left, who was prime minister at the time, said that something had to be changed in Soulsmark. What was that like, sir? Lars Løkke Rasmussen wanted to change?
ParlaMint-DK_20191114122425	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114122426	Thank you to the questioner for that question. I think I will try to say exactly the same thing as I said before: the left is on target for the conditions that we ourselves introduced in Soulsmark before the elections, and we are doing so now after the elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114122442	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114122444	Yes, thank you. It is a strange experience to have to go along with the Radical Left and ask almost the same question, because that is something many have wondered about, both in the election campaign and afterwards, namely where the Left stands on this point. I know where the Left stood when Mrs Inger Løjberg was Minister before the elections were held and where there was a relatively hard hand in this area. Then the election was held, and Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen made some promises. I have also understood, on the Left after the elections, that what was said before the elections is also said after the elections, and this applies among other things. for the fact that you want to use a large part of the financial room for manoeuvre, you now live up to that. So I have to ask you about that, as Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen promised in the election campaign that he would relax the conditions for children in Soulsmark. Is it or is it not the policy of the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20191114122537	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114122538	I don't know what and now I'm trying to quote the questioner perfectly It may be that it was a statement by the rapporteur, who might be able to say it a little more precisely. So, the Left is on target for the conditions that were in Soulsmark before the election, and so are we after the election. The questioner should be welcome to ask the same question again, and I can surprise you reveal that I will reply exactly the same again.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114122609	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114122611	Yes, thank you. Then maybe I should help with the verbatim wording, for here in Jyllands-Posten there was quite specific in the course of the election campaign: Løkke avoids Købberg: Opens to refuse on Zealand must cook. And then there's a whole article about making a change of course................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ I hope that the answer is that the wave of the election campaign will no longer be seen; that the Left will be where the Left stood before the elections were held. But I'd like to ask Mr. Morten Dahlin about making it pretty clear whether what Lars Løkke Rasmussen said here was when he avoided Inger Nøjberg ~ is Left's policy or whether it is not Left's policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114122709	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114122710	I can confirm to the questioner that the Left is at the heart of the policy we were pursuing before there were parliamentary elections when we were in government. If, in some areas, the Left were to change policy, we will make it known to everyone, including the questioner. But, of course, we are at the heart of the policy we ourselves pursued when we were in government. Otherwise, there was no need to lead it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114122734	Thank you. Then it's mr. Sikandar Siddique, and I hope it is on a different subject than the one the rapporteur has answered three times, instead of the rapporteur perhaps having to repeat it twice more. But now it's mr. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114122748	I can assure the President-in-Office that this is something quite different I have to ask about. Thank you, sir. Morten Dahlin. Is the rapporteur aware that after six years of refusing asylum, a family in various centres has now obtained residence because their case was mistreated and they were
ParlaMint-DK_20191114122814	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114122815	No.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114122817	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114122819	And the following question is this: we see it, and we have seen it several times, that the quality of the interpretation is simply inadequate. Does the rapporteur think that decisions based on inadequate interpretation can be trusted and is the rapporteur open to going back and looking at cases where there is a suspicion that there has been a lack of interpretation?
ParlaMint-DK_20191114122855	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114122856	We have absolutely fundamental confidence in the decisions taken in bodies which are independent and not under the influence of whatever political majority there may be in the Folketing. But, of course, we also believe that it is necessary to ensure that there is a quality in the decisions of the authorities in the field of foreigners. If there is a general problem with the quality of decisions in the field of foreign nationals, I would expect the Minister to call for discussions on how we will look at raising quality if there is a general problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114122930	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more questions, so we are moving forward, and that is now Mrs Susanne Eilersen, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114122938	Thank you for that, President. We are here with a citizens' proposal on the conditions for children in exit centres. It is a citizens' proposal that has obtained 50,000 signatures, thereby gaining the right to be discussed in the Parliamentary Assembly. In the Danish People's Party, we think it is very good for democracy that citizens' proposals are put forward here and that we are allowed to express our opinion on it. However, it is probably not surprising that the Danish People's Party cannot support the proposal. I might as well say that right away. If anyone should ask how we stand after the election in relation to before, I can tell you that the Danish People's Party stands as firm on a strict immigration policy after the elections as we did before the elections. After all, the citizens we are talking about have been through our legal system. In Denmark we are a community of law. We have a thorough and fair trial and citizens have been given the opportunity to try their case several times. After all, we in the Danish People's Party trust that when an asylum seeker is refused asylum in Denmark, there is a great deal of work ahead of this decision. The residents who then live in our exit centres are therefore no longer legally resident in Denmark and are obliged to leave. There's somewhere in the notes to this citizens' proposal: an exit center must be regarded as a kind of departure hall at an airport where you wait for a short time to get there. That is exactly what is at the heart of the matter, namely that an exit centre is like an airport departure hall. It is a place where you only have to stay temporarily until you should go home voluntarily because you are no longer legally resident. After all, it is important to say that the citizens we are talking about are not legally resident in Denmark. There are then some parents who for various reasons choose not to follow what is in the law. They no longer have the right to stay in Denmark and are allowed to leave, thus taking their children hostage. There is no one in this room who is evil about children or does not want children well, so if you see it in context, you want children to grow up well too, and therefore you can only recommend these families that they go home, otherwise they take their children hostage, because otherwise the children will live on borrowed time and not know what to do. So the Danish People's Party cannot support the proposal, and we are quite happy to hear that the Left has not changed its view on foreign policy, but we are sad to hear that in this area too the Social Democrats are relaxing what they said they would continue during the election campaign. We cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114123230	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114123232	Thank you to Mrs Susanne Eilersen. I understand from the rapporteur that she takes the view that it is the parents' fault because they hold the children hostage. Let us say that we accept for a moment the premise that it is the parents' fault, but do we still not have a responsibility under the conventions as regards the best interests of the child? In other words, if parents are not concerned about the best interests of the child, should we not, as a society that has acceded to conventions, go in and think of the best interests of the child, regardless of what the role of the parents is? Do we not still have a responsibility to care for the welfare of the children?
ParlaMint-DK_20191114123325	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114123326	Thank you for the question. One could follow the lead in saying: 'Of course we do.' After all, in Denmark we take care of all children, all children who are Danish citizens, all children who are legally resident in Denmark. But we are talking about a small group of people here who are no longer legally resident in Denmark, and I started by saying that we have a community of law in which we thoroughly process the cases we have, and when you then consider that there are some families who are not legally resident in Denmark and cannot obtain asylum for one reason or another, then it is the duty of the parents. We cannot take care of the best interests of all children not when they live outside Denmark but as regards all those who live in Denmark who have Danish citizenship and who have a legal residence, that is to say a residence permit, we must of course always take care of the children's interests, and I am sure that we do.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114123417	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114123418	I think that Mrs Susanne Eilersen replied a little bypass, so I will try again. After all, it is children who are on Danish soil and, for the sake of argument, I will accept the premise that it is parents' fault, but are we still not under the children's convention, according to our international obligations to take care of the well-being of children, if parents do not, as the rapporteur believes?
ParlaMint-DK_20191114123453	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114123454	The children's welfare is also being taken care of at the exit center. This applies to health, and we also heard the Minister talk about some going to primary school, some going to day care, and some doing something else, and the basics are being taken care of that is clear and clear. But we have stood up for the conditions that are in Soulsmark before the elections, and we also stand for them after the elections. And we are sorry when we see a bill from the current government that something else is going to be done, and we are afraid that we will then have more families who can use the time to sit quietly and wait and in this way take a stay in Denmark, to which they are basically not entitled under the law. Therefore, I believe that the conditions that are in Soulsmark, which must be a temporary measure for people to leave, are okay as they are.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114123550	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114123552	Thank you. Will the rapporteur not confirm now that the rapporteur makes it sound as if the social democracy before the elections meant something quite different, that we actually said quite openly that we wanted to improve the conditions of children in Soulsmark? So this is not something that has happened out of the blue and without the people having had a very good chance of taking a stand on it and taking a stand on it long before the election date.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114123614	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114123615	I'm not sure that I've ever heard of children's families leaving Soulsmark, so that's what the Prime Minister said in his speech. But if she has, I regret that I have not listened correctly, but I am not sure that I have heard that the Prime Minister in the election campaign said that families with children should leave Soulsmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114123638	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114123639	I know the Prime Minister has not spoken about how the centre structure should be organized. I do not think that is the key point either. However, will the rapporteur not confirm that the Prime Minister, as opposition leader, clearly said that she would go to the polls, among other things. to improve the children's conditions?
ParlaMint-DK_20191114123656	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114123657	This is what both the Minister and the rapporteur tried to mention before, by talking about some improvements in the food situation, that you had to eat with your family and take the food into your room, etc. But it was not as if it were opened that one should go out of the field of soul. Moving children's families out of Soulsmark seems to me to be a completely different statement than improving some food situations. There's a big step, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114123731	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then it's sir. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114123746	So far we have not been able to find a solution for children to choose their parents; it will probably also take some time to find a solution. That is why we in the Radical Left will not be helping to punish children for their parents' misdeeds or mistakes. It can never and must never be the children's fault. In the Radical Left, we are very pleased that over 50,000 Danes have signed this citizens' proposal whose main objective we support warmly and firmly. In Soulsmark there are some 130 children living under conditions that are under all criticism. The Director of Children's Conditions, Rasmus Kjeldahl, says: "Soulsmark is not a place where it is safe for children to live for more than two weeks. These are children who already have much to contend with, and I am sure that longer-term stays will cause them more trauma than they already have. An exit centre must be regarded as a kind of departure hall at an airport, where you wait briefly to leave. ▪ A society should protect children, no matter what you think about their parents. Radical Left is completely in line with this quote from Children's Terms. Travel centres are only something for children to live on briefly before sending out; it should not be a place where you live on a permanent basis. Unfortunately, social democracy is not willing to shut down exit centres. We, the Socialist People's Party and the Enhedslisten, fought through the fact that social democracy must find another place for the families of children, where we also live up to the proposals for improvements made by the Ombudsman and the Red Cross. After that agreement, four months have passed and the Social Democratic Party has not yet found a solution. That is why I repeat: in the case of the Radical Left, it is a precondition for a bill of finance that the Social Democrats live up to the agreement we have made and find another place for the families of children. The Radical Left supports the aim of the citizens' proposal that children should not live in exit centres. We are, of course, going to vote in favour of that part. However, the proposal also contains a side proposal that all rejected and expelled families should obtain residence permits automatically after 18 months. It is the same as saying that everyone can have asylum in Denmark, and we cannot support that. I understand that Enhedslisten and SF are in the same place, and together with those parties we will be tabling amendments on that aspect of committee work. Children are children, and children must be treated properly as a society. Thank you to the many citizens who have signed and committed themselves to this issue. The Radical Left fully agrees that children should not grow up in Soulsmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114124101	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions. Then it's mr. Carl Valentin, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114124115	Thank you. I wasn't in Parliament when the DR sent the documentary about the children in Soulsmark. But when I saw it, I knew that if I came to parliament one day, better conditions for Taufiki and Dua and Margrethe and all the other children at the exit center would be high on my list of political priorities. Most of you probably know the numbers behind the child fates that are in Soulsmark. But their implications are so severe that I would like to remind you of them again. 80% of Soulsmark's children are at risk of developing a mental disorder. 60% Of them it probably does. Half the 11-17-year-olds have symptoms of ptsd. And it's just the tip of the iceberg. When I mention these numbers or remind you of some of the stories like Taufiki, who has a deep depression and who only goes outside if he is forced to do so at the age of 10, it is because I think it is important to keep in mind what we are really talking about. In fact, I think that most people in this Chamber, if they just leave the political cynic compass in their pockets, can see that this cannot continue. We must not harm children in Denmark. That is why I am very pleased that the trampoline House is putting forward the proposal here. The fact that it has collected signatures is proof that it is not just us molluscs to the left of the Social Democratic Party who think that the conditions for these children are important. It is also a large section of the population, so thank you to the trampoline house for giving us the opportunity to recognise it. This also means that we support both the intention, but also virtually every wording of the proposal, which largely gives a fairly good explanation of why it is important to do something about Soulsmark. If SF had the power and I could determine the country's foreign policy, then these families of children didn't live in an exit center at all, but in apartments, technically linked to the centres, but without their restrictions and challenges. The children attended an ordinary primary school, etc. So we are actually prepared to go further than the citizens' proposal on that part. However, when we come to table amendments to this citizens' proposal, it is because of a single sentence which, if adopted, would have very severe consequences. The proposal means that all families who do not voluntarily return home must be granted a residence permit in Denmark, a residence permit which is in practice permanent because the proposal means that it must be extended automatically every two years. That would mean, of course, what most people might guess, that Denmark would actually cease to have a foreign policy. And whether you had come because you were on the run because you migrated or for other reasons, you would be guaranteed stay in Denmark after 11⁄2 years in the country, whether or not your asylum case had been rejected by the Refugee Board for example. In the SF, we believe that the global refugee crisis must be given priority before we introduce a general residence permit for everyone, including those who have not fled. That is why we are going to table an amendment to the proposal here which retains the full intention to help the children of Soulsmark and to help them quickly, but without the quite far-reaching part about the automatic granting of residence permits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114124448	Then I would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no questions. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114124500	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to express my sincere thanks to all those who have signed the citizens' proposal and to all those who have worked for a number of years to ensure better conditions for children in the asylum system and the right to a proper childhood. The work that has been done is absolutely priceless and it has been crucial for every single step forward in this area. Everyone who has been to the Travel Centre Soulsmark should know that it is not a place for children. Both the Red Cross, the Ombudsman, the Children's Conditions, Save the Child and Danish Refugee Aid have criticised the situation, and it is completely incomprehensible to me that we in Denmark today have children living in that way. Fortunately, it has succeeded in reaching an agreement with the current majority that the families of children should leave Soulsmark. And it would not have succeeded without all the people outside the Folketing shouting out against the inhuman treatment that has been the case so far. And that is why this citizens' proposal, whether or not it is specifically adopted, is very important because it has contributed to the understanding agreement between the government, Enhedslisten, Radicals and SF that children's families should live elsewhere, the children should go to ordinary primary school, they should have the opportunity to cook themselves, etc. Moreover, they must meet the requirements of the Red Cross for good day-to-day services and leisure services, in order to provide children with something similar to a child's life. We have come as far as the children's families have to leave Soulsmark, and that is very good. However, as previous rapporteurs have said, it does not stop here. In the Enhedslisten we believe that children in the asylum system should have the right to live without fences and without access control, that it should be possible for families with children to live in smaller units so that they can have a family life, that children in the Danish asylum system have the right to a safe childhood. That is why we can warmly support the second part of the citizens' proposal. Like several other rapporteurs, on the part of the Radicals and the SF, we cannot support the first part of the citizens' proposal. As you know, the proposal provides that rejected asylum seekers who have not been able to be expelled within 18 months of their final refusal are granted a temporary residence permit of two years with the possibility of an extension. Although the proposers argue that the proposal gives the police 18 months to facilitate an exit, we do not in fact believe that this proposal is reasonable. We fear that the consequence of the proposal will be discrimination. It would be possible for a specific group of rejected asylum seekers to wait for a residence permit. These are the countries with which Denmark does not have a broadcasting agreement. These are countries like Iran and Iraq. Denmark has a repatriation agreement with Somalia, but I do not think it should be safer to be sent to Somalia than to Iraq. Therefore, it seems strange that the residence permit may depend on whether there is a repatriation agreement with the country of origin, and that you should not be able to wait for a residence permit because you oppose a decision, because then it would not make sense to do an individual treatment. Then we could iron all that part. And there I agree that there are a great many people who have an obvious right to asylum, whom we must prioritise first. There is no doubt that as far as we are concerned we are very pleased that we have come this far. However, as I have also said in my speech, we have not achieved our goal. That fight must continue, and we hope that a great many people who are listening to this will continue that fight, even outside the Folketing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114124918	There is a question from Mrs Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114124920	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech and also for the rapporteur's pointing out that there is something in this Finance Act that these children should be moved somewhere else. Wherever it is, we'll see. But I just have a simple question: who is it that forces these children to stay in Soulsmark? Is it us as Parliament, or is it society, or what? They are free to leave Soulsmark, that is to say, travel out with their parents, so we do not force them as a society to stay there for many years to come. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20191114125004	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114125005	I don't know if there's any mention of this in the Finance Act. We will see that soon, but I know that it is in the understanding paper which is the basis for the establishment of the present government and the fulfilment of which is also the basis for its continuation. However, with regard to the question, I would like to say that I basically think it is a strange question. Yes, the parents are responsible for their children, but let us say that there are now some parents who are hammered and afraid to be sent back, no matter how many times they have been told by the Refugee Board, and who knows: Nothing happens to you if you return; no one specifically goes after you; it may well be that you are the victims of a car bomb in Baghdad; it may well be that you are the victims of some battles. There are many who have been killed lately; it may well be that you are the victims of it, but you are not particularly targeted; it is just the general circumstances that are such, so you cannot get asylum in Denmark. If there are some who do not believe in it anyway, but think that exactly they are being hit and there may also sometimes some rumors that contribute to it then I understand that they will not help to travel out. We can say that's wrong, but I don't want it to hurt the kids.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114125122	Mrs. Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114125123	Thank you for your answer. But let us say that the rapporteur and I may have disagreed with another legislation we had in Denmark, should we not follow it, because we thought we could argue that there was something else that did better for our family? Does the rapporteur not have confidence in our judicial system when assessing these matters?
ParlaMint-DK_20191114125150	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114125151	Well, I haven't argued that you shouldn't follow the law. However, there is also a law that says that in Denmark there is compulsory education not compulsory education but compulsory education. I think there were some parents up in Elsinore who, some time ago, prevented their children from receiving education, both at home and at school, yes, anywhere. There we did not say: now we are doing a punishment for the parents, who are at the same time hurting the children. There, something was done for the children to prevent the children from being affected by the failure of their parents, and that's what this is all about. This is about putting children first, and I actually think that the members of the Danish People's Party can understand that when they think about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114125239	Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard. Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov, Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114125254	Thank you for the citizen's proposal. I think it is excellent that we have this system of citizens' proposals which ensures that issues which have a great interest in the population are dealt with by the Folketing. Of course, when a citizen's proposal has obtained over 50,000 signatures, this suggests that there is a great deal of interest in the subject in the population. That is why it is good that a debate is being created, and it is good that it is being taken seriously by the Folketing and that we are dealing with the motion for a resolution. We are not going to vote in favour of the resolution, and we are not doing so for many of the same reasons that other rapporteurs have mentioned. There are some fundamental issues at stake in the way we deal with asylum seekers in Denmark. It's a difficult subject. It's hard to see that there are kids who aren't feeling well. I don't think any of us like that. Of course, it arouses feelings within all of us when we can see that there are some children, for example. We are not going to get the schooling that they should have under conditions that we would like us to be able to give them. We have decided in Denmark that we do not think there is room for all those who apply for asylum in Denmark, and that means that some of them are rejected. They do so on the basis of the rules that the Danish people have decided through their representatives here in the Danish Parliament. It is generally widely supported by the people and also by the political system that we have to reject a large number of asylum seekers. One may disagree with who is rejected; one may disagree with the rules we have set up. It is a completely legitimate and valid view that you think that there should be more people who were admitted to Denmark, and although I disagree with that very much, you can of course have that position. But what you may not really be able to take as an opinion is that when we have decided that you should not have a stay in Denmark, you still have to have access to all the goods that are about to be in Denmark. That is why it is that we are in this situation, namely that when some people do not want to follow the rejection they have received, then unfortunately they cannot have access to the benefits that exist in Danish society. If they were to be given access to the goods, it would be too attractive to refuse to follow the judgments handed down on expulsion and then stay in Denmark. We already find it quite difficult to deport all those asylum seekers who have been refused, and we do not want them to be more attractive to stay here. It is actually a rather unhappy situation that we cannot simply expel people from it. We have these difficulties in Denmark and then we have to rather than have some conditions that we would really like to see better in Denmark. It would be much better if we had an effective expulsion system so that we did not have to make sure that it was not too attractive to be in the country too. Then we could give people good terms while they were here also when they had been rejected and then we could still be sure that they left the country. That would have been a much better situation. Unfortunately, however, we find ourselves in a situation where it matters how attractive conditions there are in Denmark. It means something to how many people choose to stay here. Then it is also the case that we think that it must also be clear that you are responsible for the situation in which you put yourself and your family in when you refuse to comply with the laws in Denmark. It is generally the case that if you refuse to comply with the laws of Denmark and the instructions given by the authorities, you can get into an unpleasant situation. That is also true of other citizens. If you refuse to pay your taxes or if you refuse to follow the traffic laws or if you refuse to pay the fines you receive, you end up in an unpleasant situation where you get to be at odds with the authorities and misplace yourself. That is what we are talking about here, unfortunately. Having said all that, I would also like to say that it is not the case that we do not want to discuss the situation of asylum seekers in the exit centres. We would also like to enter into a dialogue with the government on whether there are some places where conditions are not as we want them to be. But in general we stand by the strict immigration policy and we also stand by the fact that rejected asylum seekers must be sent out of Denmark. And we cannot vote in favour of a motion for a resolution which says that one must obtain a residence permit if only one succeeds in staying in Denmark for 18 months.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114125740	We thank the rapporteur. There are no questions, so we move on to the next rapporteur. It's sir. Sikandar Siddique, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114125800	Thank you, sir. President, and welcome to all the audiences. It is now widely known, or should at least be in this House, that a screening of children at the Travel Centre Soulsmark has shown that 61 per cent. of the children would probably meet the criteria for a child psychiatric diagnosis, and that an additional 19 per cent. Possibly would do it. The parent group had 80%. displeasure to a degree that can be similar to a mental disorder. That was a year ago; the figure has undoubtedly increased since then. On October 28, 2019, children's psychiatrist Bente Rich in an article in Kristeligt Dagblad pointed out that, in addition to the diagnosis of anxiety and depression, children also have disturbances in planning and making decisions that cause chronic injuries to children if they are not treated quickly. Such disturbances conceal an inability to achieve goals by effective and appropriate actions, also called self-regulation. The child has difficulties in learning how to apply rules, with abstract thinking, with problem solving, with maintaining awareness, with building an experience from past actions and with building an inner language to plan reactions and actions. A majority in the Folketing has openly chosen to place children under a distrust which is not worthy of our society and with parents who have been so damaged that they are less able to leave every day, even if conditions in their home country should enable them to return home. When you ask parents why they have not gone home, they answer unanimously that it would be signing their own death sentence. But it is not taken seriously either by the authorities that decide asylum applications or by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, who has repeatedly said that there are no errors in the asylum seekers' proceedings, that they can simply go home and take their children hostage. To claim that no mistakes can be made is the peak of unheard-of power, which has even cost human lives. Of course, mistakes have been made. Most recently, it has been demonstrated that the Iraqis who sought protection in Brorson's Church after having been refused asylum either subsequently received asylum in Denmark or left for asylum in other European countries. The National Police, which is responsible for the exit procedure, have for several years stated that the so-called motivational measures do not cause more people to leave voluntarily. The only consequence of this anti-human symbolism policy is a consistent and deliberate destruction of the children and their parents who have come to Denmark to seek protection. We need to review the policy followed and make new rules on the criteria used to assess asylum seekers' right to asylum. One thing among many is to record the police interviews on tape or video so that we can discover the errors of interpretation which in many cases lead to asylum seekers being judged as untrustworthy and therefore refused asylum. The alternative will assist in drawing up such rules. Having said that, this proposal is a small step in the right direction. The alternative therefore supports the proposal that rejected asylum children should be guaranteed admission to primary school and have the right to food made by parents until removal or residence permit is possible. Better living conditions must be ensured in the home and exit centres during the 18 months they rejected children maximum. shall wait for removal or temporary residence permit. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114130211	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Then we move on to the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party. It's Mrs. Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114130233	Whatever foreign policy is decided in the Folketing, regardless of what a majority is in favour of, a precondition for a successful foreign policy must be that what has been decided here is also what is being carried out by the authorities. If we adopt what is in the citizens' proposal and the resolution here, that we can expect a residence permit in Denmark, so that we can delay our case so much that we achieve what we would like to have, a residence permit, then that will prevent the immigration policy that a majority of Parliament wants. Whether it is as it is being conducted today or whether it should be conducted entirely, quite differently, it would be contrary to what a majority of the population and a majority of the Folketing want. So rationally it makes no sense to say that you should be able to expect a residence permit, and I am actually very happy that there seems to be agreement on that in the Folketing. Another condition must be that children are, as a rule, the parents' responsibility. We also have in Denmark, and thank God for that, a prerequisite which says that if you neglect your children, that is, if there are relationships in a family where parents do not care for their children, then the state and the government must intervene. However, the state and the public authorities must not, of course, take responsibility from parents who do not neglect their children, and here is the second dilemma. Because when you talk about being a state, you have to go in and take special responsibility for some children that parents bring in in a miserable situation, because these parents refuse to go out, so parents who are illegally staying in Denmark, well then we are out on a sloppy plane. I fully agree, as I said before, when I had to ask questions, that this, because there are children involved, is an issue in which emotions are easily allowed to run away. When you end up in situations like this and there are so many things at stake that are here, you have to hit your head. After all, the most far-reaching consequences of a proposal such as this or further relaxation of foreign policy will de facto mean that more people will seek it. Perhaps it would be a little less far-reaching for those who have applied for it and who have been refused residence to refrain from leaving. That is the balance we have here. One of the two proposals contained in the citizens' proposal clearly points to the fact that, if you know that you can only wait for a residence permit, more will of course apply to it. For then this means that the entire asylum system, no matter how we decide to introduce it, has been trampled underfoot. The second part, which deals with how the conditions are to be in an exit centre, in case we have an exit centre in Denmark and set up what has been done at the present time, may turn on that balance between how many people will voluntarily choose to leave and how many will try to stay a little longer. I don't think any of us here believe that a life in Soulsmark, because you get to eat with your family or get to cook your own food, is almost like a normal life in Denmark. However, if that is what makes you think that the conditions for going abroad become too difficult if the family who lives in Soulsmark actually thinks that they are better off there than in what they are going to do and work for if they return to a home country from which they have left without a legitimate requirement to stay in other countries • if that balance is tilted, we are in a bad place. That is also why I am deeply concerned when I hear the Social Democrats end up in this dilemma. Because if you have first relaxed the conditions, are you also ready to take the fight that it takes to tighten it up again? I don't think it was easy being Inger Løjberg. I don't think it was easy to measure this, but somebody's gotta do it. I can't help thinking: Our current minister, I feel for you, if you end up in a situation that I fear you do, where you relax the conditions, move the children out of Soulsmark and it affects how many people voluntarily travel out, and then you'll have to do the dirty work again. For these reasons, of course, we cannot support the proposal here either. We must not risk more people coming here, and we must do everything we can to ensure that those who are illegally staying in Denmark leave as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114130743	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Rasmus Stoklund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114130751	Thank you. I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur will not confirm that one of the reasons why there has been a lot of talk about finding a site other than Soulsmark has been that there is an exercise ground that makes it very uncomfortable for people who come from areas where there has been war to stay there. But is it that a centre is then moved from there to another location, really something that the rapporteur believes will mean that now people are going to flow to Denmark to sit and be rejected asylum seekers? Does the rapporteur really think so?
ParlaMint-DK_20191114130823	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114130823-2	No, the rapporteur really does not think so. The rapporteur believes that if you move the children either to another location or to another situation where the incentive to travel is less, then if you create some conditions for the families, where the incentive that you would like to be, if you are an illegal migrant in Denmark, to travel is reduced, then we will have a problem. And that's what I can fear. It is clear that a possible solution that comes as a consequence of the understanding paper can either lie down where it is responsible, rational, sensible • in one direction or it can lie down where it runs completely, in the other direction. That is where I am glad, as I said earlier, that I am not in the shoes of the Minister and the Social Democrats in the negotiations that are going to take place with the wing that has now been chosen to have behind them when the government was formed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114130929	Then it's mr. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114130931	However, does the rapporteur not agree that the fact that you will be staying at another location and there may be some improvements there will be so that the children are better, basically will not change the fact that this is a hopeless situation for these adults? After all, they are the ones we want to go out, and we have a common cause for that. So it is people who have not been granted asylum, and that is why we share the view that we want them to leave. So does the rapporteur not agree that when it comes to children, it will not change any incentives in this context that children just do not suffer while they are here?
ParlaMint-DK_20191114131006	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114131007	You can have opinions about that. You can believe one thing, and you can believe the other. I note that, unfortunately, no evidence of this has been produced. We don't have numbers that show what it means when we turn on one button and what it means when we turn on the other. But we have a situation in Denmark where we have for far too long been pursuing an alien policy which has been pointing in the wrong direction, and therefore I am just on behalf of Denmark, on behalf of the Danes' freedom and the future basically concerned when one opens the door to changing conditions for people who are staying illegally in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114131045	Then it's mr. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114131047	Thank you. Mrs Pernille Vermund says that it is important that in this debate we do not let our emotions slip away, and I agree with that. It is generally a pretty good idea in politics to think and not be completely guided by emotions. I have to say that 80% is achieved. of Soulsmark's children are at risk of developing a mental disorder when 60%. probably does, and half of the 11-17-year-olds have symptoms of ptsd, is not a mollusk or extremely emotional when you say that the conditions for these children need to be significantly improved. How can the rapporteur defend that we treat children so badly in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20191114131127	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114131129	I do not think anyone can defend that parents put their children in the terrible situation in which they have put children on Zealand, namely that they have either travelled through many safe countries without a legal basis to apply to Denmark and apply for residence here, or that they are in Denmark and have violated the law and therefore stand for expulsion. In other words, whether it is one form or another of illegal migrants who are staying with children, it is a terrible situation that they have brought their children into. I don't think there's anyone here that hopefully wouldn't put their children in the same situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114131205	Sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114131206	Regardless of what decisions the parents have made, I think that, as a society, we have an obligation to protect these children. After all, the conditions for them are awful, regardless of who is to blame for this, and I do not think that the rapporteur can be aware of totally disclaiming responsibility. After all, it's us politicians who decide these terms. So does the rapporteur not think that, as a society and as politicians in here, we have a responsibility to protect these children, regardless of what choices their parents may have made?
ParlaMint-DK_20191114131242	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114131243	Yes, we do, and that is why I note in the report that has come around Soulsmark that conditions for children remain within the Convention. We must ensure that the conditions for children, so that they can have health and education, etc., are what one can expect in such a place. But having said that, the situation you are outlining, the dilemma that you are really outlining, will confront us with two choices. One is: should we take the children away from their parents and see that they are abandoning their children, in other words that they have put their children in a situation that is so horrible that we believe that it is a failure to care? That would mean taking children from parents who are illegally staying in Denmark. I have heard a little about it at some point, but otherwise I have not heard it proposed. The second is that you give whole families much better conditions and say that you must live as Danes do otherwise. There is, of course, just a situation in which I say that this will have a completely different impact on the influx and on the desire of illegal migrants to leave voluntarily.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114131354	Then it's mr. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114131356	Thank you to the rapporteur. The truth is that the political debate is such that we throw away responsibility and we are busy saying that it is the parents' fault. And again, for the sake of argument, if we recognise whether we are saying that fine, it is the parents' fault, then the reality is that we can improve the conditions for children • 61 per cent. may have a mental disorder. Regardless of what the parents have made of decisions, we can improve their situation. I am sure that new citizens and the alternative will not agree on this point. But I would like to ask you about legal certainty. Because it is not about Muslims and refugees, etc., but about legal certainty. We have seen a lot of mistakes in relation to the conversations on whether or not asylum can be obtained. Could it be that New Citizens would agree to tie up these talks so that legal certainty could be strengthened and proper decisions could be taken so that legal certainty would be strengthened both in the Danish asylum system and for individual refugees?
ParlaMint-DK_20191114131507	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114131508	I have to admit that this is such a place where I cannot see through what accepting the interpretation could have consequences that are negative, in relation to the consequences or opportunities it will offer, for people to define whether they have interpreted correctly or whether they have not interpreted correctly. But whether there are errors or not, it must be the case that those errors also risk being there in cases where people have then been granted a residence permit and should not have had it. So if you talk about legal certainty and talk about interpretation that has not been done correctly, it is of course relevant both to those who receive a refusal and to those who are granted a residence permit, but above all to Denmark, for which, after all, we are doing foreign policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114131605	Then it's mr. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114131607	It is quite conscious that I am asking a question about legal certainty, because here I am actually thinking that New Citizens could be involved, and that is not a trick question. It is simply because in many of the cases, when you go back several years, you experience that it is said that at that time you said one, and now you say another, and then it is difficult to document. Then it would be really, really good, both for our asylum system and for the individual refugee... for legal certainty in general... that you could tape these conversations.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114131640	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114131641	I didn't take it as a trick question either. I just took it as a question that I have not dealt with in the past and where I think that, in order to get such a comprehensive picture of what it has with consequences, I would like to know more about it before I answer definitively. It may not be so political to be approachable to a party which is quite different, but I think it sounds interesting. There may be someone out there saying that no, it's not interesting because you know everything. But give me the information, I'll listen, and then we can take it when we don't stand here and have a few seconds left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114131723	Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114131724	Mrs Pernille Vermund used the wording that we are talking about people who have violated the law and are facing an expulsion. What does Mrs Pernille Vermund mean by that?
ParlaMint-DK_20191114131737	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114131738	The only thing to do is to travel illegally into a country without having the right to be here and then refuse to leave. We have legislation that, in order to obtain a residence permit in Denmark and to obtain asylum in Denmark, you have to comply with certain conditions, and if you do not do so, you have to go out. So these people are staying illegally, in other words against the law, in Denmark. Was that an answer enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20191114131803	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114131804	I don't understand. It is perfectly legal to apply for asylum in Denmark. It's legal. And it is perfectly legal for Denmark to reject asylum seekers and put them to leave, so that they can be expelled. But there is nothing illegal about seeking asylum in Denmark. And those in charge of expulsion stand to be expelled, not because they have committed something illegal, but because they do not have an asylum base, and that is something quite different. It is a criminalisation of the vast majority of asylum seekers who have done nothing illegal but to avail themselves of their right to seek asylum because they feel they are persecuted, just as Danish Jews and Danish resistance people did during World War II when they applied to Sweden.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114131853	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114131854	We are talking about people who have travelled through several safe countries, despite the fact that we have conventions, we have agreements in the European Union that say that you should search in the first safe country. So we are talking about people who, in one way or another, have found their way up here through several safe countries to seek asylum here. They then have the right to seek asylum, because in itself seeking asylum is not illegal. But when you insist that you want to stay here and refuse to leave, you stay illegally, in other words against the law, in Denmark. You have no legal basis, you have no legitimate reason to be in Denmark, and that is why they have been expelled. That is also why I say that we cannot have a situation in which people staying illegally in Denmark can wait for a residence permit.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114131947	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Henrik Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114131959	Thank you for the floor and thank you for the 50 000 authors who have tabled this motion for a resolution. If, after you have tried your case according to all the rules of art, you have no basis for residence, yet refuse to go home, you can go to an exit centre, even if you are a family. It is not very attractive to stay in an exit centre, but one can easily be allowed to be free of being there because one can comply with the instructions of the Danish authorities. Those parents who then do not comply with the instructions of the authorities are then actually responsible for the fact that their children may then have difficulty. That is why it is, of course, to turn things upside down when you say that it is other than parents who are primarily responsible. That is why we do not support the resolution. We also think that supporting the motion for a resolution really constitutes a rather dangerous precedent, because it sets some kind of precedent for the fact that it pays off to press the authorities. If you do not accept an authority's decision, it will be rewarded that you simply refuse to comply with this decision. The fact that you can expect a residence permit can form an incredibly strange precedent which I do not ever hope will come to Denmark, because it just means that you wait long enough, the authorities give up their demands. It could also set a precedent for the fact that if you do not pay your bills to the public, you wait 18 months and then you get your bill forgiven. It is a hero, a very strange precedent. So I am glad that, as far as I can hear, there are no parties at all supporting this particular part, because that is a very, very unhealthy principle. However, as I said, we do not support the motion for a resolution and I thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114132231	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Søren Søndergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114132234	It is true that no one has spoken in favour of the part of the proposal that is about obtaining a temporary residence permit. But, sir. Henrik Dahl, why make fun of the proposal that has been made? After all, there has not been a proposal that after 18 months you should have a permanent residence permit and that you can wait to stay in Denmark. That is not what the proposal says. What the proposal says is that you can have a temporary residence permit of two years and then it says that, in exceptional circumstances, the temporary residence permit may be extended. But that does not change the asylum procedure; we are still standing in the way of expulsion. You just put it in some tempo. You can discuss that if you're smart. I do not think it is wise for me to argue why it was not wise in relation to Somalia and Iraq, but let us now be fair in relation to this proposal and say what it is all about, namely that it is not about waiting for a permanent residence permit. That is not what the proposal says.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114132340	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114132341	We can have a long discussion about that. As far as I can see, the practical consequence of the proposal is, although there are some time limits which can then be extended, that one can expect away from the decisions of the authorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114132400	Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114132401	I don't understand how to get there at all. It can be concluded that after 18 months some can have two years in which a broadcast can then be prepared. This can be achieved by reading the proposal and it can also be achieved that, in specific situations, that period may be extended. It is a decision of authority, I suppose; it is not something that people decide for themselves. Therefore, I simply cannot understand how one can come to this conclusion that this is a suggestion that some, if they wait 18 months, can stay in Denmark forever. For that is not what the proposal says, and I just think that, out of respect for the many thousands of people who have discussed this proposal and who have worked for it and who have signed it, we should be fair in the presentation we are giving the proposal here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114132451	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114132451-2	After all, there is no concrete way of determining what will be the practical consequences of the proposal. Sir. Søren Søndergaard has one view of what will be the consequence, and I imagine that it will have a different consequence, and I have expressed that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114132507	Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114132523	The debate is open and the first rapporteur is the Socialist rapporteur. It's sir. Rasmus Stoklund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114132549	Thank you. Today, we are dealing with a legislative proposal which introduces clear rules for parents seeking family reunification with their children in the future, while at the same time allowing those children who came into contact with untransparent integration requirements to look again. This means that children like Mint with this bill will have the opportunity to submit a new application for family reunification. Some parties in the press have tried to interpret it as a great relaxation of foreign policy and a breach of promise. I would call it common sense, and in the Social Democracy we would like to make it easier for children like Mint to return to Denmark. It is common sense that children who have come into contact because of unclear rules are given the opportunity to apply to return to Denmark and become united with their families. Together with the then government and the Danish People's Party, we reached a political agreement in February this year to remove the unclear rules on integration requirements and replace them with a 3-month deadline. Therefore, in future it will be necessary to apply for family reunification within 3 months from a parent's obtaining a residence permit in Denmark. However, the government at that time did not agree that the children who had come into contact should have a chance to come to Denmark. It was kids in the situation like Mint, who's been the face of this bill. Together with the SF, the Radical Left and the Enhedslist, the government has therefore agreed that those children should now be helped by giving the families 3 months to apply for family reunification. In the Social Democratic Party, we are pleased that we are now implementing clear rules so that families do not get caught. At the same time, we are also using this bill to send a clear signal to parents that children should be brought to Denmark quickly, so that we ensure successful integration. The Social Democratic Party naturally supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114132744	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and move on to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Mads Birded. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114132803	Thank you for the floor. Today we are discussing a bill which implements the agreement reached by the then VLAK government with the Social Democracy and the Danish People's Party in winter. The agreement, and therefore now the bill, means that in future the rules for family reunification with children will be much more transparent. The clear starting point will now be that if you bring your child to Denmark within the first 3 months, the child can get a residence permit. This ensures that children who are to have a future in Denmark come here as early as possible. It is good for the family and it is good for integration, and of course we support that. Prior to the submission of the bill, we proposed to the Minister that after a given period there should be an evaluation of the new rules so that we are sure that the rules work properly and we can note with satisfaction that we have been listened to, so that it is now clear from the draft law that an evaluation must be sent to the Folketing by the end of 2022. The draft law also provides for a transitional arrangement allowing children to have a future in Denmark if they have ended up between the two legislative complexes involved. And with the transitional arrangements, those who have been refused in the past because they were unable to meet the demand for successful integration will be able to seek family reunification again. This is about approx. 83 children, who therefore no longer have to meet the integration requirement. We do not know why they did not meet the integration requirement at the time, because we do not know the individual cases. But the Left assumes that we have examined this as best we can at all, so we are sure that the children who are given a second chance in Denmark can be successfully integrated. And I hope that the Minister will also mention this in his speech from up here. Overall, we in the Left support the bill. We are pleased that a solution has now been found and we hope that there will be broad support in the Folketing so that we have clear rules in this area. The faster children come to Denmark, the better it is for the children. Now the rules will be such that there is a solid basis for having a self-interest in doing what is also in the children's interest, namely not to leave them behind, but to get them to Denmark and therefore to the country where they are going to have a future. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114133036	There are a number of brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Rasmus Stoklund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114133040	Thank you to the rapporteur for a good and nuanced speech by the rapporteur. I would like to ask the rapporteur if he does not agree that in the past, the Left has been very bastant in refusing to make this transitional arrangement, which we now seem to agree on is a good idea. Among other things: I remember a cover page on Berlingske on 14 September listing a large number of concessions, and this was one of those who, like the political rapporteur on the Left, were referred to as a social democratic breach, and I do not know what. Could the rapporteur therefore not agree that this might be an opportunity or a first initiative for us to abandon the rhetoric of any policy being either a policy of austerity or a policy of breach, but that we could look at what common sense and the right thing to do in different contexts, as the rapporteur is actually proposing now?
ParlaMint-DK_20191114133131	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114133132	I don't recall myself running around yelling at vows to the right and left anywhere. I am glad that we have reached an agreement, and that is my starting point; I am starting from what I said myself about the government's policy in this area. There are some areas where, down the road, we may very much disagree with what is the government's policy. And if we think it is something other than what you have said in the past, then we will probably not fail to point it out.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114133201	Then it's mr. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114133202	The reason why I have just taken a great deal of notice of this is that both the former Minister for Integration and the rapporteur's colleague, the political rapporteur, Sophie Løhde, have made a great deal of this, as the rapporteur will remember. But I recognise it, and I just want to ask again: can this not be a good opportunity for us to drop the rhetoric in general, that is, the parties between us, and that we start to be more constructive in this cooperation and stop talking about it as a breach of promise and as tighter and relaxed, but just talk about it as good old mayor parties who want to find some good, practical solutions?
ParlaMint-DK_20191114133236	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114133236-2	However, we are here with a legislative proposal which is the result of a joint work. It started on our side of the table, where we had the right to serve and there came a choice which apparently meant that we had to exchange seats, and then we did so and continued and got a bill that we are dealing with today. So there is no point in blowing the flames of fear right in that area, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114133257	Then it's mr. Bjørn Brandenborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114133300	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I hear that the rapporteur says that he welcomes this proposal which has been put forward, and I am, of course, pleased that the rapporteur also says that this was something which was rejected from the rapporteur's party in the past. That is why I would just like to ask whether this is an expression of differing views on the policy of foreigners in the Left since the rapporteur's colleague Mrs Inger Løjberg previously rejected the idea that this proposal could be discussed. Now I understand that the rapporteur is really, really happy about this proposal today, and that is why I just want to hear that we might be able to clear up any doubt whether the rapporteur can tell us a little about it here, that is whether it is really about different views and opinions on immigration policy in the Left, and if so whether it has changed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114133346	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114133347	No, there are no different positions, but there has always been a fear that the group that could apply for exemption in Denmark was a group we were not interested in getting into Denmark. In the course of the process, we realise that this fear is unfounded, as is the case with the recent rounds of negotiations, where I am also sure that the Minister can confirm that it was something that greatly worried us. As we get so much insight into it without being able to see things directly, we believe that there is no danger by letting these children into Denmark, and so we don't have those worries anymore. That is why we have always known that there was to be a derogation for those who had to be in one case pile with one law and who had to be in another; and there were some who had adapted according to rules that then changed. The fact that we have been able to extend it in relation to the fact that some people are trapped between the two legal complexes is really something we are just happy about, because that has meant that the concern we had has been unfounded.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114133455	Then it's mr. Bjørn Brandenborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114133457	Thank you for that and thank you for your answer. I would just like to point out that it may then be surprising that such a blank refusal to investigate the matter was so glaringly rejected, since you were responsible for it yourself. These are, of course, some of the things that were taken up at the time, and that is why it might be interesting if the rapporteur would reflect a little on why it would be rejected so blankly, since what you were worried about does not turn out to be the case. It sounds as if there have been slightly different views on foreign policy, and perhaps the rapporteur could also say whether this has anything to do with the new Presidency, since the policy has changed I do not know. But it is certainly good to hear that there has now been a change of heart. It might also be interesting to hear a little about why it was rejected so blankly in the past and now all of a sudden support around it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114133539	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114133540	Then I think I will repeat what I have just said, that we had concerns about what that group looked like and was composed. And as we gain more insight into it, some of that concern disappears and, of course, the concern also disappears to leave this part of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114133554	Then it's mr. Jeppe Bruus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114133556	Thank you. I would also like to sign up for a good rapporteur's speech, I think, and some, in fact, very good and real answers. As I know the rapporteur, I fully agree that it is not the rapporteur who is screaming about breaking promises or blowing to the fire of fear, to quote now, but I have to say that others in the Left are doing so and that what we are discussing here has been part of inflating the flames of fear and shouting out loud. It is therefore perhaps not quite unreasonable to ask the question whether the rapporteur also sees that what we are now doing together here may not be the result of a breach of the law, but rather the result of a strict immigration policy, but not a stupid and unreasonable immigration policy, where it is actually also a matter of doing something that makes sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114133642	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114133644	Well, I am not aware that anyone in the Left believes that making clear and transparent rules when it comes to family reunification with children can in any way be a breach of promise. I would also find that strange if we were to mean it when we ourselves proposed that such a course should be carried out, which we unfortunately did not achieve. But if anyone has spoken so that it can be misunderstood, it is a good thing that we have a rapporteur in this area who is otherwise clear on that point.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114133712	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114133713	Well then, I would like to acknowledge the rapporteur for that, and I would also assume that it is the rapporteur who defines the policy of the Left here. Mads Birded It is the Left's group who do it). Yes, it's the Left Group, of course. But I think that the rapporteur is speaking on behalf of the Left, and I would just like to sign for and acknowledge that; I think it is positive if we can achieve greater cooperation. However, I would like to say that something has been used.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114133753	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114133754	I am not aware of this in this case, and here I am so honest that I can be at all; I have simply not come across it. But I have seen other areas in which I think we are putting forward a different policy and suggesting a different policy from the one that was discussed during the election campaign, and I do not think we are going to stop pointing that out so that we can be sure that the government will help us to stand guard over the tight immigration policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114133820	Then it's mr. Andreas Steenberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114133822	Even then, when the Left refused to do anything for these children, we had all the information about them, that is, which countries they came from, how old they were, and whether they had been at a so-called Koran school. There hasn't been any new information, but let it go. I would just like to take the floor and commend the Left for having turned around on this issue, because there have been no problems with those children, and that is why it is common sense, and it should also be part of a liberal approach, that a Danish citizen who has married a foreigner and is allowed to have his or her spouse here can also have his or her stepchildren, since there are no problems with them. So praise for the Left's turn. I think that is a good thing, and I think that should be acknowledged.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114133908	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114133909	But if the rapporteur knows that there is no problem with this group of children, then the rapporteur knows more than I do. We can't get full insight into these cases and we don't really know them. We hope that this is the case, and with what we know about it, we also expect that we will have minimal problems with this group. That is the hope behind the agreement we have been involved in making.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114133935	Thank you. Would you like to make another brief comment? Andreas Steenberg No thanks). You drop out. Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments and we thank the rapporteur. Then we move on to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Carsten Kudsk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114133955	Thank you for the floor, President. Why did we support the idea that there should be an integration assessment that decided this? We did so because we thought that with the introduction of an integration assessment for children who had been abroad for a long time, we would avoid keeping our children abroad in the formative years and then bringing them back to Denmark when they had been shaped by values which in some cases are far from ours. We wanted to avoid children being formed by Koran schools. With the introduction of the integration assessment of children who had not come to Denmark immediately, we thought that then the parents who were granted a residence permit would ensure that their children came to Denmark as soon as possible. Unfortunately, there have been individual cases in which a Danish parent and a foreign parent with a residence permit thought that it was best for the child to stay abroad and then, after a few years, apply for family reunification, which meant that the child, when assessed on the basis of the integration requirement, would experience that the alien authorities considered that the child had more ties with its country of origin than with Denmark, where the child's parents had a residence permit. We believe, however, that in cases such as the Thai case concerning the girl Mint, the Minister should have taken advantage of his ministerial authority. We saw in other cases that the assessment was changed here. We have to remember that the children who will benefit from this legislation are not just Mint, but currently. 83 children, and the legislation may include many, many more. We believe that the individual cases that we may encounter where children are caught up can be turned by the Minister, and if there are good reasons to depart from the integration requirement, such as in the Mint case, it will be possible to resolve this with a ministerial authorisation. Because it is perfectly obvious that the girl Mint must be in Denmark permanently. We cannot do this at the moment. We are afraid that we will not have full control over how many people are coming and that we will see family reunifications that will not benefit us. That is why we have a number of points which we would like to see clarified and which we want to make during the committee procedure, and that may mean that we will be tabling an amendment. That is why we are waiting to say whether or not we want to support the proposal. Thank you for the floor, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114134156	Thank you. There is a brief comment and it is from Mrs Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114134200	Thank you. The rapporteur mentions that, when we were in the situation with Mint, he felt that the then Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, Mrs Inger Løbberg, should have granted some sort of derogation in Mint's case. When the Mint case rolled, we held an annual meeting, and I said in my annual session that I thought it was absolutely crazy that these children were caught up in an alien policy that punished the wrong people without solving the problems. DF's answer at that time • and that was Mr. Martin Henriksen, who was in the media with an attack was that there were also Muslims in Thailand, so one could not just give Thai children a residence permit under these conditions. My question to the rapporteur is: is the rapporteur so with her hand on her heart sure that Mrs Inger Løjberg would have escaped properly and properly from granting a derogation under the conditions in which Mr. Martin Henriksen went to me and talked about there being Muslims in Thailand too?
ParlaMint-DK_20191114134307	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114134308	If the Minister had taken up Martin Henriksen and explained that this was a problem in relation to a Muslim girl or something like that, then I think we could have had a dialogue on it. What is just important for us to send a message about is that, like a little bit, you feel that the Minister is sticking his head in the sand many times and not taking the responsibility as a minister and taking advantage of the authority of the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114134328	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114134330	When you, as a minister, fail to do so, and it is rare for me to stand and be the defender of that position, I can imagine that it is because you think that the decision you make is contrary to what has been adopted by legislation, and therefore you have to be much more sure that you are going right. There has been a policy for years, including with DF's not only support, but encouragement, which unfortunately has meant that many of the wrong people have been hit and that problems have not been solved from scratch. This is an example. Does the rapporteur now think I understand that the rapporteur will go back to his group and take up this matter again when we speak Mint, when we speak the other Thai and Vietnamese, etc. I would like to ask the Commission whether it is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114134424	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114134425	We will take a position on the specific examples. What we are then afraid of with this is not in relation to 83 children, but there are also other cases where we can get into some situations. So we will make an assessment and we would like the Minister to use it more in relation to the authority of the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114134439	Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the Radical Left's rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Andreas Steenberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114134449	Dear Mint, dear Poy, dear Kateryna, dear Aphinya, dear Pe, dear Linle, now we are changing the law that meant that you were expelled, the law that led you to divorce your parents. Now you can come home. Congratulations, including to the many others I just mentioned. At least 83 children have been expelled from Denmark since a majority in a few days rushed this law through in 2016. In all cases the parents were allowed to be in Denmark, but their children were expelled. Families were separated into great misfortune for their children and especially their parents. Let's get families back together. I have met with the children and their families that I mentioned before, all quite well-functioning children and families here in Denmark. One was even Danish champion of volleyball, everyone could speak well Danish and was well liked by their teachers in primary school. Nevertheless, they were considered unfit for integration. Neither the Left, nor the Danish People's Party, nor the Liberal Alliance, nor the Conservatives, who adopted this law, could explain what this integration assessment really meant. It was said that it was about so-called Koran school children that you did not want to go to the country. But none of the children had attended Koran school, and few were Muslims at all. This law on integration assessments is going to stand as a pillar of shame for what happens to stupidity when fear takes over. Finally, integration assessments are being removed and all children expelled are being given the opportunity to return home. We very much welcome this. In the future, the Social Democratic Party has suggested that you get 3 months of free passage to have your child aged 0-15 in Denmark. We are against this in the Radical Left. We believe that all children under the age of 15 can of course be integrated, whether they come after 3 months or 3 years. Many are stepchildren of Danish citizens, and I know we have not had major integration problems with such children. It is too violent that you have 3 months to decide your child's future forever. These are divorce families where one person finds love again in Denmark, and 3 months is far too little to agree with his ex-wife or ex-husband whether the child should be in Denmark or not forever. Today, children between the ages of 0 and 8 years have free passage. Social democracy has boasted of this as their victory when it was negotiated in 2016. Now the Social Democratic Party is tightening the law for the children they have previously protected. Radicals will table an amendment calling for children between the ages of 0 and 8 to continue to be given free rein as they are today, and we hope that the Social Democrats will stick to their positions and vote in favour of that amendment. We also propose that all children between the ages of 0 and 15 should be able to attend. Children are children, and unless serious consideration speaks for anything else, they must be able to live with their parents. We can also understand that Enhedslisten will be proposing to divide this bill into two parts: one that deals with Mint and the other showed children's ability to come home, and another that deals with the forward-looking rules. Radicals will, of course, vote in favour of Mint and the backwards, but our final position on the forward-looking rules depends on how the amendments I mentioned earlier work. In those words, we look forward to the committee's reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114134912	There are no brief comments. So we thank the rapporteur and move on to the SF rapporteur, and that is Mr SF. Carl Valentin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114134922	Thank you for the floor and thank the government for bringing forward the bill. This bill is one that we've been looking forward to in the SF. A lot has been talked about Mint in public for good reasons, and I think most people could see how completely crazy it was that she had to leave Denmark. In the SF we have talked a lot about another girl, Aphinya, because her story was just as grotesque, and although these are the two names we know best in the Socialist People's Party, they are far from being alone in having been hit by an unfair integration assessment. There was definitely something wrong with a law that could look at these two mystery girls and judge that they weren't integral. The fact that it was allowed to survive so long at all shows how the territory of foreigners can distort even the simplest questions. It has a little become a story that all Danes agreed with the former government's foreign policy, but that was not the case here, where a huge majority clearly replied B.T. that they wanted Mint and the other children to be allowed to stay. In the SF we are largely satisfied with the bill and the special scheme, which means that those who have been refused under the old law can also be allowed to apply to Denmark for the new law. But no roses without thorns. Although the bill will seem to correct the current thoughtlessness of the legislation, the draft law also provides for a very short period of time in which to apply to bring your children to Denmark. I might as well say that the SF must therefore use some arguments in the committee's work to ensure that that deadline is no longer. Moving one's whole life to another country is a huge upheaval, and in this respect much information can be lost and many unexpected things can arise. If you're so unlucky that you miss the short deadline, it can have very big consequences. We are fully in favour of better integration, bringing children here as early as possible, and we also have the child's best interests in mind and wish to prevent situations where parents actively discourage the child from being influenced by Danish values and standards by leaving the child in the home country. So we understand the need for a deadline, but we have a little difficulty in seeing why it has to be three months. In addition, the government should be aware of a number of the hearings where objections have been raised. For example: I have no answer as to whether the deadline can affect the group of refugees who are granted a residence permit for temporary stay. After all, the requirement for a permanent residence permit must be waived in the event of family reunification for refugees, and it is therefore important that the authorities should be required to inform all parents of the deadline so that lack of knowledge does not cause families to be divided. Last but not least, SF Red supports the child's proposal to make the child's best interests an independent part of the assessment made when dispensing from the deadline. With these comments in mind, however, the SF can immediately support this proposal because, regardless of our objections, it represents an improvement for these children.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114135237	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. And we move on to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Søren Søndergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114135252	I would also like to start by congratulating all the deported children on the opportunity to come back. The rules on family reunification with children have been and are still very tight, and they have been changed several times. We have seen in the media many unfortunate cases about parents and children who were not allowed to live together in Denmark. For many years we have had a rule that in some cases children should be assessed as to whether there is a basis for successful integration. In our view, that rule is largely based on fiction: the fiction that there should be no basis for successful integration of the vast majority of children, even if the child only comes to Denmark at the age of 10, at 12 or at 14. The rule of successful integration has been sold as a consideration for the child, for if the child does not have the prospect of successful integration, it is better that it remains in Turkey or Thailand, then the argument goes. For Enhedslisten it has long been clear that the rule of successful integration is not about the consideration of children, but that it is about the consideration of limiting immigration in Denmark. The Enhedslisten does not believe that children should be prevented from living with their father and mother in Denmark in order to limit immigration, and we have always opposed the integration assessment, which over the years has been quite hard-handed and cut off many children from coming to Denmark. It is, of course, gratifying that integration standards are now being abolished, but we are afraid that the new rule on a three-month limit for applying for family reunification is too narrow. Let's take a Thai woman who chooses to marry a Danish man. After all, she may have many good reasons to leave her child in Thailand at first. Maybe she's insecure about her relationship or life in a foreign continent. If I were to move to Australia, I think I might also consider bringing my children with me a little, if they were that age, they might not want to go under any circumstances, but it would certainly be a question of whether they could be replanted into a foreign continent. Perhaps the child is finishing a school year. Perhaps at the time of the mother's refugee, the child is surrounded by several carers, resource persons, a father, an aunt, a grandmother, but that situation can change for various reasons, for example. death. There may actually be many good reasons why this Thai woman hesitates and waits to tear up her child with a mess and move the child to Denmark. The draft law states that very specific reasons must be given before the three-month rule is waived. Our experience, therefore, in all kindness, is that the wording is quite special for a tiny, tiny needle eye for absolute exceptions. In other words, the bill makes it difficult to have your child brought together in Denmark after the expiry of the three-month period. The draft law consists of two main elements: the abolition of the requirement for integration and the introduction of the short three-month period and a transitional regime. The first part is based on an agreement between Parliament's tighter parties from February this year, an agreement that Enhedslisten is not part of. The second part of the draft law is based on political understanding, which is the basis of which we have a social democratic government from June of this year. That part of the bill will, of course, support Enhedslisten. I assume that every government has a desire to adopt its legislation by the widest possible majority. That would certainly be understandable and wise. However, I would like to say on behalf of the Enhedslisten that it is doubtful whether we can support legislation that operates with the short three-month period. In other words, we cannot give an undertaking to vote in favour of this proposal. That is why the Enhedslisten, as the emerging people we are, will call on the government to split the bill into two so that the February agreement will end up in one part and the transitional arrangement from the understanding paper in the other. And then we will also ask a number of questions and possibly amendments to the draft law. I hope that the Minister may already be able to give an undertaking on this division. I think it is a bad thing that we have seen time and time again under the previous government that two things are put together that can really be divided, and thus do not allow the parties of the Folketing to vote for what they want and against what they disagree with. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114135809	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. I do not see a rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party at first sight, so we move on to the alternative rapporteur, and that is Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114135827	Thank you for the floor. The alternative also supports the Enhedslisten's proposal to split up the proposal if possible. This legislation is mostly a patch solution to a process like Mint and her family experienced in the hands of the Danish family reunification system. Although, of course, we want to help girls like Mint, we also need to emphasise the importance of having a completely new and completely different approach to the family reunification area. The starting point must always be that families and people who love each other should be allowed to live together. Having said that, we are satisfied that the integration requirement is removed, although it is replaced, in our opinion, by a very short three-month application period. An application period may help to encourage parents to decide more quickly which parent the child is to live with. It is generally good that the child is not kept in a long-drawn limbo. In contrast, however, children are at risk of being prevented from living with one of their parents, as the parent of the home Member State must submit a self-employed application for a residence permit. We therefore propose, in line with Save the Children's Hearing Response, that the consequences of the application deadline and the possibility of exemption be closely monitored and organised if it turns out that children are caught. So, on the basis of what is now before us, the alternative supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114140009	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. Then we move on to the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party, and that is Mrs Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114140032	When I was at an annual meeting hall a year ago, which was the last one before this parliamentary election, I made a tough decision. We were in a situation where these mints were discussed, and we were also in a situation where New Citizens were not known by many. We were most famous for what others defined us as. When you want to solve immigration policy from scratch, is it always a balancing act? How big a step should you take on one foot and the other? As far as I am concerned, the Mint case and other cases, such as this, were a clear example of the politicians' patch solutions. So solutions have been put in place because they did not dare to tackle the root of the nettle and solve the problems from the bottom up and here a patch solution that obviously hit the wrong ones without solving the problems that we are really facing. I know that at that time I was in a situation where I thought that we have a party called DF, which will most likely hit me in the head with a lot of people coming to Denmark who will be a problem for our country. And I thought, is that right, and do I have to be underneath it? When I looked at my speech and heard that Martin Henriksen really went out and said that Muslims also live in Thailand, I thought: OK, is that it? And then it came: there will be, and now I can't remember whether it was 1 million or 1 billion Chinese to Denmark if we relax this. I thought: Hm! Then it went a while, and then Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl out, happy as it was, and said, as has also been stated today, that perhaps the Minister should be given the opportunity to grant dispensations in this area. I understand, as I said earlier, that the Left did not want to put themselves in the position of wanting to secure legislation in which a majority in the Folketing supported, because it is about foreign policy and we know how explosive it is. For me it is just logical and common sense that ordinary Danes who meet a foreigner and fall in love should of course be allowed to marry, live in this country and build a family life. The current rules punish the wrong people without solving the problems. Today, when we deal with this bill, it means that Mint and other families in the same situation will have the opportunity to look again on more simple and fairer terms. That also means, and there I fully agree with Mr McMillan-Scott. Mads Fuglede from the Left, that the handful of children that we see, of course, seem to be children who, for a very large proportion, come from countries that we can easily accept. So when the bill is passed, which I hope it will be, hopefully you can come home and live with your family in Denmark, and I am very happy about that. To the extent that there is now information that appears during committee work, that is to say information that this will open up to more or that the children we have been informed in committee about coming here or having the opportunity to look again are causing problems for our society, I would be happy to take the debate there. For me, it is primarily about looking after Denmark, but we should not look after Denmark with solutions that scare away the good and keep the bad in the country, and that is the policy that has been pursued for too long. That is the policy that we sometimes fight with when New Citizens and DF have sword battles, because then it is about who should be allowed to come here and who should not. In connection with this Mint case last year, I also remember that I was in the debate discussing a campaign which was about the fact that now DF had managed to get a lot of non-westerns to travel out. When I looked down in the figures, it turned out that the vast majority of the non-western people who had left were people from countries from which we actually want people from, and those who had become and increasingly came here were those from the Muslim countries. So my hope is that this law and this whole treatment will be an eye-opener for those politicians who want to pursue an alien policy that looks after Denmark, but who, on the other hand, also understands that when we scare the good away and hold onto the bad, we do something wrong. It's time to do things differently, it's time to solve the problems from scratch, and these patch solutions that hit the wrong ones, we have to stop. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114140520	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Søren Søndergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114140524	Thank you. And thanks for the post, those were some interesting considerations and absolute respect for the reflection. I just have one question: if Mint had happened to be a Muslim, would she have been left out on that basis?
ParlaMint-DK_20191114140540	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114140542	Now, for good reasons, I don't know which religion Mint will profess if she confesses to anyone. I relate to the fact that a large proportion of the children who have come into contact with this have a parent that is what the bill deals with who has either Danish or other Nordic citizenship, has a parent who is resident in Denmark or another Nordic country. That is why this is quite a different situation than if, for example, we do. speaks of family reunification of refugees or descendants to people who have come here and have been granted asylum. I do not really know what Mint believes in, but I know that all figures show that the people who come from the countries of East Asia, from South America and from a number of other countries that are currently being punished by this, including ordinary Danes, who marry a spouse from one of the countries that are being punished by this, are totally unproblematic in our country, and they must be able to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114140648	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114140649	Thank you for your answer. I fully acknowledge, of course, that Mrs Pernille Vermund cannot know what Mint has of religion. So let me try asking in another way: would it make any difference if any of these children had a Muslim faith? Or is it, in fact, irrelevant for Denmark what faith or disbelief these children have as long as their parents have a legal residence in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20191114140724	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114140725	Thank you for following up questions. It is certainly not unimportant for Denmark what faith people who come here have all the time that we know that the more Islam fills our society, the less room there will be for freedom and democracy. And in the event of, and this is what the law is designed to prevent, sending your children on a re-educational journey to an Islamic country and having children home, who profess to be completely different from the Danish ones, and if, according to the figures we get from the Ministry, it had proved that the law had actually hit right and hit it here, we would not have voted in favour. But because we can see that the law has hit wrong; because we can see that the law has hit ordinary Danes who marry people who come from cultures where you have shared children... there are not quite as many of them from Muslim countries... so we are relatively confident that this is good for both Denmark and the people who can now be allowed to be together as families.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114140830	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We move on to the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Henrik Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114140838	Thank you for the floor. We have now had a long and thorough debate on Bill L 43, so I am not going to go over all the merits of the bill. It goes back to the previous government and has now been completed, so to speak, by the current government, and we naturally support the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114140907	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114140918	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their speeches and comments on the draft law. I am pleased that there seems to be support for abolishing the requirement for successful integration and introducing new, clear and more transparent rules. And that at the same time it seems that we can give a helping hand to those children who are in trouble because of the rules in force, which are difficult both to explain and to defend, is only good. To briefly recapitulate the main points of the draft law, I would like to mention that the draft law primarily translates into an agreement concluded by the Social Democratic Party in February of this year with the former VLAK government and the Danish People's Party... an agreement that the requirement for successful integration in family reunification cases with children is abolished and replaced by a new three-month application deadline. The application period will apply where the child and the other parent are staying in the home Member State or another country. The application period begins to run when the parent of the child has received the residence permit in Denmark. The draft law also contains rules that take account of, among others, the cases where the parent in this country is a Danish or Nordic citizen and therefore does not need a residence permit, and the cases where the child is born sometime in the future. All of this is described in detail in the bill and is based on a logic and a connection with some other rules of alien law. In exceptional cases, the submission of an application after the expiry of the time limit may then be disregarded. It will have the character of the exception, but it will ensure, among other things. respect for our international obligations, including the best interests of the child. I am convinced that the new system will be easier to understand and manage. I think that is important, because I think that we should strive to make rules in the law on foreigners which citizens can easily adapt to and which do not provide unnecessary bureaucracy. I am also convinced that the new system will ensure that children who are going to have a future in Denmark come here as early as possible. It is in everyone's interest, especially the children's. But when we made the deal in February, we had a hanging party. We did not deal with the families that had already been affected by the rules we wanted to change. This is what we are doing now with the proposed legislative proposal, which also gives a helping hand to the children who have been caught up in the rule of integration. The helping hand is in the transitional arrangement of the bill. These provisions provide, inter alia, that the families concerned will be given three months to submit a new application for family reunification from the date of entry into force of the law. This window applies, although the parent in Denmark has had a residence permit for longer than 3 months, and of course without the children having to be re-evaluated. For good reasons, I cannot guarantee that every child will then also be granted a residence permit; the authorities will have to decide that. But it should not be an integration assessment that stands in the way. I cannot give a precise answer to how many people can make use of the scheme. That depends, among other things. of whether until the entry into force of the law the National Council of Foreigners decides on several refusals in accordance with the rules in force. However, an inventory from last summer showed that this was about. 83 children. In conclusion, the government welcomes the agreement we reached in February. We are also pleased with the transitional rules which, in my view, are common sense. I therefore hope that these children will not be left on the platform so that the new rules can come into force soon, and so that the families who have waited patiently, I would also say, for this bill, will not be held any longer. I look forward to further consideration and will, of course, endeavour to answer questions both here and in committee as best I can. I respect the fact that this is complicated legislation and I hope that we can clarify all the inaccuracies in the work of the committee. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114141257	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114141302	Thank you, Minister. It is no secret that the alternative would like to see a much, much more relaxed family reunification policy. I do not think we can agree to that in the debate on L 43. But when I reviewed the bill with my 14-year-old intern Thor's comment: Isn't 3 months a very, very short time limit for a family who is in such a complex and difficult situation? I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether he sees the possibility of increasing the deadline for applications from three months to six months.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114141347	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114141348	I would like to start by saying that we can write in the law what we want. It could be two months, it could be three, it could be six, it could be twelve, it could be twelve. The fact that it has been established in three months is, after all, an expression of a political compromise and a political desire of the parties that concluded the agreement in February. But I would also like to say that this does not mean that the family has only three months to think about in. I mean, from e.g. the mother submits her application for marriage, until she actually receives the residence permit, it may be a small year. And that's where they have 3 months to search. And then there is the procedure for the child's family reunification, and then when the child gets a residence permit, it triggers a visa which means that they can enter for a further few months. So all in all, from the mother's application for marriage, until the child has to be admitted, up to 2 years old. So now I think there's plenty of time to think. I myself would feel the same way if I went to another country and fell in love with a woman in another country, that then, even when I applied for a residence permit in the other country, I would consider whether some of my children would be included.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114141457	We move on to Mr. Andreas Steenberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114141458	I would like the Minister just to explain why the Social Democratic Party no longer supports the free passage of children aged 0-8 years. I have discussed this many times with the Social Democratic Party, and among other things. Mr. Thomas Jensen has said several times to Midtjyllands Avis that it was very important for the Social Democracy that there was free passage for children up to 8 years of age. So why does the Social Democratic Party not stand by the position of the Social Democratic Party in the past?
ParlaMint-DK_20191114141535	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114141536	To be honest, I think we can argue objectively and properly for both systems. What is the benefit of the scheme contained in this bill is that we are told to the families: If you want to have a child in Denmark, we would like the child to arrive as soon as possible • the child should rather come when it is 2 years old than when it is 9 years old. We all know that it will be easier for a child to get to know the language and the culture before it comes. So I actually think it's easy to argue for this three-month rule. Then it is no secret that we have entered into a political agreement with a number of parties in the Folketing which, of course, we want to stand by.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114141611	Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114141612	Sir. Thomas Jensen referred to it as a victory for the Social Democratic Party that there was free passage for children under the age of 8. And that makes very good sense, because these children can take the entire primary school in Denmark. I would like the Minister for Integration to try to explain what integration problems arise if a 4-year-old comes after six months instead of three months. What's the problem? It might be nice to have some facts. Are there any figures that prove that this four-year-old child has a very big problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20191114141650	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114141651	Now it is not because it has to develop into a history lesson, but back in 2016 and until then, we had a rule that was a six-year rule. It then became an 8-year rule, and the Social Democratic Party was involved in changing from 6 to 8 years. When we think that it makes sense for a 4-year-old to come as soon as possible and not wait until she becomes 8 years old, it is because we believe that it would be beneficial for her to come to a Danish kindergarten, have lunch, swung in the swings, learned something Danish, come to the zoo with her friends and take roots in Danish society - rather when she is 4 years old than when she is 8 years old.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114141731	Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114141732	Now, in my rapporteur's speech, I asked the question of the division of the bill. I did so, of course, because there is something that is part of an agreement that the government, as an opposition party, discussed with the previous government and then concluded now, and then there is a lot that appears on the understanding paper. That's why I thought it might be obvious to divide it. It could also be such an initiative which could, as it were, make the form of cooperation a little better. There is no doubt that the Social Democrats themselves have also experienced it under the previous government, that proposals were made where there were things that drew in different directions, and they had very difficulty in getting the previous government to divide it up. I would therefore just like to repeat the question whether it is not time for us to have a new style here in the Danish Parliament, and whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration cannot take the lead in that style.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114141846	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114141847	In fact, I understand the criticism if apples and pears are mixed up in something that really has nothing to do with each other. However, I think it is actually very natural that when we move from one set of rules to another, we are dealing with both the new set of rules and also some transitional provisions which have to deal with the people who are in trouble. The reason why I myself would be a little sceptical about dividing up the bill, and the reason why I have not tabled two legislative proposals, is that I think it would be a little strange to have two parallel readings: a legislative proposal called the new rules and another legislative proposal called the transition clause to the new rules. What if the first is rejected and the second is adopted? It's gonna be a little baroque. So if we really have to separate what was agreed in February and what was agreed in connection with the understanding paper, I think the most logical thing would be to adopt the new rules first, third-read it, and when they have entered into force, then to start a new consultation period and a new parliamentary treatment of some transitional provisions, and then we are deep into the new year. I hope that, after all, a majority in the Folketing will be able to support this bill, which can come into force on 1 January, because there are some families that I think have been caught up in, and for which we politicians have a responsibility, so I hope that we will be able to clean up after ourselves as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114142000	Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114142001	That is a rather formal argument, because it is easy to run the procedure in parallel, and then the Social Democrats and the Left, and whoever else, can write in their report's contribution that their support for the transitional system is based on the adoption of the new system and then we can run it at the same time without any delay. If a majority were to be miraculously opposed to the permanent system, then the transitional system would also be voted down. It is clear that there would then be a majority against it, among other things. with the support of the Party of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. So that is again what we saw under the previous government in trying to find all sorts of strange reasons not to allow the parties of the Folketing to express to the public in a free vote what they think, and I think that is strange.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114142057	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114142058	I would like to start by saying that I cannot deny that it is technically possible to divide it up. Well, it's not a technical question. But I don't think it's just all sorts of justifications. I would then have a little difficulty in discussing a legislative proposal here which deals with the transitional provisions for some rules that we do not even know, because we do not know them until they are adopted. There may also be new changes in them until the third reading. So I think that would be a little baroque situation to end up in. I think it would be pure and fair to adopt the new rules first and then allow them to enter into force and then have a second reading. It is just my impression that here we can broadly agree on both new rules and some reasonable transitional provisions.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114142140	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191114142156	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 15 November 2019 at 6 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
