ParlaMint-DK_20190315100056	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Tax Minister (Karsten Lauritzen): Bill no. L 207 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law amending the Corporate Tax Act and various other laws. The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Minister for Nordic Cooperation has informed me that she wishes to do so in accordance with Article 19 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to give the Folketing a written statement on Nordic co-operation. R 13). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on Tuesday 26 March 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315100208	The debate is open. Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315100222	Thank you. Sounds from the Palace Square Yes, I am also fond of my bike, which we can hear in the background. The draft law that we are going to deal with here is about something quite different, unless inmates in the country's prisons flee by bicycle, and I do not think there are so many examples of that yet. The bill has two elements, and both are in continuation of the multi-year agreement for the Criminal Welfare Economy for 2018 and 2019, of which the Social Democracy is part. The first part is about punishment for escape and assistance to escape from closed prisons and detention houses, and this comes in the wake of several incidents where persons in the custody of the Criminal Services have managed to escape. It is therefore an attack on our community of law when convicted criminals do not serve the punishment they must take for their atrocities and, above all, it creates enormous insecurity when there are criminals who succeed in fleeing our prisons and institutions, and we must act on that. No one can disagree with that. In the draft law there is an expectation that sharpened punishment will result in fewer escape attempts. In general, I have my doubts as to whether this more severe punishment thing will keep everyone from escaping. I doubt that they are sitting and making that impact assessment, because most people probably expect them to succeed in fleeing, but if anyone is wondering about this, we on the part of the Social Democrats think it is a good thing that it is a deterrent. There must be severe penalties when you choose to commit a violent assault on our community of law, but what we just have to bear in mind is that punishment cannot stand alone, even in this case, and that is why I would also like to ask the Minister of Justice for an explanation of the manning situation in prisons. This is something we are constantly discussing, and right now and here there is particular reason to focus on it, because, in addition to the working environment, it is also about maintaining the level of safety in prisons, and then it is also necessary to check the procedures in all prisons, so that we avoid these prisons, as there has been an increase in recent years. So it's just to make it clear that we can't count on sharpened penalties alone to correct the statistics here. We support the proposal here. The second part of the bill is about giving the Department of Criminal Welfare the opportunity to investigate certain persons in connection with transport without a court order. It is about persons who, for example, are to serve in court psychiatric services after the sentence, or persons in custody who are to be admitted to mental examinations. It is therefore also a sensible move, because of course the judicial services must have the necessary powers to deal with the new tasks which have previously been assigned to the police. This will increase the safety of both staff and other inmates, which is why we can also vote in favour of this part. So, overall, the Social Democratic Party supports the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315100553	Thank you. There are no comments, and that is why we move on to Mr. Peter Kofod, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315100606	Thank you. The government has put forward this proposal with two different elements in it, and both are positive. I would like to start by examining the proposal. Firstly, with the proposal, the government proposes that the penalty be tightened up in connection with escape or escape from a prison or detention centre, and that the penalty be increased from, in the first case, 30 days as it is now, to 4 months. This is, in fact, very positive, because it must never be the case that you simply run away and that you try to evade the punishment that society has given you, or that you do not accept the measures that have been made when you are going to be in prison or in a detention house. Because then, of course, you have to be there, and then you have to stay there until you are told otherwise, and then it is no use running or running away. That is why it is really positive that the government is acting on this. Not very long ago there was a much-mentioned escape from a prison here in the metropolitan area, and I think it was an eye-opener for a great many of us, partly because the sanctions were not strict enough, if you run off that is one thing, and partly because security is in some cases simply not good enough in our prisons and detention houses. The last problem we will hardly solve by increasing the penalty, but we will solve that by adding more staff to the Criminal Services, which is why I am also pleased that we have decided, together with the government, to start a training institution for prison officers in western Denmark in the 2019 Finance Act. We have a hope that it will have the same effect as it has had on police training, so that we will have the opportunity to recruit some of the staff we urgently need. We have that in both the Department of Justice and indeed in the police, so we hope it will have a beneficial effect. So that part of the proposal with the penalty we are fully in favour of obviously needs to be tightened up. The second part is for us to see a purely expedition case, because it is all about the same opportunities that police staff have had so far with transport tasks for people who have to be moved from point A to point B, so it is also about young people or mentally ill people, and we think it is quite reasonable that the staff of the Department of Police have an opportunity, of course, to examine the people who are moving around, as the police have had. So we see no problem in the proposal as it stands and can warmly support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315100840	Thank you, sir. Peter Kofod. Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315100851	Thank you. A few years ago I visited a prison in the United States, and whoever was the prison director was able to boast that no one had actually escaped from prison. One should really be very happy about that, but I am not quite sure that it is so optimal, because it means simply locking people up in circumstances that make them not nice to get out when they go out. So we can easily make a hundred percent escape-proof prisons, but I don't think that's the way we're going. We have to tighten up in other ways with the individual escapes that we have at home, and we do so, among other things. with this proposal. It is no secret that the punishment for fleeing a prison is far too small a 30-day prison and it is not something that has any preventive effect at all. We are raising it with the proposal here to four months imprisonment, and I must say that this applies to closed prisons, it applies to detention houses, it applies to transport situations, and that applies to what is called accompanied exit. In any case, it should have a more preventive effect than the 30 days. The second part of the proposal is also a natural consequence of the change in the working conditions of police and criminal services. Of course, the staff of the Department of Justice should be given the opportunity to visit, etc. To the people they're about to move on. I shall not repeat the proposal in any further detail. This has been done by previous speakers and I can say that the Left can fully support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315101038	Thank you. Sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315101051	It is a serious matter when an inmate flees a prison and thus does not endure the sentence he has been given, just as it is of course also very serious to help an inmate escape. We in the Enhedslist fully agree with that. Fortunately, it is also very rare for an inmate to succeed in escaping from a closed prison. Of course, that is not going to happen. But it's important to remember in this debate that this is something that happens very rarely, also in view of the fact that this bill comes on the basis of the prison escape from Nyborg Arrest in 2018. Of course, when it happens every once in a while, it is important to see how we can avoid this with people fleeing a prison. Unfortunately, we do not believe that this proposal is the right solution to prevent inmates from fleeing. When an inmate has made a decision to flee, the penalty for fleeing is most likely not in his/her deliberations, and the proposal here will therefore not have a preventive effect. We therefore fully agree with the assumption of the Prison Association that most escape attempts are made on the basis of private circumstances in which there are no major impact assessments. Instead, we must ensure that there are enough staff in the prisons, so that there is enough time and resources for the staff and that they keep in contact with the inmates so that we can ensure that escape attempts will be discovered. In addition, we also believe, in the case of higher standards, that it will, of course, also have a very positive effect on rehabilitation and on the work of criminal services in prisons. It is also worth noting in the hearings that the Court of Justice Association and the Prison Association do not believe that raising the level of imprisonment that is proposed here in the bill will have any effect. The second half of the bill is to give the Minister for Justice the power to lay down detailed rules for the investigation of arrests in connection with transport, and this must then be done without a warrant. One can say that, of course, the competences of the police are only given to the Department of Justice today, but on the part of the Enhedslisten, we have a fundamental problem with the fact that there is a lot in the area of justice that is left to the Ministry of Justice rather than to the Danish Parliament that it is the framework for the work, just as we generally have a concern and see a problem in conducting investigations without a warrant, as everything else is a weakening of the individual's legal certainty to go down that road. That is a legal problem. Overall, it will be the case that Enhedslisten is negatively disposed towards this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315101356	Sir. Peter Kofod, Danish People's Party, just made a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315101402	Thank you for that, President. I was just curious about the last part of the rapporteur's speech, which was about the powers that the police have today, and it is then in relation to the transport task that has then been transferred to criminal justice. Because I didn't really know whether it was a fundamental opposition to having the people you work with, of course, some of these people can be potentially dangerous to our employees, and that's what Enhedslisten has to admit. So, I just want to hear Mr. Knox. Rune Lund, if it is true that this is a problem because it is the criminal services employees who have to do it rather than the police employees who do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315101439	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315101440	It is rather a problem because it is a power that is passed on to the Ministry of Justice and because it is not a framework that is laid down in the Folketing. That's one thing. The second point is that it is not what should be said to be the harmonisation between the criminal services and the police, which is, as it were, the problem; it is more that it happens without a warrant that is the problem. So that is the common problem. The more you walk away from the fact that there should be no warrant, and the more you move on to that, for example. investigations can be carried out without a court order, the more it is all the other equal a weakening of the guarantees of legal certainty that citizens in our society have also the citizens who have committed crime and who are therefore inmates.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315101525	Sir. Peter Kofod.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315101526	That was before the police, but now it's the department that has to move a person from point A to point B, a person who may be suspected of having something on him that, in this situation, may be harmful to the employees. Does Enhedslisten really think that, in this situation, a court order is needed to move a person from point A to point B? Is that how I'm supposed to understand it?
ParlaMint-DK_20190315101552	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315101553	In any case, we would like to have a more detailed discussion about the fact that we are merely extending the powers that the police have today to the staff of the criminal services, when we could discuss whether it is sensible today that there is simply an automatism in the fact that we can investigate people without a warrant. It is clear that if there is a specific danger, and this can be done, people must of course be examined, but one must be aware that everything else equal is a weakening of legal certainty, that there should not be a court order before an arrestee is investigated.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315101628	Thank you. Then it's mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315101630	[Sound emission]... ask in relation to the last one that is being asked, because it actually shakes me a little. Do I understand correctly that the Enhedslisten believes that a warrant should be required every time the Department of Criminal Justice wants to move an inmate from one place to another, that is, every time he goes to the doctor or dentist, we need a warrant first, and does Enhedslisten have any overview of what work this will entail for the police and for the judicial system, by the way?
ParlaMint-DK_20190315101701	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315101702	It is based on two things. It is based on the fact that we find it problematic that the guidelines should be laid down in the Ministry of Justice, and this is based on the fact that when we extend the use of a lack of a warrant to other groups, we think it is appropriate to look at whether this is a sensible way to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315101718	Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315101719	The rapporteur says that it is relevant to look into this. No, we're gonna have to go deeper. Does Enhedslisten want every time the D.C. has to get a man to the dentist, they first have to go that way, that is, through the city court, and get a warrant?
ParlaMint-DK_20190315101732	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315101733	Now we have a first reading here in the Danish Parliament and we can see that there is a bill that will give an authorisation for the Minister of Justice to lay down rules where the rules will not be laid down in the Danish Parliament. We think this is a problem of principle and it is a problem of general principle which we often see in the area of justice. In relation to the extension of the possibility of investigating detainees without a warrant, at least this is something we would like to discuss further in order to determine our final position on it. However, by extending the possibility of investigating people without a court order, basically everything else is just a legal problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315101816	Thank you. Then we move on to Mrs Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315101826	Thank you. After all, it is difficult not to start by getting a little carried away by the debate that has been initiated by the previous speaker. To the Enhedslisten, I would say: take it from a friend who also cares about legal certainty and who sometimes, I think, because the Minister of Justice in a slightly annoying way insists on court orders in all kinds of contexts. Well, insisting on a court order in this context is, I wouldn't say crazy, but it's certainly very strange. Now I just had occasion to consult with the Minister of Justice about it. As I understand it, this is an authorisation which the Department of Criminal Services already has in relation to keeping track of whether the inmates carry weapons in prisons. That is to say, they may, in other words, search inmates in prisons. Now they will have a new task in the Department of Justice, namely to transport the same people, for example. from prisons to prisons or from courthouses to prisons. And with the new task comes the power which they already have to ensure that the people they transport do not carry a knife or razor or worse weapons. So if we wanted to have a problem with the fact that the Department of Criminal Services has the authority to search prisoners and thinks that it requires a court order, then we must also take the view that every time we find ourselves in a dangerous situation in prison and suspect that a prisoner may be carrying a weapon, we must also take the view that it is necessary to search the person, for example. to protect yourself or a colleague, just ask a judge first. I think that is putting our prison officers in a completely insane theoretical danger, which I certainly do not want to be involved in. But that's the way things are. For the second part of the bill, it is the case that prison sentences are supposed to be in prison and not escape from prison. Unfortunately, when this happens, it must be punished, and it should also be harder than it is today. Various former rapporteurs have mentioned what the effect of such a punishment is. The Social Democrat rapporteur spoke of impact assessments, sitting in prison and making an impact assessment: is it now worth fleeing? I believe that the rapporteur is right to say that it will not necessarily lead to fewer attempts to escape, but I also believe that we agree that this is a matter of total justice, and it is so offensive to the sense of justice when a convicted criminal succeeds in avoiding his or her punishment. It is with that motive that we support the bill. Then I'll get back to this arrest warrant thing again. It is, of course, a token of the fact that we are releasing much-needed resources to the police. We are freeing them from a task they have had up to now and transferring it to the Department of Justice, and, when you do so, it is of course perfectly reasonable that they should also be given the powers that belong so that we can do so in a safe and sound way. The Liberal Alliance, of course, supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315102201	Thank you. Sir. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315102208	It is essential to make it clear that when you have received a judgment and are serving it, it is quite unacceptable and unacceptable to flee. That's the way it has to be. Then there may be different reasons for doing so, and we can discuss whether it helps to sharpen the penalty • whether it will prevent people from doing so. But as a starting point, I have to say that it makes sense to consider whether this could have a preventive effect. There is not necessarily an empire about it, as I do not understand it either, when I read the hearing answers, but I would not deny that we could support it, even though, as a starting point in the alternative, we are against and do not believe in punishment as something that actually prevents people from committing crime, which it must be said to be escaping from a prison. With regard to the increase from 30 days to 4 months, I do not know whether that is what is doing either. But we'll go curiously to it. As a starting point, we are against that part, but let us look at it in committee. Generally speaking, in relation to the proposal, as was also mentioned by a former rapporteur, an agreement was reached in autumn 2017 on the economy of criminal justice, and we subsequently joined it in the alternative. This also means that we have to look with open eyes at the tasks that are being transferred from the police to precisely the criminal services how to solve them in the best possible way. And if that means that, in relation to the transports here, there must be an authorisation, in which case there will not be a court order when the prisoners are moved, then we will again go to it curiously, because, as the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, I think it was, said before, we are very concerned about obtaining a court order, in relation to political areas such as what is being debated here. But here, too, I think it seems violent to demand it every time it happens. I am not an expert in this area, but I will, simply because one usually has to have a court order for almost everything in the field of justice, of course just examine it. But I think it makes sense not to ask for it. So we are actually reasonably confident about that part of the proposal. We must ensure, when we have said yes to the economy, that the powers of the employees who then have to carry out the tasks are, in fact, also sensible and not too rigid. So it might be that you were out to perhaps split up the proposal. Or maybe we find out we're for everything. We have not yet taken a position, and we will find out in the course of the committee's proceedings.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315102441	Thank you, sir. René Gade. Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315102448	Thank you for that, President. Regardless of party color, we can all agree that it is a problem when some succeed in fleeing. The question is just what is wise to do about it, and then you can ask the professionals in this area. And what do they say? The Legal Policy Association has written to us in the hearing answer: "It is well-known crime knowledge that the proposed punishments have no, or only a negative, crime prevention effect. ▪ The Prison Association writes that escape takes place on the basis of private circumstances where there are no immediate impact assessments. That is why I have a very obvious question for the Minister: what kind of professionals are they, what kind of knowledge and research is this bill based on? And the Minister must be able to give a good answer if he is to convince the Radical Left that we should be for that part. Otherwise, I would suggest that we split up the bill, because the second part, which the rapporteurs before me have also devoted a great deal of time to discussing, namely the one concerning transport, is, after all, an end to the agreement that has been made on the economy of criminal justice, and we in the Radical Left have endorsed it. So the proposal must be split up so that we can vote for one part and not for the other. But I think the Minister should first have a fair chance to answer what kind of knowledge and what kind of professionals you base it on.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315102628	Thank you. There are no comments. Sir. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315102638	Escape-proof prisons and transports are, of course, something that could possibly be done, but the dramatic consequences of such a virtually top-safe society are a price we will not pay. Then we can ask: Will a higher penalty help the number of escapes? There's no sign of that. The hearings explain that for this very group of inmates there will be no apparent link between action and punishment. This is precisely described by both the Judicial Union and the Prisons Association, who do not believe that higher penalties for this particular group of people will have any effect. And then, frankly, I think that the Folketing should stick to adopting laws that work and not just adopt something again, because you think you will like to show that you are acting after all, even if that action has no effect. SF would like to see a split of the bill so that we can deal with the two different things separately.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315102739	Thank you. Then it's mr. Nase Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315102748	90 is the number of people who fled last year while they were in the custody of the Criminal Services, and that is average 2 per week. That is a figure that we should not accept. That's why it's important that we work hard to do something about this problem. An absolutely fundamental condition for us to have a functioning constitutional state is that we can keep track of the people we, as a society, have agreed to detention. Thinking of criminals must never weigh more heavily than consideration of law and order and the sense of justice. If people have been convicted, they have already shown that they do not respect the rules of society. That is why they have been in prison and that is why we must keep an eye on them while they are in custody. That is why, in the Conservative People's Party, we also believe that it is misunderstood to take greater account of the privacy of convicted criminals than of the security of law-abiding citizens. Because that is what happens when we do not have a prisoner transport control that is tight enough. We run the risk of dangerous criminals escaping and endangering ordinary citizens. In addition, it is also important that it should have sufficiently serious consequences when trying to escape the long arm of the law. We therefore believe that it is only right that we increase the penalty for escape attempts or help to do so. In short, we must ensure that there is proper control in prison transport and we must ensure that the prisoners think twice before they try to escape. That is why we in the Conservative People's Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315102933	Thank you, sir. Nase Khader. And then it's the Justice Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315102940	Thank you for that, and thank you to the rapporteurs for the largely positive reception of the draft law. It is a serious crime to escape from a closed prison or a detention centre or in connection with a accompanied exit. Unfortunately, we have seen a number of examples of this in recent times. We saw it, among other things. In August 2018, an inmate escaped from Vestre Prison. Today, a person fleeing from arrest or imprisonment will, as a starting point, receive a prison sentence of 30 days in prison for the first time. The same is true of those who, for example, are in favour of the creation of the single market. helps an inmate to escape. And it's just too low. The current level of penalties does not in any way reflect the gravity of the offence. When an inmate succeeds in escaping, the police, criminal services and other authorities need to react urgently in order to quickly apprehend the person concerned again and avoid serious consequences in the form of, for example: new crime. This often leads to a high consumption of resources and manpower. This is an infringement which should have appreciable consequences, and that is why the penalty must be lifted. It is therefore proposed that the level of punishment for escape from closed prisons and detention centres and for transport or accompanied exit in first cases should, as a rule, be raised to 4 months' unconditional prison sentence. The proposal will also include people who help an inmate escape. This is a significant increase in the level of punishment, which aims to limit the number of escapes and attempts to escape. The second part of the bill concerns the acquisition by the Department of Criminal Services of police detention transports, which are part of the multi-year agreement for criminal services. The purpose of this part of the bill is to allow the staff of the Department of Justice to search all the groups of persons they will be transporting in the future. That is what we are proposing for reasons of order and security, so that, for example, the staff of the Department of Justice. ensure that the persons to be transported are not in possession of dangerous articles. It is simply not safe to transport the persons concerned if they cannot be searched. In those words, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their speeches and look forward to further consideration.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315103150	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. There are questions, first from Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315103157	What kind of professionals is the Minister basing the sentence on?
ParlaMint-DK_20190315103204	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315103206	I'm not basing it on any professionals at all. I am basing it on an opinion that it is on the limit to being a joke that you can flee a closed prison, a jailhouse or a accompanied exit, with the resources that it brings with it, without having a higher consequence than 30 days. It simply needs a longer period of time. Then we all have to hope that it will make people think about it, if nothing else it will at least have a more tangible effect. It's politics.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315103232	Sir. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315103235	That was a very, very clear answer from the Minister, and perhaps that is why, like the Radical Left, we end up having difficulty voting for it because we want the experts to join us. However, I clearly understand the political signal and, basically, I agree that it is absolutely reprehensible when you do so. Perhaps we would then look more closely at why it is possible for them to flee, and the Minister will certainly do so. But could it be possible to divide the proposal? I missed that in the Minister's speech if he said anything about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315103301	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315103303	I didn't say anything about that. That's something you have to discuss. I feel quite relaxed about that, and that must be discussed in the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315103312	Thank you, Minister. Then no one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315103326	The debate is open. Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315103343	Thank you. The proposal here concerns the acquisition of television surveillance and the extension of access to television surveillance by the police. If this happens, and neither of us hope that Denmark will again be subjected to a terrorist attack or other serious crimes, then the police and PET must have the necessary powers, both to maintain security, but also to be able to identify the perpetrators quickly and prevent further attacks. This must be done quickly and effectively. But it is also important that we find the right balance. As in all other discussions on technology, we must also have a thorough balance of advantages and disadvantages in this case. In the social democracy we dare to use technological development for the benefit of the whole of society. We're not so worried about using new methods. At the same time, it is also important that citizens continue to be able to move freely without feeling that the state is watching them in everything they are doing. So it is about security on the one hand and legal certainty on the other, as with so many other issues we are discussing in the legal field. On the one hand, the draft law sets out to give the police and PET the necessary conditions to take over and use television surveillance by other authorities and private individuals in particularly serious situations, and on the other hand, the use of television surveillance by private individuals must be further specified in the law. Both are something that we in the Social Democratic Party can support, and we can do so because we know that television surveillance is one of the most effective tools the police can use when it comes to quickly finding a perpetrator. At the same time, it also has a preventive effect on the prevention of attacks. However, it is of course important that we find this balance where we can both streamline the work of the police and PET, but where the Danish citizens should not feel monitored, and therefore we also think it is reasonable that the use of surveillance should be tested in the courts. Social democracy has already proposed that the police should have more plate scanners, primarily because it is a very, very effective tool to unravel foreign thieves and to solve other forms of organised crime. In addition, several license plate scanners will also be able to be used in the very serious situations I have outlined. We in the Social Democratic Party can well follow the concerns about mass surveillance, and we obviously do not want a city image where there are surveillance cameras hanging on every corner of the street. We can then discuss whether that does not already happen today, but we know that television surveillance is therefore a tool that can prevent innocent people from ending up as victims of serious crimes. That's why I have to tell you that we can support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315103650	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Kofod, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315103705	We are in the Danish People's Party's great supporters of camera surveillance. We think it is good that people can feel comfortable walking on the streets, and if they are exposed to crime, it gives the police the best opportunities to find those responsible and bring them to justice. That's basically good. Why do I say that? I say this because I know that one more frightened rapporteur after another will, during this debate, tread on this fine platform and say that we must remember the balance, that we must remember to protect people's privacy, that we must not go too far and what else we can do. Anyway, I've never had any privacy on my way down Strøget, I have to admit that. I think it's fine when I walk down the street, that I know that there's an eye being kept on, so that if I or someone I care about gets exposed to something that's terrible, the police have some opportunities to take action against it. I don't feel offended by that, I don't feel sorry, I feel comfortable with that, and it's good. That is why I think it is positive that at least some of these things could draw in the direction of more in the government's proposals. Let me start with the most obvious, and it is, of course, that in these extraordinary situations, the police are given the opportunity to take over private camera surveillance without a warrant. That's fine, because it's gonna hit, you might say, the worst cases. In other words, when it is written in the proposal that these are exceptional situations, they will be cases of terrorism. And if there is something that we in Denmark have learned a great deal from, it is the very, very terrible and tragic situation at Krudtønden and in Krystalgade some years ago, which has also been the starting point for some learning points about how the police should deal with these extraordinary terrorist situations. That's why it's a good thing that the government is suggesting that the police can have some opportunities to use this surveillance and take over private surveillance. It is good that the police can announce that private people can use surveillance more extensively than they have been able to do today. However, I am not hoping that it will be used very much in the way in which the draft law has been put together. I think it is fine to give some more opportunities to store it for more than 30 days, as is the case today. That's okay, too. I also note that over the last 31⁄2 years we have done a great deal of things that are moving in the right direction in relation to monitoring in general. Let me mention the camera pool that we have been setting off on the Finance Act for a few years now. I think it has been a very great success, even though it has been a small pool. I myself live in a town where we have enjoyed this pool very much, because it has meant that in a street where there has been regular trouble and insecurity in the night life, we have had the opportunity to get the police to monitor the street. It has created calm, and it has had an effect very, very fast. And of course there are many of us who are happy that we can travel at all times in the city without fear. I think we should learn from the best in this field, and the best in this field are big cities out in Europe, especially you might want to look at Britain, where you use this much more systematically than you do in Denmark. Denmark is a major other country, fortunately. We have less crime compared to many other countries, but it is a development that we must be very concerned about. It is a major proposal that the government has put forward, and that is why I think it is right that we should be very thorough in dealing with it in the Committee on Legal Affairs, because it is complicated matter. But as a starting point, we are very positive about the elements that are drawing in the direction of better opportunities for the police to use this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315104123	Thank you. There are no comments. Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315104135	Thank you. I hardly dare read the first word of my speech. It says 'balance sheet', but nevertheless I would like to say now that I think the proposal is an excellent expression of the balance that we have in Denmark and that we are trying to maintain, at least if it is on the left. We do not want a camera strapped to every corner of the street, we do not want Chinese conditions where you can recognize the faces of every person walking on the street, even if it does not hurt directly. But, on the other hand, we want to make use of the technology and of the cameras where they can have an anti-crime effect, and that is what the proposal here expresses, an excellent balance between the two considerations. Yes, this is done by various measures. My colleagues have referred to them in this way, but in other words, the first step is that, in the extraordinary, if I may say so, catastrophic, situations which we saw at Nørrebro a few years ago, yes, the police should not have any difficulty in getting hold of those cameras that may be of interest. The police can also go in and take over them, and this can be done without a court order, or on the basis of a court order, but, as you know, if there is a great deal of urgency, it can be brought to court later. In addition, the proposal has another good element, namely to clarify where private individuals may be allowed to set up cameras, where business companies may be allowed and which areas they may be allowed to cover, because I should like to say that we have a television watching law that is too advanced. It certainly takes your husband or woman to understand it as it is there. Our legislative proposal is a clarification in this area, a clarification of the television watching law that exists, so that, after all, it makes it a little easier to deal with for people. Finally, it will be possible for individuals to monitor, for example, religious buildings and the like. The rule that the police may only keep these recordings for 30 days may be suspended if necessary on the basis of the investigation, i.e. where a notification has been filed and whoever has access to the camera is on holiday or cannot be found or anything like that. Then it is not intended that after 30 days we should not be able to use the proof at all which could be obtained later. So summa summarum I dare say that it is a sensible balance between the various considerations and a clarification of the TV monitoring law. The Left can fully support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315104421	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315104434	The purpose of this bill is to allow the police to take over television surveillance by other authorities and private individuals in some so-called exceptional situations in order to prevent particularly serious crimes. The bill contains a new provision in the Code of Criminal Procedure which allows the police to do so, and the bill is also part of the Justice and Justice Department's action against shoplifting and part of a so-called debureaucratisation of television surveillance at private shops. The draft law also extends the retention of personal data in cases where criminal offences have been notified. This has also been mentioned by other rapporteurs. The IT-Politics Association and the Institute for Human Rights are very critical and express concern about whether it is at odds with Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights on Privacy. It is the case that last April a majority in the Folketing decided to extend the use of television and video surveillance, namely at L 205, and now there will be a legislative proposal which will further extend the monitoring framework. Recordings from surveillance cameras can of course be an excellent tool for solving crimes, and they can, by their mere presence, hold, for example. shoplifters from committing theft, at least in the store where the camera is sitting. The fact that crime then moves elsewhere is something that we, as legal rapporteurs, know very easily can happen. This bill does not seem to be aimed at the investigation, but must therefore be used to prevent a criminal act, for example. a terrorist attack or a gang fight. That is, of course, the case, and it is my clear conviction that these are crimes that we all want to help prevent and combat. However, it is unclear in the draft law whether there should be a reasonable suspicion on the part of the police before they can obtain this information, and one thing that, at least from Enhedslisten's side, is questionable in the draft law is that this bill also extends the circle of those who can use television and video surveillance, and that worries us. From Enhedslisten's point of view, cities are already patched up with surveillance cameras, and the fact that we as citizens are being admitted where we go and stand is an interference in privacy. We should also note that the law in force already allows the police to have footage of shopkeepers, and there will be footage in safe hands, and the police can choose to share the recordings with others, including with the public in particular cases. In the Enhedslisten, we share the concerns of the Institute for Human Rights and the IT-Politic Association, and we believe that the draft law can be at odds with Article 8 of the Human Rights Convention on the right to privacy, because the bill will mean more monitoring and because the bill extends the limit on how long this monitoring can be stored, how long personal data can be stored. Against this background, Enhedslisten is not in favour of the bill as it stands, and we should welcome it from the SF and say that SF has the same attitude towards the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315104809	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then it's Mrs. Christina Egelund, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315104830	I really do make honest and clear political speech from this platform, and we received it from the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Thank you. For Mr. Peter Kofod declared something that sounds almost like love for television surveillance, and I think that is liberating honestly. I don't feel that way. I think we should be allowed to live a free private life without the authorities watching every step we take. And when the authorities are allowed to monitor us, there must be a good reason for this, and it must serve a legitimate purpose. In LA, we have made the balance that what might be called unbridled monitoring of the lives of law-abiding citizens is something we say no to. However, it is a matter of monitoring specific conditions where there is a reasonable suspicion that something dangerous is about to roll out, and there, for our sake, we must monitor from wall to wall, from ceiling to floor, if it can prevent something as terrible as a terrorist attack or arson or anything like that from happening. And I think that this bill hits that balance very precisely. Is this going too far? It has, of course, filled a part of the debate, as it always does, when additional powers are given to the authorities in this area. And there it has almost sounded like the police with this proposal in their hands in the future can take over all private surveillance and lie on a nap behind every hedge and keep an eye on what each of us is doing. But of course that is not the case. In fact, I think that the conditions under which the police can take over television surveillance are rather well fenced in with the conditions set out: firstly, there must be the prevention of a very serious crime and, therefore, not small things; it must really be up to the serious end. Secondly, it must also be the case that the crime to be prevented is of a nature which would endanger the lives of people or significant social values. Thirdly, if we are to be allowed to go in and take over this television surveillance, it must be for the purpose of preventing such an incident from happening. And fourthly, we've made sure it's been important for the Liberal Alliance that when you have to have this authority to go in and take over a stakeout, you have to have a warrant for it. It's not always possible to do that before you take it over, because sometimes in this type of situation, for example. If it is a terrorist attack to be prevented, there must be the possibility that we can act quickly. And in these cases, as in all sorts of other circumstances, when you have to obtain a court order, you have the opportunity to do so, up to 24 hours after taking action. In this time we are discussing monitoring really, very much: where do the surfaces go? Where's the limit? For what purposes should we use surveillance? And there are certain conditions in which the fact that you can monitor and digitise at all gives the authorities really, really good tools in order to prevent crime. Where's the limit? That is where I think we are hitting the nuance completely by this bill. And we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315105155	Thank you. Sir. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315105159	In the alternative, we are in favour of the proposal as a starting point, but a really good piece of work has been done, because I think that, as far as the balance is concerned, there is something like Mr Giscard d'Estaing's report. Peter Kofod mentioned something has happened over the last few years in Danish politics. I was at the digital summit yesterday, when the government presented its strategy for artificial intelligence, and television surveillance and television transmissions are in themselves an old phenomenon, but the data flows that we merge are what this is ultimately about. This is the fear that some of us may have • What happens to the data if you merge them in a lot of ways, so you have a complete picture of what all people eventually do in Denmark? I don't think it's going to be that way at all, but it's the scare scenario we see anywhere else in the world. That is why we stand firm, including on the part of those organisations which uphold legal certainty and human rights. You stick to it, even in Denmark, when we discuss this, i.e. the very rigid approaches to what is actually right and fair when we discuss this. Then we just have a society in Denmark where there is much more confidence and reason for the government to want us all the best and to work under orderly conditions. That is why we must always remember, when I say that I am adversely disposed towards the proposal, to look at it in the eyes of those who do not see Chinese conditions, Saudi Arabian conditions, the situation of all sorts of other countries. Well, that's not what we're discussing here. At the digital summit yesterday I saw that all ministers and all experts spent almost all their time talking about something that we in the Alternative have dreamed of for at least three years, perhaps even before I even became part of it, namely that we wanted to talk about Denmark as a place where ethics, morality, Danish values were paramount when we talk about data and digitalisation. That was the foundation of the whole conversation yesterday, all day long, and that's because that's what we can do in Denmark. So when we make legislation here that's what I'm going to be curious about in committee... there's just so much work done here to make a balanced approach that we're actually helping the police to secure our society in a way that doesn't harm citizens in a way that we can't defend in the Alternative, that is, that our personal freedom is taken away from us? We'll see about that. If the work is really done so well, then we will vote in favour. What I see so far seems to me to be on the edge, but it has been tried to define it and say that it is by rabid conditions, and it is by a penalty of 6+ years when you want to go in and use it here. There are many sensible elements in it. Finally, I want to say something just to put the perspective when we discuss these things. Because it is often the case, when there is a media debate on what follows, that there is a block that simply says that this is furiously destructive and that it erodes our entire society, and the other block says that relax now. You can get the perspective on our social media. Already today, without any cameras being set up at all, I can with talented people around me go in and find out how you all feel, how you are, what observations and what observances you have, by braiding your data from Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, all sorts of other places, at a much, much more intimate level than what we can with television surveillance. This is just a perspective that must be taken into account when you consistently say no, because there is television surveillance in the headline. I am one of those who may sometimes want to say consistently no when there is television surveillance in the headline, but we must be careful about that. So I'll take sir. Peter Kofod's words and the words of the Liberal Alliance, but to that extent Mr. Rune Lund's words are from the Enhedslisten, because I am equally sceptical about the proposal. But let's look at it curiously and see if the government has really committed a swing that you can say yes to in this area. I'm skeptical about it, but let's also look at our own way of dealing with social media, own data sharing, before we only look at the government and then say they're making a move. We have a private responsibility to secure our own data and the way we act, and that focus is sometimes very, very distracted by those who criticise the legislators in here. I think that is important to take into account. As a starting point, the alternative is a negative one, but it is curious about the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315105625	Sir. Peter Kofod has a brief comment to make. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315105627	Thank you for that and thank you for an exciting speech from the rapporteur. I thought it was really exciting. If I understood that correctly and it is just to find out how much I agree with the statements made by the rapporteur, then you have to understand that in reality there is a wrong focus in the debate on monitoring, where we focus too much on technology that we have really known for many years, for example. video surveillance, and that we make too little distinction between who is doing the monitoring, i.e. whether it is a Danish state that we have very, very high confidence in for many reasons, or it is private Internet giants who are not here in Denmark? They sit on the other side of the globe, but they have access to perhaps far more detailed data than the Danish police will ever get. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20190315105714	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315105715	I am incredibly pleased with that question, because I have a principle that I do not have speaking paper with when I go up here to be more listening. It then sometimes makes my speech a little unstructured and there are elements I forget. I forgot, in other words, about what private operators might be allowed to use television surveillance for. That is some of the things we are sceptical about. Compared to that, sir. As far as the state is concerned, Peter Kofod asks, I would like to take part in the promise, just as when we talk about the tax area, the confidence in our tax system, which is actually good, even though there have been some scandals. We need to share the confidence that we have a system, a state that will do us good, because it is quite unique how well it works in Denmark, and so much confidence we can have reason to have. It also requires that, when mistakes are made, we do not blacken them, but are open about the fact that there has been a mistake; it was human, it was opportune political, we resolve that, and we stand by that. Because then we can get the trust back. So I fully agree with what I hear the questioner also like looking to, namely that we need to focus much more on who will be able to monitor and what their aim is, instead of having this Orwellian approach, where it is scary scenarios, dystopia 10 years in the future. In fact, I believe that it was Bill Gates who once said that there has been a great deal of concentration on what is happening over the next two years, and not so much about what is happening over the next ten years.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315105832	Sir. Peter Kofod.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315105833	What the rapporteur says is incredibly interesting. I could have said the same, because my impression is that the focus is wrong in this debate. So I just want to acknowledge the alternative of actually having those thoughts. Although we may end up thinking differently about the bill, at least I think that those ideas in the debate are very sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315105850	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315105851	Thank you. I got a little short in the language at the end because I didn't have more time. But what I wanted to say with the quote from Bill Gates was that you often focus a lot on what this bill means in the next two years. Is that fair and fair? And that is where we may then have a different political conclusion at the end. Because this really sounds right and fair for the next two years, but is there going to be a slip, and where are we in 10 years? Can you connect all these data in a way that we don't have hand in hand with because we haven't looked so far ahead? That is where we have the skeptical position.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315105920	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315105928	Thank you for that, President. This debate is really interesting, as the Liberal Alliance rapporteur also mentioned, because it shows how fundamentally different we are. When you hear the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party talking about what it's like to go down Strøget and see all these video surveillance cameras, I just have to say that I feel exactly the opposite way by Mr. Peter Kofod. To put it bluntly, I am actually rather sorry that we have as many cameras as we have. I think it says something sad about developments and I wish we could have a society with much less surveillance than there is today. That is why I felt the same way when I saw this bill and the title of it, that all the alarm bells just kind of started ringing, because the proposal is called the extension of access to television surveillance. And when you read down the proposal and see what is really in it, I do not know whether the Minister for Justice has, as it were, come up with it alone in order to get the Radical Left up in the red on such a Friday as might otherwise be a little tame. Because in reality it seems a little bit as if the title and what one might be afraid of are worse than what actually lies in it, for most of the proposal is just about clarifying what we understand by a facade and an entrance, and also about giving access to some other types of business. So although I come with the same instinct as some of the other rapporteurs, namely that we in the Radical Left are against extending access to television surveillance, I do, as Mr. René Gade mentioned just now, so that we will go to it in committee by asking some questions, because I think it is quite appropriate to look at whether there is any possibility of delimiting it so that we can feel comfortable about it. In fact, however, I also think that the answers to the hearings were not so clear. There are no recommendations to make sure that you put it in this way and this way and this way. So I feel quite much in the same way as the alternative rapporteur also said, namely that we are being sceptical. But I am also open to being convinced that you have actually made an effort to define it as much as it actually is possible and as is reasonable. In this way, I feel the same way as the Liberal Alliance and the Left rapporteur said, namely that it is very, very important that we keep our balance and that we do not just lose out in order to monitor more than is necessary. On the other hand, there is also the logic that the police have access to the television surveillance that already exists in those situations where it is very, very serious. And if we can be reassured that this demarcation has been made as narrowly as is necessary, I would like to be convinced that we should also be involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315110239	Thank you. We move on to Mr. Nase Khader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315110252	Thank you. In the Conservative People's Party, we have a hate-love relationship to surveillance. This may be necessary, but monitoring is not an end in itself. We have a goal to have a strong and proactive police force. We therefore believe that it has become necessary to provide the police with more tools to work with in the field of video surveillance. We would like there to be no need for the state to monitor citizens to the extent that we see them today. However, we are not blind to the fact that in today's Denmark we unfortunately have such a need. Our most sacred task as politicians must be to ensure that ordinary Danes can feel safe and secure whether they are at home, at work or on the streets of the city. Here we believe that the safety and security of our citizens must and must weigh more heavily. The reality remains that video surveillance is a necessary tool in the fight against crime. Here, for example, I am talking about organised crime, which has led to a series of shoplifting in recent times... thefts that have harmed the business community have absorbed large amounts of resources from the police and have created a great deal of insecurity in the local areas. In addition, it has also become necessary to tighten up the monitoring of the terrorist threat to assembly sites and religious buildings. That is very topical today. We believe that as a citizen of Denmark one should be able to open a store or practise one's faith and religion in peace and with full confidence that the police are ready. It is these people who are most at risk, and it is they that we must ensure that adequate protection is provided. In short, this proposal will enable us to provide the police with much-needed tools to combat organised crime, prevent future terrorist attacks and ensure the safety of all of us. That is why the Conservative People's Party can support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315110504	Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315110512	Thank you for the contributions from the rapporteurs today, many mainly positive contributions, also something that I look forward to making clear in the committee's next reading. The bill consists of two parts. The first part of the bill concerns the acquisition of television surveillance by the police, and the second part of the bill concerns the extension of television surveillance. For the sake of clarity, I shall first examine the first part of the legislative proposal and then the second. The aim of the first part of the bill is to allow the police to take over television surveillance by other authorities and private individuals in exceptional situations to prevent serious crimes, such as terrorist attacks, gang violence or the like. When the police are informed that there is a serious crime going on, the police are doing what they can to prevent the crime. In this context, it is essential that the police quickly get an overview of the whereabouts of a possible perpetrator, and therefore the bill allows the police to take over television surveillance in a defined area under specified conditions. In this way, the police will quickly have the opportunity to find relevant information about the location and whereabouts of a potential perpetrator. Let me give you an example. The police have come in possession of information that a number of perpetrators intend to commit a terrorist attack. Police are taking over TV surveillance in the area around the possible crime scene. It can, for example, be done. be television surveillance of metro stations, in residential areas or in a shopping centre. In this way, the police can find out when and from which the suspected perpetrators arrive. This information increases the police's ability to stop the perpetrators and prevent the attack. This is not just a thoughtful example. Experience has already shown the importance of having access to television surveillance to prevent serious crimes. For example: was it during the terrorist attack in Copenhagen in February 2015 among others. because of television surveillance in a residential area, it was possible for the police to map part of the perpetrator's whereabouts. The draft law proposes that three conditions should be met before the police can take over television surveillance. Firstly, there must be a serious crime. In concrete terms, this means that there must be an infringement of a provision of Chapter 12 or 13 of the Criminal Code concerning, inter alia: crimes against state security and terrorism. Alternatively, it must be a crime that has a prison sentence for six years or more. It can, for example, be done. be robbery, arson or other serious crimes. Secondly, the offence must endanger the lives or welfare of people or the considerable values of society. Thirdly, there must be crucial reasons for taking over television surveillance in order to prevent the crime being committed. It is therefore only with a view to preventing crime that the police, under the proposed provision, can take over television surveillance. The bill will provide the police with an important tool in preventing serious crimes. It is also a tool that needs to be used with care and with legal certainty. Therefore, it is a requirement that the police should, as a starting point, obtain a court order before taking over the television surveillance. It is also the court that determines the geographical area and the duration of the police's takeover of television surveillance. The duration of time shall, as a general rule, be set at no more than 48 hours. In cases of particular urgency, the police may take over the television surveillance without a prior court order, but in these cases shall submit the takeover to the court within 24 hours. Finally, it is important to mention that television surveillance can only take place if it is proportionate. I move on to the second part of the draft law, which concerns an amendment to the TV monitoring law. That part of the proposal has several objectives. Firstly, the draft law will clarify the rules of the Television Monitoring Act as to when private persons may conduct television surveillance. The aim is, among other things, to: to clarify where and when operators may set up surveillance around their store. This part of the bill is part of the playout • Security for shopkeepers from November 2018 to counter organised and repeated crime. Clarification of the rules governing when private persons may conduct television surveillance has also been requested by stakeholders in this area. The draft law could also help to limit illegal television surveillance, as the rules will be easier to comply with. They also become easier to enforce. Secondly, the draft law will extend the scope for which operators can legally monitor certain situations. With the bill, certain wholesale companies will, among other things,: be able to conduct television surveillance of own entrances and facades under the same conditions as those applied to retail outlets today. That part of the proposal should be seen in the light of the fact that wholesale undertakings have the same need to be able to monitor television to the same extent as retail outlets. This extension of access to television surveillance is a change that is also sought by stakeholders in this area. Thirdly, the draft law will introduce access for the police to allow, in specific cases, private persons to carry out television surveillance to a certain extent when necessary to address a security threat. The Television Monitoring Act already contains a limited circle of private individuals who, under certain conditions, are able to conduct television surveillance of areas used for the general public. However, in the interests of society's preparedness for more serious security threats, there may be a need for other private individuals, in particular, to be allowed to conduct television surveillance to a certain extent. It could, for example, be done. be in cases where there is a security threat to religious buildings or places of residence. Fourthly, the draft law will allow for the retention of these recordings of personal data for a longer period of time where this is necessary for the purposes of a declaration of criminal offence. It is the starting point of today's television watching law that, after 30 days, photos and sound recordings which have been recorded in connection with television surveillance for crime prevention purposes should be deleted as a starting point. However, there may be cases where it is not possible to transfer recordings proving a criminal offence to the police within 30 days, and this may mean that a shopkeeper should delete a recording that would otherwise be used as evidence in criminal proceedings if it has not been possible to hand over the admission to the police within 30 days. I believe that this legal state is inappropriate and that it can put private people in an unpleasant dilemma, as has also been pointed out by stakeholders in this area. And that concludes the proposal. So that's a big suggestion. I also think it has the right balance, and I am pleased to hear the rapporteurs here today express that we may be able to get deeper into it in committee and get closer to where the balances are going here and that we can get closer to some of the issues that have been raised. But I look forward to further consideration and also to answering the questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315111225	Thank you. There is also a question now. Sir. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315111229	It is quite specific in relation to the deadline for deletion, where there is a consultation answer from Danish Occupation, which points out that one might look at making a solution that could technically allow one to stay within the current legal framework of 30 days. What does the Minister think about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20190315111244	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315111247	Well, I think in the first place that there may be cases where there has been evidence of a criminal offence that has been reported to the police, but it has not been possible to hand over. It is, of course, just there to ensure that in those cases you have to be able to go beyond the 30 days. When they're transferred to the police, of course they have to be deleted. It's just that it's not always possible for the police to have it. These may be investigative measures, which is why I think it makes good sense. It has to be a very concrete assessment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315111326	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315111330	I fully agree with the intention, but I am just reading it as if the Data Protection Agency is actually saying that the current state of law allows data to be stored for that time. But I can ask you about that in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315111342	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315111345	Thank you. Yeah, let's get it done there. Because I think that this is, of course, also about making it simple, clear and clear, to say that there is a clear deadline, but that there can therefore be cases where there are some reasons why you are not given it. However, let us go into this in greater detail in the further reading of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315111403	Thank you, and thank you to the Minister of Justice. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315111427	The debate is open. Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315111436	Yes, it is a heavy issue that we are going to have to deal with here: a bill dealing with sex offenders. And the first wave of outrage and anger has only just settled after the DR outlined one of Denmark's most comprehensive cases of sexual crimes against children, and unfortunately it happens regularly that people are accused and convicted of sexual assaults against children. Many of them have done it before, and some will try to do it again. But hopefully this bill will help to reduce the number of new attacks. We must do everything we can to ensure that as few children as possible are subjected to sexual abuse. It is a devastating crime against some of society's most defenceless and vulnerable people, namely our children, and we must be able to leave our children in the country's institutions and in various leisure clubs without having to fear for their safety. So there has to be a tough consequence and also a socially tough approach to this type of crime. But before anger and outrage tears the rationality completely out of us, we must of course consider how we limit the scope. How do we ensure that the fewest possible victims of one of the most devastating crimes? Nor can punishment stand alone here, as I say, every time we discuss punishment, because paedophilia is a diagnosis. According to the WHO, this is a psychiatric diagnosis, which is why we must also follow up on the ban, the punishment and supervision of treatment. So it is absolutely central. In addition, there are a number of reservations that we must take. We need to be careful about giving people a stamp, a brand. So the Danish legal system does not work that way, and that is why we need to ensure it in relation to • and I have some doubts as to whether the proposal here lies within the framework of how we normally practice legislation. So it must not be the case that, when you come out and have been judged, you can be followed for the rest of your life. There is legal certainty, including for sexual offenders. This does not mean that we should not do everything we can to prevent this, and we should think that the legislative proposal here is a good tool, but there are some adjustments that we should be allowed to look at during the committee procedure and which we think are central.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315111748	Thank you. There are no comments, so that's why it's sir. Peter Kofod, Danish People's Party, as next rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315111800	The proposal here must hit some of the worst criminals in this country. I cannot imagine many crimes that could be worse than destroying the lives of children, and that is what the proposal here is intended to help contain. But before I look at the proposal, I have to say that there are virtually no limits to what we, as Parliament, should be willing to do to stem this. Pedophilia is evil. Children are marked for their lives by the abuse they are subjected to, and that should never be accepted. I will start by addressing the hearings, because they were the ones who really shook me the most when I read through this bill. One of the answers says that the freedom of movement of the convicted person, that is, the paedophile, is being unduly impeded. This could be a violation of the right to the convicted person's family and private life. The proposal for an unlimited ban will make a group of people and it is then in this case the paedophiles are labeled for life. Who writes something like this? Here we are faced with a situation which is about curbing crimes against children, child abuse. It seems that there are people who are incredibly concerned that now we have to look after these people and that we also have to be careful in our approach to paedophiles. And there I just have to say that we do not feel that way in the Danish People's Party. That's where we're gonna take the spoon in the other hand, 'cause this is something we're gonna hit hard. That is also why we are pleased that the government has put forward this proposal • a proposal which basically draws this in a large number of respects in the right direction. But that is not enough. In other words, the proposal for and now I can examine them................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. That it is not a requirement that there is any longer a nearby danger of new crime being committed fairly enough. The removal of the time limit is also fine. And doubling the penalty for breaking a ban is also quite reasonable, just as it is fair that the police can knock on the door of these people and find out if they are coming out on a slope again. That is quite reasonable, but I think we need to do more. We put forward a research project in the Criminal Services Agreement, of which we expect a great deal, which is precisely that these people should be able to be medically castrated more than we know today, because we want to take these tendencies completely away from them. We see this as a good guarantee for children and young people, and we expect a great deal of it. But, of course, we support the proposal because it is a step in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315112118	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Mrs. Trine Bramsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315112125	Yes, this is a very serious issue we are discussing. I think we all agree on this, and I also believe that we are willing to go a very long way towards spotting these perpetrators who commit such terrible crimes. But what difference does it make if you can get a warrant? If you imagine that you could get a quick warrant before you go into people's homes and search their digital equipment... and we are talking about some people who have endured their sentences... will it not provide the same in the end, the fact that you have a warrant?
ParlaMint-DK_20190315112158	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315112202	I have to admit that I see no problem in the police going in, even after you've been in jail and finding out what these people might be up to. I see no need for a warrant in this regard. I understand that in some consultation answers there is a great deal of concern for legal certainty for this group of people, and that is, of course, fair enough, one might think so. I don't think it's that crucial for me. I think it's fine what the government is up to.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315112226	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315112233	What I'm just trying to ask you is, when you don't get to the same thing in the end? If you have a serious suspicion, you get a warrant, and then you get the same result if the police have a serious suspicion and knock on the door one late night. I guess you get the same result, and I guess that's what we're preoccupied with most of all here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315112258	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315112301	I do not think I quite understand the question, but if it is to be understood whether that part of the proposal makes a small difference if that is what the questioner would know then the answer is yes. Well, that is a small difference in the whole proposal, yes, I think I can confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315112317	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315112324	Thank you. In Section 236 of the Criminal Code. 1, it says that when someone is judged, a whole lot of things can be banned in the judgment if you are judged by these sex rules. So the judge has the opportunity in the judgment to supplement with a ban of some extent. It is therefore important to say that when we talk about the rules we are talking about today, these are situations in which there has already been a judge. It could be a ban on going to a swimming pool etc., i.e. situations where a judge has already assessed the case and has laid down these rules. I think that is important to make clear. Let me make it clear what this is all about. It is a question of extending the geography of where such a residence ban may apply. It is not just one swimming pool, it may be several swimming pools, to take it as an example, and there may be a question of relaxing the evidence so that a residence ban can be granted even when there is a risk that the convicted person will commit new crimes. It relaxes time so that a stay ban applies as a starting point for the time being. This changes the sentence, so that breaches of the residence ban are no longer punished by 4 months in prison, but by up to 12 months in prison. Finally, the proposal here means that the police must monitor compliance with the residence ban more closely by way of unannounced inspections and have the opportunity to investigate computers, telephones and the like without a court order. Let me take up the previous question, because it is a good question, that is, what would happen if a court order were requested here. I do not think there is anything technically to prevent that. It is often that we here in the Danish Parliament use the term 'there must be a judge over', but then I might sometimes wish to see what the result is of a judge coming in over. If you're looking at edit orders about teleinformation, I don't know what you're gonna do, you're gonna want to do 99 percent. by chance, see that you get that warrant. So we shall, when we use the expression that there is a need for a ruling, then also determine what the criteria should be, what the grounds of suspicion are, if we want a ruling, for the judge to be able to give it. I believe that, in this case, the grounds of suspicion will probably be based on the previous behaviour of the sentenced person, which is why it will probably be given by 99 per cent. of cases. I don't think that's going to make the big change. There is one point in this proposal which is important for me to clarify, and that is the very last point, namely that the police should be able to pass on information to companies, institutions and so on. about who is popularly said to be pedophiles and lives nearby. I understand that very well. The reason for this is, of course, that you have to be aware of what can happen; the person in the swimming pool or in the sports association or wherever it is. The problem is that, as the Social Democrat rapporteur said, we need to have a balance at home, and the starting point in Denmark is that if the penalty is served, the board is wiped clean. We just cannot directly transfer that point of view in these cases, because that would be too risky, and that is why the rule that the police should be able to inform others about the risk that has now arisen in the neighbourhood is necessary. However, I have also noted page 34 of the draft law, which states that rules must be drawn up in this context, including rules, I hope that the confidentiality of the person receiving the information will be protected, because we should not, therefore, go to where the police are spreading information to the right and left about people's past crime for no reason. However, I think that the Ministry of Justice has clearly realised this, and that is what is stated in the comments, so I hope that it will also come into place. The Left fully supports the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315112802	We just have a comment from Mrs Trine Bramsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315112805	Again, I believe that we fully agree with the intention of all of this and that there are many good tools. However, there is a small part of what is necessary to dwell on, and this is where the police can go in at any time at the address of some people who have previously been convicted and who have been punished, and here the police can come unannounced. What difference does the Left think it would make, that there should be a court order, which the police get in all sorts of other areas when they set up telephone intercepts or anything else? What difference would it make in addition to strengthening legal certainty if one just chose to make sure that there was first a court order?
ParlaMint-DK_20190315112841	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315112845	It's hard to answer. As I said in my speech, we are operating in other situations with the idea that a judge has to admit that a court order is needed. And as I said, I think that if you analyze those situations, you will find that in 99%. of the cases, the authorities have obtained that order. So it all depends on what the basis of the warrant is. What is the basis of suspicion? How much to wear on the person? And exactly in these situations, I think, depending on how we formulate the rule if necessary, it will be the case that the judge will say that the mere fact that he has been convicted of paedophilia in the past means that there is a strong suspicion, and then you will get the verdict. So, on that basis, I do not think it will be of great importance. But all due respect for Mrs Trine Bramsen's raising the issue. We are, and I might as well get ahead of the next speaker, nice to make use of these initiatives, where the authorities can go in to people without a warrant, and that's not something the Left is excited about. That must be the exception.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315112947	Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315112951	It may not seem on paper as if it makes a big difference, but it does so in principle, in relation to our being a community of law, and because it is also our duty in this Parliament to ensure that we are a community of law. That is why I hope that the Left will help us in the committee's proceedings to see whether we should not just put in this court order so that we do not smack into the rule of law when we are actually trying to solve something that we fully agree on is a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315113019	Thank you. Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315113022	I can confirm that we would very much like to take part in this, but we also need to look at whether the rules we then introduce are also rules that will have a practical effect in the future. However, I recognise the issue and we would like to take a look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315113036	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315113049	Here we are discussing a bill which contains a number of different elements. The first element changes the scope of residence bans under Article 236 of the Penal Code. Here are the rules in force that a sex offender can be sentenced to a stay ban so that he is not allowed to stay at or around the crime scene. The bill extends the scope of the residence ban, so a person who, for example, are convicted of incompetence in a swimming pool, may be prohibited from staying in all swimming pools in the same or other municipalities, etc. The second element is that the conditions for granting a residence ban are being changed. The third element is the change in the duration of the ban. In accordance with the rules in force, a period from 1 to 5 years or so shall be prohibited. The draft law contains a provision that bans are to be granted until further notice, i.e.: without a time limit. The fourth element concerns an increased penalty for non-compliance with the ban. The penalty for violation of the ban will be increased from four months to two years in prison, i.e. a sixfold increase in the penalty. The last point, which has filled a lot in the debate on this bill, is about monitoring compliance with the ban, where the bill will introduce a rule of unannounced police supervision without a warrant. This means that the police will be able to obtain access to the sentenced person's home and other premises at the disposal of the sentenced person, and this applies to the entire period of the ban, in other words potentially for many years or for the rest of his life. In particular, with regard to the last point, I think it is important to make it clear, as has actually been shown in the debate so far, that it is actually possible today to have access to a home of a person convicted of paedophilia and who has endured his sentence. You can ask for a court order, and if there is a basis on the request from the police, you will have access to the person's accommodation. After all, we also have the possibility, with court orders in general, that if the moment is lost, then the police can subsequently go in and ask for a warrant. So there's a cat hatch or an emergency clause. So today we already have the tools, if there is a suspicion that something criminal is going on, to enter the home of a person who has previously been convicted, but this is done by a court order. There are several of the elements of this bill that could actually be discussed in the sensible way. We have, for example. rules that if you are convicted of a paedophile assault, you cannot just get a job, for example. a children's institution. So can we say that if you have been convicted of a delinquency in a swimming pool, does it not make sense that we are looking at whether we can adjust the rules so that you cannot just jump over to the neighboring swimming pool, so to speak, if you are a danger or a nearby danger? So it's not that there aren't things that can be discussed in this. The scope of the bill is a little unclear to me. Now I'm also a substitute today for mr. Søren Søndergaard, who is the legal rapporteur for the Enhedslisten. But what if, for example, you're gonna have to... Have you committed a blurry assault on a playground? Is it then all playgrounds that are not allowed to be on, or in which municipalities is it? Playgrounds can be arranged very differently. If, for example, we do not know what to do. Looking at the Copenhagen area, it is not playgrounds that have a fence around, but a playground must be an integral part of a park environment. And how do you steer around playgrounds? In other words, there may be something about the definition of the boundaries of it. But there may be something relevant to discuss here, so it is not because everything in the bill here necessarily stems from a stupid thought. So I would say, as Mrs Trine Bramsen has pointed out, that in particular the fifth point on monitoring compliance with the ban is problematic, and I think it is important just to read out section 72 of the Constitution here: The building is inviolable. House investigations, seizure and investigation of letters and other papers, as well as breaches of postal, telegraph and telephone secrecy, where no law provides for a special exception, shall take place only after a court order. In other words, there is no law providing for a special exception, and it is a proposal for such a law that we are discussing here today, that is, a bill that puts the important provision of the Constitution on privacy and the inviolability of the dwelling out of the control of a particular group of persons who, in turn, have committed very serious crimes. So it's not because everything that's in this bill isn't something that Enhedslisten wants to discuss to support. However, in the way in which the draft law is lumped together and especially in relation to the fifth point, which I concluded by commenting on here and reading out the provisions of the Constitution, I must say that the Enhedslisten cannot support the draft law in its present form.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315113625	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next is Mrs Christina Egelund as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315113633	Thank you very much. After all, it is always a pleasure to be allowed to speak right after the Enhedslisten's rapporteur Mr. Rune Lund, and this time it was moving to hear a defense of the inviolability of the dwelling and private property. Last time I heard something from Enhedslisten about private property, it was about a state takeover of private companies. So that's why it's nice today to hear Enhedslisten's passionate defense of the inviolability of the dwelling. Now for the more serious thing, because I am glad that with this bill we are trying to do something about the sex offenders who commit abuse over and over again, because that is unfortunately sometimes the reality. Unfortunately, when they are released from prison, this happens occasionally, and it is rarely something we can do anything about the fact that there are other children who are subjected to sexual crimes by previously convicted persons for the same sex crimes. I find it hard to understand that people who have been convicted of child abuse and who have even been banned from staying with children can nevertheless continue to commit abuse when they leave prison. We simply cannot accept that. That is why we need to take tough action against those criminals who are at risk of committing new abuses, and that is what we are trying to do with this bill. We are extending the powers of the courts to issue a residence ban to cover more places where sexual offenders can commit new crimes rather than only those where the original crime was committed. Because it is not written anywhere that if the first crime has been committed in one place, the next is necessarily committed in the same place. This may mean that a paedophile should not be allowed to stay in, for example. a swimming pool where there are many children, and it may also be other places that are relevant. This will be based on an individual assessment. It is not a question of us knowing how previously convicted of sexual crimes are around the clock, but we must at least know that they are not in places where they can easily come into contact with children. In short, it is about preventing new abuses against children. The Social Democrats' rapporteur has then raised the issue of a court order in relation to access to computers. I think that is a good question to raise, and we shall take a positive view of that in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315113926	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. René Gade as rapporteur for the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315113933	One really has to make an effort to keep track of the prospects of such a case here, that is, when we are talking about paedophilia. It must therefore be said straight away that we in the alternative are in favour of the legislative proposal, but that there are elements that we must, of course, delve into in committee. And that may be what the Socialist rapporteur has been talking about, in other words, among other things. In relation to a court order before entering a convicted person's property. Let us look at that amendment when we get this far if it is supported by the Socialists in particular. I think it is important to say that as I understand it and I am by no means an expert there is something a little different in play when we talk about paedophilia than when we talk about many other forms of crime. Because as I understand it, it's a mental illness. This is how it is seen in Denmark, and therefore there is also limited success in the treatment that actually takes place. And when we talk about prison sentences, it is very important to point out that prison sentences in themselves do nothing to get paedophilia victims, we can say that those who suffer from paedophilia or have the sights to refrain from doing so, so nothing happens. They are prevented from acting in society, and that is very, very important. I would like to put a thick line on that, which is why prison is also a completely valid punishment. But what is crucial politically must be to see whether we can improve what we are doing in order to change the behaviour of those who practice paedophilia or have those thoughts. And there I don't think our results look so good yet. The alternative is positive about the proposal here, but together we must delve deeper into how we can make it even easier for those who record that behaviour in themselves and actually make contact. I believe that last year there was a debate about the people who have actually made contact themselves, that is to say they have noticed that it is mad and that they have the thoughts that rhyme with paedophilia. And so it is the case that when they actually want to contact their own doctor, they do not really dare to do so because they are afraid to be registered, and that is very, very inappropriate. So we have to do everything we can to help people who identify this disease in themselves. We simply have to take action and support that, because we cannot in any way accept that people commit crime on the basis of paedophilia over and over again. And that is why we also think that the elements that may otherwise be cross-border in this draft law are, in some cases, something that we will also dive into during the committee procedure. That is something else we are talking about here, because it is not something that just goes away. And if we then say that it is not enough to delineate it geographically to where they live, but in fact in many other areas too, I would say that there is a great deal of fairness in that. After all, the fact that it happens further away from one's own home does not make it any less wrong. It's an area where you almost feel physically bad just talking about it. At the same time, however, we must try to keep the nuances and also listen a lot to the consultations that are coming and which are trying to set a legal and human rights framework for it. However, I would like to express respect for the government's proposals and say that, as a starting point, we are positive towards the vast majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315114252	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then the trip has come to Mrs Lotte Rod, who is the rapporteur for the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315114302	Thank you. Sexual crimes against children are one of the worst things you can possibly imagine, and therefore it is important that we do what works. But I would also like to say that it is not as black and white as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party says, namely that we should just do everything. I would like to give an example in which we have done something completely misunderstood, namely that there is a ban on male educators being left alone with children around the day institutions, or even worse: that men should not take children up on their laps and hug them. It is directly harmful to children's development and has also frightened many men away from becoming educators. So we're gonna have to do something. We need to take action hard, but we need to do it wisely, where what we are doing is working and not going to cause other problems to be created. So what's working? First of all, it's a good thing to give a restraining order. As the Crime Prevention Council writes, restraining orders are an effective tool to have, and therefore we also support that part of the bill from the radical side. However, I feel that I find it problematic that it can just be unlimited in time. I think it is a good idea, as the Crime Prevention Council suggests, to be able to get away from the restraining order if you are in sexological treatment, so that you can do something for it yourself, because what must be the goal of it is that we should help people out of it so that they do not commit crime again. Secondly, there is a problem about this: it should automatically be just 5 years, as both Justitia and the Legal Affairs Association point out. There we believe radically that it would be right to stick to what it is now that we go in and make it 1 to 5 years as a starting point. There must be very special circumstances before it is just the 5 years. Thirdly, there is a problem in the draft law, which other rapporteurs before me have also mentioned, with the fact that, as soon as one's sentence has been passed, one should still be able to search his accommodation and his letters without a warrant. It is a breach of fundamental legal principles, so it is also one of the things we need to look at. And finally, fourthly, there's something problematic in this bill about passing on information to private people. So these four things will be put forward in committee. If we are to be able to support the bill, it has to be because some clarification is being made in these areas. And I'll say hello from the SF and they feel the same way. They also need to be sharpened in order to support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315114614	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then we move on to Mr. Nas Khade as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315114622	Thank you. We must not tolerate sexual abuse of children. I think I can say that is a statement supported by all the parties of the Folketing. We all agree that we need to protect children, and it is our job as adults and politicians to ensure that they have a good childhood. In the Conservative People's Party, therefore, we believe that consideration for the child must always weigh the heavier. That is the guide we follow in all cases involving children. When we are talking about children who have been subjected to terrible attacks, we do not believe that it can be much clearer which considerations should be the most serious. The fact is that we owe it to the children to use every means to prevent future abuse. We are not in the process of branding people, as some would argue. By tightening up the situation, we are helping the paedophiles who themselves have said that they are only happy that the police are there to keep them in their ears. The courts must therefore be able to impose an indefinite ban on residence and it must have appreciable consequences to break this ban. We in the Conservative People's Party believe this to be a sensible and reasonable legal policy. When the sentence is handed down, the children and their parents must be able to sit calmly in their souls and with certainty that we, as a society, have done everything we can to ensure that the matter is not repeated. We must and must use every means available to combat child abuse, and this proposal is a good and important step on the road to a future without terrible abuse. That is why the Conservative People's Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315114810	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. And then we've come to the Attorney General. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315114819	Thank you, and thank you, to the rapporteurs for their speeches today, who have been mostly positive. Some questions have also been asked for clarification. We'll have to take them later. Sexual abuse of children is a very serious crime that can affect the victim for the rest of his life. Society must stand ready to help a child who is subjected to sexual assault while ensuring that the perpetrator is punished and does not attack children again. A number of specific cases involving convicted sex offenders who have committed new acts of violence following their punishment have unfortunately shown that there is a need to step up efforts in this area. These have been cases where convicted sexual offenders, who have been prohibited from staying with children and having children's visits, have again committed sexual abuse. We cannot live with that as a society, and that is why, in December 2018, I put forward a proposal with seven new initiatives to strengthen the fight against paedophiles and, as you know, this bill implements a number of the initiatives. Today, in connection with a conviction for certain sexual crimes, the court may prohibit the convicted person from staying or moving in a neighborhood near the crime scene. The draft law extends the scope of the residence ban so that the court can decide that it should cover several areas where there is a danger that the convicted person will commit new similar crimes. It can, for example, be done. be all swimming pools or sports halls in a municipality or for that matter throughout the country. The purpose of the change is to prevent convicted sex offenders from committing new crimes other than where the original crime was committed. It is not necessarily the case that a sex offender always commits crimes in the same place. The extended residence ban must help prevent convicted sex offenders from going around the country and violating new victims elsewhere. In addition, it is proposed to extend the right to grant prohibitions. The prohibition must be possible even when it is assumed that there is a danger that the convicted person will commit new similar crimes. It will no longer be a requirement that there is a nearby danger that the convicted person will commit new crimes. So the barren to impose a ban is reduced. The amendment means that bans may also be imposed in cases where the convicted person has not previously been punished for similar crimes. In that case, however, it is a requirement that the crime be of a more serious nature. For example, it will. could be the case where the crime has been committed jointly by several persons, it could be a group rape, has been committed against several victims, or in the case of repeated or prolonged sexual assaults against a victim. In addition, the court will be able to stress that the crime has been committed against one or more children, as well as the age of the child. It is also proposed that, in future, the ban should be given as a starting point so far, i.e. without a time limit. However, the Court of First Instance must be able to decide to limit the ban for 1 to 5 years. This will be particularly relevant in cases where the convicted person has not previously been punished for similar crimes and where the relationship has not been committed against one or more children. However, we cannot simply change the bans themselves. The scary cases we have seen show that there is also a need for the bans to be enforced in a more effective and systematic way. This must be done by the police overseeing convicted sex offenders who have been banned. The surveillance shall be carried out unannounced and run until the prohibition is lifted or lifted. As part of the supervision, the police must be able to obtain access to the place of residence of the convicted person and elsewhere, for example. a garden at the disposal of the sentenced person to check whether children are present. The police must also be able to examine documents and other items available to the convicted person, for example. IT equipment, and bring the equipment to investigate it if necessary. The police must also be given the opportunity to provide information on those who have been prohibited from staying. The information must be available to holders and managers of companies and institutions, e.g.: Swimming halls and sports halls. Release may only be made if it is necessary to enforce the residence ban and information may only be processed by the recipients to the extent necessary for the enforcement of the prohibition. The recipients shall also be bound by the obligation of professional secrecy with regard to the information. In addition, the draft law provides for an increase in the penalty for the infringement of a ban. Specifically, we propose that the penalty should be raised from prison for four months to prison for two years. As a society, we must stand ready to help the victims when the terrible thing happens that a child or an adult is subjected to sexual abuse. At the same time, we must ensure that the perpetrator gets a hard and consistent punishment and does not commit any new abuses. We must step up our efforts to combat paedophilia and this bill is a major step forward. One assault on one child is too much. With these comments, I would like to thank you once again for your speeches and look forward to the further examination of the matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315115327	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315115350	The debate is open. I give the floor to Mrs Trine Bramsen, who is the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315115358	The draft law that we are about to discuss here gives a good opportunity to repeat the tale of social democratic justice policy. We are fighting for our rule of law to exist on the basis of three fundamental values: prevention, punishment and rehabilitation. Because it is important that we achieve the lowest possible choice of criminal career, and it is important that those who do so feel that their behaviour is unacceptable, and when they have received and endured their punishment, it is important that they return to society and that we provide them with the best tools to become part of society. Community service is a good tool for preventing relapses. It's good for all of us. When criminals do not repeat their crimes, society benefits from the potential victims, and this also applies to the perpetrators themselves. Punishment is important, but when we look at it in the long run and balance the consequences, it is also important to look at the factors that limit crime and limit the number of victims, and in that equation rehabilitation is important and community service as part of it. On the other hand, of course, we must also ensure that there are forms of crime in which we feel that the consequences are present and where we cannot have these alternative forms of punishment and, in our view, it is particularly perilous crime, it is gang crime and other hard forms of crime. It's also for the sake of the sense of justice, because the sense of justice is also part of this equation. There have been too many examples of those who have been convicted of crime, for example. for having knocked someone else down at a bar, shortly afterward has come to serve the sentence in the same nursing home or the like where the victim's mother lives. And that's not gonna work. There's an imbalance between this sense of justice on the one hand and the punishment on the other. That is why we have been calling for a long time for the use of community services to be restricted and, for that matter, for the use of ankle chains, which we must also discuss here when it comes to personal crime. On the other hand, we would very much like to extend the use of alternative forms of punishment to sentences for longer sentences. For example, when we talk about ankle bracelets, we could raise it to 9 months, where today it is 6 months. We would very much like to see that, but there is only a marked difference between personal and material crime. That is why we are voting in favour of the proposal here today, but it is also with a desire that we should discuss the areas where we can offer the use of alternative forms of punishment, because that is the best way to get people out of crime. We just have to make sure that it goes hand in hand with the sense of justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315115722	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is Mr. Peter Kofod as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315115743	Thank you. The proposal we are now considering in the Danish People's Party is simply the correction of an error, as it was a mistake that the previous majority before the last election bled up these rules. This has had the wrong effect, and it has meant that for many people who have been sentenced and should have been put in prison, they have ended up having to endure a gentler form of service. It has become conditional sentences, and it has become community service, and it has become an anklet instead of the reasonable thing in that when you have committed crime and do so repeatedly, you have, of course, to be severely punished for it. During the former Minister of Justice, back in 2015-16, we had raised a question debate on this issue precisely because we thought that this practice had gone too far. Therefore, there is also praise and recognition to the government for having taken up this important issue and put forward a legislative proposal on it. I think that is incredibly positive. So praise the government for that. The thing is, we've been in agreement all the way through this process on the blue block that this is something we're going to contain. We considered it a mistake in the previous parliamentary term when it was voted on, as the then government unfortunately chose to relax these rules. What effect has it had? Yes, the comments on the proposal make that clear, among other things. There are examples in case law of cases in which the court has imposed a conditional judgment on community service for violation of Article 244 of the Criminal Code, cf. 1, where the accused was previously punished for violence five times and where the current situation was committed during the probationary period of the recent verdict on violence. I mean, this is really soft with soft on. And it has to be said that there is a need for it to be tightened up. I am, in fact, pleased that the government is now saying in the proposal that if you have been convicted in the past of violence or similar crime, and if the violence has been committed against an unbiased victim and no minor damage has been done, then the starting point is that there must be unconditional imprisonment. It's fine. This also means that in more serious cases, i.e. infringement of Article 245, it must, as a starting point, always grant unconditional imprisonment. It's fine. I think that what the government is proposing here is reasonable and we wholeheartedly support the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315120019	Thank you to the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen as rapporteur for the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315120030	Thank you. Let me first sign for the fine speech just made by the Danish People's Party. And then a few words addressed to probably mainly Mrs Trine Bramsen. Social democracy has thus seen a relatively reasonable legal policy when Social Democracy is in opposition, but when Social Democracy is in government, something happens. Whether it is the essence of social democracy that comes forward or whether it is because of pressure from the support parties Enhedslisten and the alternative etc., I shall leave it unsaid. Nevertheless, as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party rightly said, this is a matter of error. The Socialists decided, while in government, to extend the use of community services in cases of violence, despite clear warnings from the Left. I know, I remember, because it was myself who stood on the platform, and it was also Mrs Trine Bramsen who was then on the platform. And the Minister of Justice, who was that? The Minister of Justice at that time was Mrs Mette Frederiksen, who is the chairman of the Social Democratic Party today. Mrs Mette Frederiksen said at the time: we know that community service is being used by simple violence today and also with a beneficial effect, and we want there to be a little more use of community service in cases of simple violence, and that will always be based on a concrete assessment, and that is why we must, of course, be extremely sharp in assessing whether it is right to do or not. It was not the right thing to do, we know that today. And Mrs Trine Bramsen tried at that time to reassure us by saying that I would also reject the myth that has been advanced that violent persons who have been responsible for the death of another person should enter a kindergarten directly rather than go to prison. So that's not the case with this bill. No, that is also what one could call a strawman, because of course no one claimed that at the time. However, we were some who raised a flag that the bill led and adopted by the Socialists would lead to the use of community service in a number of cases of violence, where, in other words, it would be very, very difficult to see the sense of it. And that's how it happened. We have examples from case law in which people have been sentenced to community service after they have committed violence, not even twice, not three times, not four times, but five times, and in which the fifth case of violence has even been committed in the probationary period following the fourth sentence of violence. We have seen cases where community service has been sentenced, despite the fact that the victim has been treated subsequently, where plaster, stitching, serious damage, serious psychological treatment has subsequently been part of the treatment, and we have seen examples of the use of community service where the victim has been a child. That's why we're tightening up now. Social services are, as a starting point, a very sensible form of sanctions for a large number of crimes, but we in the Left believe that when we talk about acts of violence, where the criminal has received more violent sentences in the past, we must therefore be extremely reluctant to use community service. We believe that if the victim is a child, an elderly person is disabled, there must also be extreme restraint in the use of community services, and we therefore also believe that where the victim has gone to the emergency room, where there is no black eye or such thing, but in other words even treatment-intensive cases where the victim has to be sewn or put into plaster, etc., it is not enough to let go of community service. We are now getting this right, and it is wonderful, and it is of course also good that the Social Democrats today support that position, but it would of course have been nicer if the bill we are discussing today had not been necessary and if the Social Democrats had then chosen to listen to the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315120440	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315120444	I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Liberal Party whether it is not a fair way of doing so in a community of law such as the Danish one, that one chooses to conclude if one thinks that the courts have gone too far, in relation to what one had expected from the courts, that it is right to go back to the Folketing and adjust the legislation and make it clear that there are therefore some types of cases which were mentioned, moreover, when it was introduced, in which community service is not to be used. Isn't that the real way to do that? I do not fully understand the need to scold, to use the very real procedures in order to ensure that the legislation also corresponds to what you wanted at the time. And now the rapporteur was not meant to be so generous as to refer to the rapporteur's speech which I was in charge of at the time... that the serious cases of violence were to come under this provision.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315120547	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315120548	No, but that's what we said back then. I mean, it's really, really great that you correct a mistake, but it's all just better that you don't make the mistake. And if you could say from the Social Democrats that you were not warned and that you did not know that this would happen, then I just have to say that it is not right. Because we warned about it by the Left, and we also asked whether we could be invited to real negotiations. I have to say that this happened with regard to the question of how many hours of community service should be imposed, where we therefore thought that the tariff was very low. It was corrected and thank you for that. However, on the other hand, the Social Democrats chose to pursue block politics rather than, as I called for, a broad, long-lasting settlement so that we could avoid getting into this situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315120632	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315120634	The rapporteur said it himself, and I think that we all hope that we will all agree in this Chamber that it is about getting people out of crime on the other side. And that was the intention of this legislation, that is to ensure that more people came out on the other side and did not repeat their wrongdoings. But, on the other hand, we must also ensure that there is a balance, that is, that the sense of justice is also respected. I think that the real thing is when we find that the courts went further than what we expected back then, and then it is nice that the Left was so clever that they could predict what the courts would end up using this legislation to go back to Parliament and say: we need to fine-tune this legislation a little. I just cannot understand the need to be rude, to choose to do it that way, knowing that you have a tool that is actually very good.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315120725	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315120726	It is not a question of insolence; it is just a question of becoming wiser in your experience and perhaps, if it should happen again, of having a Social Democratic Minister for Justice, trying to make a little wider conciliation and trying to take seriously the warnings that are coming. And now, of course, we cannot know what would have happened if the Social Democracy had continued and there had still been a Social Democratic Minister for Justice, even if we had stood here today and changed the legislation. I will allow myself to doubt, but of course we will never solve that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315120754	The next question is Mr. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315120758	I would like to ask the rapporteur a question about the examples that have been of the fact that community service was not really useful and that in some cases it was quite unreal that people committed a crime for the fifth time while they were in community service. The frequency of this to those cases where it is actually good to have community service is one of the things I want to look at in committee. I am not really keen on what the cost-benefit analysis is like. Is the rapporteur keen on the general examples that we have of the fact that community service is quite wrong, faced with the places where it actually works? In fact, I do not think the consultation answers are quite as clear as the rapporteur says that it is quite clear that it is good to roll this back. In fact, there are also many good examples of the fact that community service in the form that was introduced at that time has been sensible, as I read it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315120847	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315120849	As a starting point, community service is a good form of sanction, especially in first-time cases, no doubt about that. But we must remember that there are various reasons why we punish, and there is also a question of what we call the sense of justice, so that things must not be seen as too unfair. And if, for example, we have a doomed person who has been convicted several times in the past of violence and who is now again committing violence, then we have to say that there is so much concern for the sense of justice that there is no need to let go of community service.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315120927	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315120928	It is clear that the alternative will look at what is useful in the long term. 'Cause you could say that he just had to go to prison over and over again. Community service has just been introduced because we believe that it is useful in terms of equalising the motivations of the person to commit crime in the future. But I am looking at that in committee. I think it is sober pointer that comes from the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315120954	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315120954-2	Okay, I'm not quite sure I caught the last one, but maybe it doesn't do much either. In other words, punishment and consistency will be necessary at some point. We cannot just sit around and watch people commit crimes over and over again and say every time: well, then we try community service again; let us hope it works this time. If it doesn't work, then you have to understand the message, and then it's in behind bars.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315121023	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. Øjvind Vilsholm as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315121033	As has already been shown, the proposal here is to use less community service and more imprisonment. It will be expensive for society, because prison is more expensive than community service ■ much more expensive actually. The reason for the proposal is the concern for the public's sense of justice, and the proposal is presented despite the hearing of the Council of Attorneys, the Crime Prevention Council, the Think Tank Forsete, the National Defence Attorneys Association and many others with judicial expertise. Social services mean that fewer people fall back into crime, as the Crime Prevention Council states in its hearing response. In addition to the fact that the proposal costs a great deal of money, it will lead to more prisoners in prisons and to more return to crime, so the proposal is another example of the fact that the courts must be bound on their hands and feet and prescribed by a majority of the people, how they should judge down to the detail. This is an injustice and quite unnecessary, moreover, since the courts today, in the choice between community service and prison, stress whether there is repeated violence, whether the victim is particularly defenceless and whether the victim has suffered considerable damage and, furthermore, the starting point of serious violence is already today unconditional imprisonment. The Enhedslisten does not want to legislate on the basis of the very little concrete explanatory statement that is called the consideration of the sense of justice, and on this we take seriously the consideration of taxpayers' money and all the future victims. So the Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315121212	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Christina Egelund as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315121222	Thank you very much. I would like to start by stating that community service can be a very good and very sensible sanction in many cases. It may be if the seriousness of the crime is limited and if, as they say, the perpetrator is in control of his life and has not committed crime in the past. But if you commit personal crime, for example. I think there are other considerations that weigh more heavily than those of the perpetrator, and that is the concern for the sense of justice. It is about showing consideration and protecting the victim of every act of violence. So you should not risk bumping into your attacker down in the ice bar shortly after you have been hit on the street. I think the Justice Minister with this bill has found a good balance between the concern for the perpetrator's situation, the seriousness of the crime and the sense of justice of the victim. If you are previously unpunished, as I said, community service can be a very good sanction, but if you have committed similar crimes in the past and the penalty has apparently not worked, when you commit the offence again you should not get away so cheaply. And the bill takes that into account. So all in all, it is a very good legislative proposal that is balanced and that punishes in proportion to the crime committed. And it supports the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315121346	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. René Gade as rapporteur for the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315121353	In the alternative, we are against the bill here. It may be that we are getting wiser in the committee procedure, but we actually thought it was really interesting when, before the elections and before I entered politics and the alternative became part of the Parliamentary Assembly, we looked at whether community service could become an even more used form of sanction than it had been in the past. Then we have heard some examples of cases where community service certainly does not make sense. It may be that it will be the overwhelming impression that we find out that we are positive about the legislative proposal. But I certainly miss some analysis, which is both qualitative and quantitative. So, are we being discouraged by these horrible examples, where it sounds ridiculous that you've been allowed to serve with community service and then go out and commit violence over and over again? We cannot stand and argue that this is fair and reasonable. But at least I will try to ask some questions in committee so that we can clarify what reason says. In other words, have we had so many good cases with the use of community service that we cannot actually allow these examples of horror that sound quite glaring to dictate our way of legislating? I have to ask you about that, unfortunately I'm not sharp enough yet. Then I should like to make a comment on my good colleague, Mr President. Jan E. Jørgensen from the Left who finally answered my question that he was not quite sure that he understood what I meant by the question. And with his usual sense of humor, he said that it might not be that important if he did it either. And that's where I'm just gonna go into more detail with Mr. Knox. Jan E. Jørgensen, that I just said here from the platform now that I think it might be interesting to see whether there are more advantages than disadvantages in community service, as we have used it so far. And I recognize that Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen also sees the benefits of community service if it is otherwise used wisely. However, I think there has been a feeling that the examples of horror are those cases in which it sounds really foolish and terrible, because there are people who have repeatedly committed crime after they have received a conviction with community service, like that which defines our legislation, and that it is the sense of justice that is allowed to set the direction. We're not so much for that in the alternative. There we are more to the use of experts and empiri and the desire to do a comprehensive holistic analysis, where we then find out what is best possible. I am not sharp enough yet, but I will find out because I think it is an important debate myself.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315121609	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Lotte Rod as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315121616	Thank you. This is about the government restricting the use of ankle chains. I noticed that the rapporteur of the Left said this because we know now but the problem is that we do not know. That's the whole point. As the Council of Lawyers writes, no evaluation of our expansion of community service has been made. That is why we in the Radical Left feel that this bill seems to be an untimely interference. It seems like hurry. When we discuss this with what we are emphasising, whether it is the sense of justice or whether it is what works, I would say that, for us in the Radical Left, it is absolutely crucial that, when we make a new legal policy, we look at what it is, the professionals say what it is for research and knowledge we have, and then we do what works best to achieve what is at least our goal, namely to have less crime, to ensure that people do not fall back and commit the same crime once again, so that there are fewer people who are subjected to abuse. That is why I am also listening a great deal to the fact that the professionals in the field are writing to us in the hearings, and it is both Forsete, it is the National Association of Defence Attorneys, it is the Crime Prevention Council, and it is the Legal Policy Association that they do not believe that the community service should be restricted again. That is why I would call on the government, and here I should also welcome the SF, and say that instead of doing this, one should ask the Criminal Code Council and ask them for a professional opinion: what is really wise to do? For it is clear that if they come back to us and say: our professional assessment is that here we have gone too far, that it would be wiser to make the cut that the government is making, then we are happy to listen in the Radical Left. But if it's something you've just done in the government by just marking because you think it's right to do it, but without even having professionalism with you, then we say no in the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315121831	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Nase Khader as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315121843	Thank you. I do not like community service as a punishment for cases of personal crime. These are signs of disrespect for the victim. I understand that as a victim of violence you do not want to run into the assailant or woman, and I can understand that you do not want to run into the person shortly after the person has been sentenced. In the Conservative People's Party, we are always on the side of the victims, and when we, as politicians, start showing more consideration for criminals than for the victims, we have failed our citizens. At any rate, this is something I am very concerned about, especially after my daughter was attacked a few years ago and not long after that met her assault women. That simply cannot be right. It is not acceptable to the victims that they should be able to meet their attackers/women on the street right after the sentence has been handed down. Our legal system has a duty to ensure the safety of the victims, and it is a duty that we must take seriously. Now, in the debate on this proposal, a great deal has been said about the importance of focusing on re-socialisation in the context of punishment, which is why I think it is important that it is said that we recognise the importance of re-socialisation, but we just think that this consideration should never outweigh consideration for the victim and for the sense of justice. Because the sense of justice is being violated for a lot of Danes, including myself, when these cases come out. We must recognise that the legislation to date has simply not provided the victims of violence with the protection that they should and must have from the legal system, but we now have the opportunity to change that and we therefore welcome this proposal with open arms. We owe it to the victims of violence to take their case seriously and to punish the perpetrators in this way so that the victims can feel safe. That is why the Conservative People's Party can support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315122048	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. And then I give the floor to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315122058	I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their contributions and the general support for the draft law. It is important for the government that persons who commit crime meet with a punishment that reflects the seriousness of the offence committed. It is the case today that cases of violence often end up with a conditional sentence, with conditions relating to community service, sometimes even cases that lie within the harsher end of violent trials. Behind every act of violence there is a victim who is often left behind with both physical and psychic men. It cannot be right that you have been attacked so badly that you have had your nose broken and that you will meet your assailant on the street shortly after that. This does not adequately reflect the violation of the victim by such an attack. In this type of case, we need to make it more clear to the perpetrator that his or her action is not acceptable. The draft law therefore proposes to limit the scope of the use of community services in cases of violence. This means that in future, as a clear starting point, some cases of violence will have to be settled by unconditional imprisonment. In cases of simple violence, certain circumstances will in future lead to a clear starting point not being imposed on community service. This applies, firstly, in cases where the accused has previously been punished for violence or other perilous crime. It cannot be said that a conditional sentence with conditions of community service can be released once you have been punished for violence. Secondly, in cases where violence has been committed against a particularly defenceless victim, for example. A child. We have seen examples of cases in which a parent has subjected his child to violence over a long period of time, and in such cases community service is simply not enough. Finally, in cases where the injured party has suffered no minor damage, for example: a broken nose or psychological injury requiring treatment by a psychologist. With these comments, I would once again like to thank the rapporteurs for their speeches, and I look forward to the further discussion here in the House.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315122311	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315122325	The debate is open. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). Daniel Toft Jakobsen as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315122343	Thank you. The Danish public libraries are a central institution in relation to the Danes' education, information and entertainment. They are essential for citizens' access to information, literature and cultural heritage. We must therefore ensure that libraries have good operating conditions so that the Danes can have a good and coherent library system in the future too. The purpose of this bill is to jointly give municipalities the overall responsibility for establishing, maintaining and making available a database containing the national bibliography, data on the material stock in libraries and library cataloguing. Together these things go under the name of the national common library catalogue, and I understand that it is actually called "the catalogue" in this context. I would normally say this catalogue, but this is called the National Common Library Catalogue. That's the way it is. The task has so far been carried out jointly by the State and the municipalities through the DBC, the Danish Library Centre, and what is planned here is that the municipalities will jointly act as sole owners of the DBC in the future. DBC therefore continues as a publicly owned company with the municipalities as sole owner. This is done as the bill says, in order to allocate the overall responsibility and funding of the task to one public body, so that the focus on the overall nature of the task is strengthened and a clear management relationship is established with the operator on the task. In fact, the bill is a natural consequence and a follow-up to the agreement that was made on these things between the state and the KL, and in the Social Democracy we support the proposal. However, there are some things in the hearing that we think it is worth paying attention to. Firstly, it is important for the Social Democratic Party that the country's state libraries continue to influence these things, even if the overall responsibility is now being transferred to the municipalities. Secondly, of course we are also concerned that the funds that the State has so far transferred to the DBC, but which in future will go to the municipalities, will actually continue to go to the library area. However, as I have said, we in the Social Democratic Party believe that this is a sensible legislative proposal which can help ensure that the Danes have an effective and coherent library system in the future too.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315122616	Thank you to the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315122633	Thank you, President. The bill deals with the Danish Library Centre. It actually concerns a digital national infrastructure, and the State then transfers its share to the National Association of Municipalities, a share that has been held since 1994 when it went into bankruptcy of its predecessor to the DBC. And we support the proposal, but we do have a few comments and some questions which we hope will be resolved along the way. So what's DBC? Yes, DBC is responsible for the national bibliography, that is. all Danish publications; you have an overview of all books in the public libraries; you maintain a database, i.e. Danbib, with all the information about the books in the libraries, and last but not least, there is www.bibliotek.dk, which is a very favored and used website to find books. In addition, you also have Filmstranet.dk and under Filmstranet.dk you will have Sofaraekken.dk, and I will return to that in a moment. It really makes sense now that DBC is running on track, that the state is giving up its share and handing it over to the municipality, and we have of course ensured that it is still the Ministry of Culture, that is, the State, which sets national standards, as the National Association of Municipalities has also wanted. Then, of course, we note that the net cost goes with the municipalities, which is also good, and even additional funds are being allocated. Since it is a question of digital infrastructure, I have already had some discussions with the Minister and the Ministry about the consequences of our doing so. In other words, could it mean that KL, if they now got a great offer from Amazon, could sell what they are now being entrusted with? It's been a little special to get the explanations. It's also been very exciting to get the explanations for DBC as a box can be sold, but the task keeps the municipality. That task can be offered and, as far as I understand, it can be compared with the state keeping the rails, but selling DSB or providing the train operation. But the infrastructure is still in Danish hands, and we can therefore endorse this proposal, because that uncertainty is gone. KL retains the task itself, it is written into the legislative notes, and there I would like to thank the Minister for having listened to it. We are very pleased about that. There are some little things that I think we should sort out. DBC is responsible for Filmstriben.dk, which is an excellent website where you can go in and borrow movies, just as you can borrow books. Besides, you have Sofarakken.dk., and I don't understand that. For there you can go in and rent films for a fee, even films that have recently been in the cinema and where there are private people who offer the same. So it is not a public task to do this, and I hope that the Minister will take it up, especially as a liberal minister. In any case, I would like to ask questions about that. Then we will also have to look at how many times DBC has had its purchases in tenders since the state went into it. I have some doubts as to whether there has been a proper policy in this area. Then I have been informed that there has been a dispute between the Danish Digital Library and the DBC. I'd like to get that straightened out. Then we'll have to look at some of those IT systems and how they are designed, that is, which DBC should use, and whether they're publicly owned. However, I will put the question in writing so that we can hopefully get answers in committee. On the small linguistic point: I also noted that there was the catalogue. You can actually say a catalogue. It's a little unusual, but the Language Board says so. I would also say a catalogue, but you can say both, like circuses, which are both circuses and circuses. There are so many things about the Danish language. But these were the words of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315123058	Thank you. Then we got the grammar in place. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Next in line, sir. Øjvind Vilsholm as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315123120	Thank you. As a starting point, the Enhedslisten is positive about the draft law on the operation of the National Common Library Catalogue. However, we believe that there are several unresolved issues that we would like to explore further. And it may in fact be very parallel to previous rapporteurs. We are pleased that the operation of the national joint library catalogue has continued to be carried out by the public authorities. There is a clear logic and sense in ensuring that the central data infrastructure for Danish libraries remains in public ownership. In addition, we also believe that there can be advantages in bringing together the tasks of the National Common Library Catalogue, so that there are more uniform standards, and that overall library cataloguing can provide more access to more data and knowledge for individual libraries and thus the users of libraries. Enhedslisten sees the advantages of it for individual students, children's families, pensioners etc. can be easier to acquire knowledge through libraries, whether by electronic access or physical lending. That is why we can also see a number of advantages in ensuring a more comprehensive solution, which makes the credit cooperation of libraries simpler, thereby providing better access for all to the national common library directory. It is important for Enhedslisten to ensure that in the change from the state to the cost of the national joint library catalogue, to the fact that the municipalities jointly take ownership of DBC A/S through KL, there will be no accidental savings in the public libraries. The funding of block grants unfortunately allows the funds for libraries to be channelled away from the area. For this reason, Enhedslisten believes that it must be ensured that the funding is actually going to the intended purpose. The Enhedslisten takes a critical view of the reduced influence on the state and research libraries, as noted in the consultations from the Danish Library Association, the professional colleges, the Royal Library and several universities. The draft law lacks a clear clarification of a governance structure or, in Danish, principles of management, which ensure that the State libraries and research libraries will also influence the future development of the national joint library catalogue. This is among other things. a necessity to ensure that access to the latest literature research, etc. thus helping our students, researchers and other interested parties not to be prevented from being updated and to deliver the best and latest research. It is at the heart of Enhedslisten to stress the importance of state involvement in the library system, and by adopting the bill it must be ensured that there continues to be a development of cooperation between state and local authorities in the field of library for the benefit of all users. The Enhedslisten urges the Minister to ensure that in general the discussions of the Ministry of Culture with KL ensure a thorough involvement of all relevant partners. Among other things, it can be done. be in the development of the ordering function of the future, which the Danish Library Association requests. We look forward to the committee reading, where the answer to our questions will be crucial to our final position on the legislative proposal. And I would also like to welcome the alternative, which has the same concerns as us, and which is also looking forward to having the questions answered in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315123500	Thank you for that greeting. It's noted. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we have come to Mrs Christina Egelund as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315123512	Thank you very much. The National Common Library Catalogue is an important tool in an increasingly digitalised everyday life. This bill brings together the responsibility for handling the catalogue at one body, namely at the National Association of Municipalities. This is a simplification compared with today, when responsibility is shared between the state and the municipalities. And, as in the development of all sorts of other systems, it is most productive and the most appropriate that responsibility has a unique owner. The Liberal Alliance supports the bill, and I have promised to salute the Left and say that they do.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315123559	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then the trip has come to Mrs Marianne Jelved as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315123610	Danish LibraryCenter is a fascinating institution or company. I have actually visited it once and could unhinge everyone to try to get into the rooms and the places where they work on these key issues. It's an important task they're doing. The National bibliography and library cataloguing are key documents for all of us in a society like the Danish one, and fortunately the Danish Library Center is also well consolidated and has a solid operating economy. The company is characterised in a very special way by being owned jointly by the State and KL. And this is where we have the news in the bill, namely that the state must now step out of this and transfer ownership to KL, that is to say to all the municipalities' common in Denmark. It will be KL that will own it with the municipalities. This will work well, I think, because, as is also very graphically described in the comments to the draft law, it is a very well run company. The Radical Left is happy to support it. And there is one thing I think I would like to take note of in this context, which is that I am even smiling, and it is that it is established that this company is so well run that it has not been found the tasks of procurement. This is the first time in many, many years I have heard it in this Chamber. I find that interesting. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315123757	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Jacob Mark as rapporteur for the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315123803	Thank you. The draft law brings together responsibility for tasks relating to the national joint library catalogue of the municipalities. This happens after a dialogue and an agreement between the state and the KL. As a starting point, I think it's okay when, as a state and KL, you agree to assign some tasks to each other. That's why, even when we first introduced this, I was positive about the idea. What I think is a little important when we have to finish this, is, as other rapporteurs have said, that this will not be an opportunity to save a great deal of money in our library system. The Danish Library Association believes that this could save 37 million. kr., and as I understand both the Minister and also the talk we have had about this proposal, it is certainly not intended that this is what it is meant for. So I think we should send out a clear signal on that. In any case, we will write in the contribution to the report that it is quite clear that we do not think this is the intention. In addition, as has also been raised by others, there is a concern about cooperation between municipalities and research libraries, and it is specifically recommended that a forum be set up with the participation of municipal libraries, KL, state libraries and professional colleges. That's where the Ministry writes that you're already looking at that. I hope you look at it so much that you intend to follow it up, because I think that is important for the coherence of our library system. In addition, we think it is a fine bill and we support it in the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315123950	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the Minister for Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315124002	Thank you. Thank you to all the rapporteurs for the comments on the draft law. The National Common Library Catalogue is, after all, a central tool for the entire library system in a digital age. And just for the record, I say that now more people have said it and that is the freedom that they sometimes give on the part of the Board of Languages, namely that you have some different options. The draft law is intended, not least in view of the central importance of the catalogue, to bring together responsibility for the various tasks of establishing, maintaining and making available in one body, namely the municipalities through KL. Today, as several rapporteurs have also pointed out, responsibility is shared between the state and municipalities, which thus also has a shared ownership of the performing company, DBC A/S, which was formerly called the Danish Library Centre. For some time now, we have seen that the shared ownership and responsibility have stood a little in the way of an optimal further development of the task solution. Given that the public libraries clearly weigh most heavily in the user circle of the national common library catalogue, it has been natural that responsibility and ownership should be brought together in the municipalities through KL. The Ministry of Culture has been negotiating this with KL for a long time, and I will not hide the fact that the negotiations have been about finding a model that assures KL in terms of getting the right framework for the task, even though the state is no longer a party. I would also like to emphasise that it has actually been possible to find such a model through good conversations. It involves transferring finance from the municipalities to the State budget for the previous tasks, and KL is very aware that it must be ensured that the money continues to follow the task and is currently considering how best to ensure it. The municipalities will then also be given extensive freedom in relation to how the task is to be solved. In other words, the municipalities are not bound to do the task via DBC A/S. Municipalities can offer the task or share it if they find it more attractive. However, it will continue to be the state, and it is of course very crucial that the standards for the preparation of the national bibliography are set, as this is a task which needs to be solved in accordance with international standards. I would like to add that there is, moreover, full agreement that, whatever the new solution to the national joint library catalogue, good cooperation between the state and the municipalities on the development of the public library area must of course continue. I myself have been very pleased with the library dialogues that I have had with the Chairman of the KL's Committee on Business, Culture and Planning, Leon Sebbelin. KL and the Ministry of Culture are currently discussing how best to organise cooperation in the future. Finally, I would like to point out that the draft law deals with the collection of responsibility for the tasks of the KL and, hopefully, when the proposal is adopted, as there are indications, and there is a final agreement on the sale of the Danish Ministry of Culture's ownership of the DBC, that agreement will be submitted to the Danish Parliament's Finance Committee. Some questions have been raised by the rapporteurs along the way, and we will of course answer them willingly, so I wait for us to get the questions over, and we will answer them. I look forward to a good further discussion and I am available for committee reading. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315124345	Thank you, and there is a brief comment from Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315124349	This question can be dealt with politically in principle. After all, the minister is liberal and belongs to a liberal party. My question is on Sofarakken.dk. So, Filmstriben.dk is an excellent institution in the sense that you can access films that are no longer on the market free of charge, just like through the e-reol when you borrow books. But in addition, there is Sofarakken.dk, where you have to pay to rent a movie. Does the Minister think it is a good idea for a publicly owned institution to compete with existing private companies in this way? And wouldn't the Minister like to have a talk with the DBC about not doing something like that?
ParlaMint-DK_20190315124430	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315124431	There are two things in this. One is what concerns the organisation and ownership itself. The second is what lies in the task. I personally do not know Sofaraekken.dk, but I would suggest that the rapporteur should just put a written question on it. Then I'll dig into what it's all about and look at it. This is hardly something that needs to be resolved in this bill, since we are in touch with the substance of the task portfolio. But if I get a question over, I'll just try digging into it and getting it elucidated.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315124501	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315124502	It's fair enough that you don't know about Sofarakken.dk. Not many people do. In principle, however, a public undertaking should not offer anything that already exists in the private market. I would really like the Minister's answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315124517	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315124518	As a Liberal, I fully agree with that. However, we have a problem in a number of areas where the question is how to define that it exists as a private tender for what the public would deliver. We have it, for example. In gyms I'm just thinking about where we have a number of publicly funded institutions that offer something like that, and we also have some private ones who do it. And it is, of course, a question of continuing dialogue and conversation about where exactly that is going to be. However, in principle, it is clear that, as a liberal, I think it is a good idea when private individuals can carry out a task for which the public does not need to spend resources.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315124557	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Culture. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190315124613	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 19 March 2019 at 10:00. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
