ParlaMint-DK_20191210130006	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210130013	I give the floor to the Prime Minister for an introductory statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210130026	Thank you for that and, above all, thank you to the Radical Left, the SF, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative. It became a very good financial law. We have jointly decided to put welfare first, and we have, I might say, agreed the greenest financial law for a very long time. Already after the Finance Act we took the next step: a Climate Act • ambitious, binding and broad. Thank you to all of you here in the Danish Parliament who are part of the Climate Act. Fortunately, this is true of the vast majority. Part of the funding under the Finance Act is through targeted tax increases and by allowing the widest shoulders to bear the most inheritance tax, parental purchases. We also find money in some other places where we are going in the right direction at the same time. We are fighting plastic pollution and we are doing so, for example. More expensive to play. And then we save money for consultants in the state, just as the Social Democrats said before the elections. We need to use community money wisely and responsibly. We politicians have to keep that in mind every day. This also applies to the civil servants. Of course, citizens must be able to trust that the money paid in tax will be well taken care of. When you are employed in the public sector, you manage the community fund. This requires care, and it requires zeal, which is why, of course, the government takes a very serious view of the accusations that there are about fraud in a Ministry of Defence board. The government also takes very seriously the National Audit Office's criticism of the Board and the Ministry of Defence's control. It is as some of you know, an accountant from Holstebro who has brought this case forward, and he has said it like this: "I got mad at the way the defense spends money. In this city, we have day care institutions to save and lay off. That is exactly what this is all about: whoever cheats in the public sector takes money from our common welfare. That is why, of course, I am also pleased that today, at a press conference a few hours ago, the Minister for Defence has presented what we intend to do in this matter. Another issue that has been under discussion recently is the question of the EU budget. Unfortunately, I think there has been some uncertainty about the position of the Left. On the part of the government, we want to keep the EU budget at 1%. and to hold on to the Danish rebate and that we are pushing on to ensure that the EU reduces administrative costs. I have to ask you today whether the Left really wants a higher EU budget. And is that what Denmark is going to be working for? more EU employees at a time when a Member State is faced with leaving the cooperation? I hope for a clear answer at Question Time today, and I do so because later this week I will go to Brussels and hopefully defend the Danish views on a responsible EU budget, making sure that we can respond to the challenges facing our people in the climate crisis, migration and to make an extra effort towards Africa. But we have to do all this on the basis of decisions to be taken here in the Folketing. I hope that a broad majority will support the government in continuing the position of the previous government on an EU budget of 1%. I would also like to thank today the North Atlantic mandates for good cooperation, most recently on the Finance Act. A North Atlantic pool has been decommissioned. Thanks to a large majority of Parliament's parties for granting 80 million. kr. over the next 4 years to give priority to vulnerable children and young people in Greenland. These are the means with which we can play our part once the recommendations from the work that has been started have been made. We must do more for Greenlandic children; it is unhappy and sad, but also necessary. For this reason, a few other words about international relations and cooperation, not least in the Arctic: the security of the Kingdom community is becoming increasingly important. Fortunately, therefore, in the past week we have received the support of the Danish Parliament to bring about the defence settlement that has been concluded. We have jointly decided to spend 1.5 billion. kr. extra for e.g. Monitoring in the Arctic. I also had a conversation with the President of the United States about this when I was at the NATO summit in London. Of course, we will be discussing the implementation of the funds with the national leaders both in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands. We already agreed on that. However, thank you once again for your good cooperation on the Finance Act, and thank you for an exceptionally good course of action by one of the best climate laws in the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210130536	Thank you to the Prime Minister for his statement. We now turn to questions from the party leaders. The questioner and the Prime Minister first have up to two minutes' speaking time and then follow two follow-up questions where the questioner and Prime Minister each have 1 minute's speaking time. It is first Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210130554	Thank you very much. From here, thanks are also due for a good cooperation and also thanks for the money that was allocated to vulnerable children and young people in Greenland. Now to a whole different subject. Defence Intelligence puts the Arctic at the top of the list of priorities, and the Atlantic Association notes that Greenland is of fundamental strategic importance for Denmark and the United States and we could continue to do so. In recent times there have been many newspaper headlines about Greenland, and last week the prime minister in London was at the NATO summit, as the Prime Minister himself mentioned, and before the meeting the Prime Minister announced that an extra 1.5 billion. kr. In the defence settlement was to be used to strengthen surveillance in Greenland. These are all important priorities from the point of view of Greenland. We must keep the area in Greenland peaceful by strengthening surveillance in the huge geostrategic area, which is getting more and more attention and which we call our home. In IA we live by a core principle: nothing about us, without us, no discussions about Greenland and the Arctic without Greenland. It is therefore also important for us to establish that Greenland is the Arctic and the Arctic is Greenland in the Kingdom Community. Therefore: When the Arctic is discussed, Greenland is also discussed. Without Greenland Denmark did not have a place in the Arctic Council, and the Danish contribution to NATO would probably look quite different. Following the NATO summit, a bilateral meeting was also held with the United States. That is why we also believe that the declarations of Itilleq and Igaliku have been disregarded at this bilateral meeting, and we believe that Greenland should have been present at this meeting. And with that in mind, we would like to ask the Prime Minister: has Greenland been sufficiently involved in this matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210130746	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210130749	I very, very much agree that when we discuss the common affairs of the Kingdom Community, we do so together, and we do so in a proper and respectful manner. This is the basis for the government's work on the foreign and security policy stage and in our relations, and it is for me both with the lagman and the chairman of the national government. This also applies to the Arctic and to security policy challenges. Making a joint declaration on a strategic partnership with the Americans in relation to the Arctic is a work that we have decided to set in motion with the Faroe Islands and Greenland. And I think that's the right way to do it. I have arranged a meeting very soon again with both the chairman and the layman in relation to the further process. And it is the Commonwealth that is part of a strategic partnership with the United States when it comes to the Arctic. I think this is the right way to take action, and I am also pleased that the Americans are signing for it and have taken a positive step in that work. I believe this will strengthen the Arctic, and it will also strengthen the Kingdom Community, the United States and our close relationship. When it comes to the meeting that I myself held bilaterally with the President of the United States, I must of course be able to do so as the Prime Minister of Denmark. It wasn't a meeting that was about anything specific. It was a working meeting on the relationship between Denmark and the United States. It also concerned the Arctic, of course, because the Arctic is on everyone's agenda. But of course, as the Prime Minister of Denmark, I must be able to hold a bilateral meeting with the President of the United States and fight for the interests of the Kingdom community, and this applies, of course, to the whole Kingdom community.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210130934	Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210130936	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister himself has said, and I quote: "The time has run from Danish politicians deciding Greenland's foreign policy... It is of no use that you sit in Copenhagen and assess what is important for Greenland and the Faroe Islands. ▪ That is why many of us in Greenland, after the elections, were happy that the Prime Minister understood the desire to speak with a stronger voice when it comes to foreign policy and security policy in relation to the Arctic and Greenland. We were particularly pleased to see a minister of the Kingdom community who would actually follow up his words. Prior to the NATO summit, the Minister for the Commonwealth said that Greenland and the Arctic would of course be discussed, as was also the case at the bilateral meeting where several Danish ministers attended. I would like to ask you a very specific question: Was Naala Suisut invited? e.g. The chairman of the Naala Suisut, sir. Kim Kielsen, invited to the bilateral meeting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210131033	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210131034	It was a bilateral meeting held between the US President and the Danish Prime Minister. Then, of course, you have the companionship of some of the other delegates who are present at a NATO summit and of those I have close to me by the way. I think it is important, when we talk about NATO membership, that it is Denmark that is a member of NATO, and it is the United States that is a member of NATO, and it was under the auspices of our NATO cooperation that the meeting took place. But I think it is very, very important to hold on to the fact that it is extremely important that the Danish Prime Minister has a good relationship with the President of the United States, that one can meet when the opportunity presents itself, and that one is of course available for the discussions that both parties wish. When it comes to the Arctic and it is about the Kingdom Community, it is my task to keep a close dialogue with both the Faroe Islands and Greenland. And I stand by my words that I fully understand both a Faroese and a Greenlandic desire for greater elbow space in foreign policy. But that does not change the fact that it is in the interest of the Danish Prime Minister to have a good relationship with the President of the United States. Fortunately, the Danish Prime Minister has.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210131146	Aaja Chemnitz Larsen for the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210131148	Thank you very much. It's not really something that we go in and challenge with these questions either. IA believes that we have the right to adopt a position even if we are not a state for our foreign policy and our security policy and, of course, there is no doubt that it must be brought together with Denmark in non-repatriated areas. But we believe that Greenland should play a greater role, and we also believe that there are some expectations that have not been met by not having followed its words in relation to securing it. We saw it with Pompeo, for example, where there was also the possibility that Greenland could sit at the table. So that's what we think is obvious. After the meeting with President Trump, the Prime Minister mentioned that a strategic partnership had to be drawn up. Will the Prime Minister reveal what it can be and how it will ensure that Greenland and the Faroe Islands are involved?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210131234	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210131235	The Arctic Strategic Partnership is a partnership between the Kingdom Community on the one hand and the United States on the other, and it is a work that goes back a little bit. It has been in the pipeline over a long period of time, and here was an opportunity not to discuss it in its content and substance yet, but to agree that we are working further, and it is, as I said before, with the Kingdom Community not Denmark, but the Kingdom Community on one side of the table and the United States on the other side, and I have agreed to an early meeting both with Greenland and the Faroe Islands and Denmark around the same table, where we take the next steps in relation to the partnership. There is no doubt that much of that partnership will be about security policy, including the implementation of the Danish defence settlement, but I also imagine that we will be discussing other issues. There is, of course, a wish, not least in Greenland, in relation to increased trade with the Americans and, in general, increasing cooperation. So I believe and believe that it may contain several things. But there is no doubt that security policy will play an important role, and it is in a community that we are doing this.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210131345	Thank you to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. The next question is Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210131356	Thank you. Qujanaq. There's a lot of focus on the Arctic around the world. The Prime Minister also pointed out this at the opening, and the Arctic plays a central role for Denmark, and the government attaches great importance to the area. This is also clear from the latest defence settlement, which was also mentioned, where the government wants to spend 1.5 billion. kr. for increased surveillance in the Arctic. Will the Prime Minister present his thoughts on monitoring and how important the Prime Minister thinks this issue is?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210131437	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210131439	Thank you for this question, too. I think the Arctic is important, the Arctic has always been important and important in itself. But it is clear that with the changes we are looking at in the area of security policy and also in the interests of the great powers, all three of us within the Kingdom Community are obliged to get the Arctic even higher on the agenda, and we are doing so well. When we talk about surveillance and the Arctic, it's all about more things in my eyes. It can be about satellite monitoring and radar building, it is about what is happening in the airspace, and it is also about what is happening in the sea. And just to reverse the latter, we have seen an increase in submarine activity on the Russian side over a period of time, and it is certainly a place where the government believes it will simply be obvious with a stronger capacity in terms of monitoring. This is, of course, something that we are in very close dialogue both with Greenland and the Faroe Islands about and must also be forward-looking, and we have a common task in and we have a common interest in securing what we share. However, it is clear that if we now start talking more systematically about monitoring in relation to the Arctic, it is because tensions are increasing and because we need to pay more attention to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210131602	Mrs. Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210131604	Thank you very much for your answer. Now for something completely different. In the Danish Finance Act a pool was set aside for the North Atlantic, and we have from that pool negotiated about the justice area and got just under 50 million. kr. over the next four years. After all, the area of justice is still a Danish area of responsibility, and the money for the area is a start, and we look forward very much to having managed to get this far after six months. However, the wage differences for government employees are still a major problem, and after a new government has arrived, it has also been told that the report, which was to bore out this pay gap, would be uncovered by the end of the year 2019. Now it is Christmas, and although it is a subject that I will also be discussing with the Minister for Justice, I would nevertheless like to ask the Prime Minister whether the Prime Minister is aware of the report and how far one is in the process of finalising the report.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210131708	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210131710	At any rate, I am aware of the fact that the work is ongoing, but the work has not yet been completed, and that is why I do not know the conclusions in it either. It is true that there is a problem, and I know about the problem, because it is not new, there are more issues about the justice area when we talk about Greenland, and that is something that we need to be aware of together. I am also delighted that this pool has been set aside, and I do not think that it is I who should be negotiating it here in Parliament. I have very much faith that this is going to happen well somewhere else. It is clear that once the work on this is completed, there is also reason to take the discussion the next steps. I am fully aware of the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210131756	Mrs. Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210131759	I have little more to say than thank you for today, and I hope that the monitoring will prove that Santa now actually exists in Greenland. 'Cause I guess we can be together about that. But thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210131813	I consider the question to be over. That is why we move on to Mr. Edmund Joensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210131826	First of all, thank you for the good cooperation we have had on our joint marine research project. Madam Prime Minister, the latest risk assessment by the Defence Intelligence Service states: "There are now clear outlines of a security policy game between Russia and the United States in particular, but it also includes China, and all three countries have significant strategic and economic interests in the region. • Further it says: • Security policy developments will also affect the Kingdom of Denmark's room for manoeuvre in the Arctic. It is likely that it will increasingly be challenging to balance the consideration of allies and the defence of the Kingdom of Denmark's strategic interests against the desire to maintain the ambition of a low level of tension. That is why my question is: Can the Prime Minister give us an insight into how it will be challenging to balance the consideration of the allies and the defence of the kingdom's strategic interests against the desire to stick to the ambition of a low level of tension? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210132003	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210132005	I am not sure, and I can give a full answer to it in as short a time as there is in a question hour, because it is a big, important and very fundamental question that is raised here. As far as the issue of our cooperation with our allies is concerned, there is no doubt in my mind: we cannot become a lice between two nails when it comes to the great powers and various interests, because in my view the United States is our most important ally, and it is with the United States that we organise very, very large parts of our foreign and security policy. It is important for me to say this at the outset. This does not mean that we cannot also have very good cooperation with China, for example, when it comes to trade and other things. However, in security policy, one must also dare to stand by what has been rounded off and who is one's closest ally, and I am glad that NATO came out of the summit held in London last week and that Denmark, too, was given the opportunity to mark that it is the United States that is our most important ally when it comes to security policy. That is also true when we discuss the Arctic. That is where I think it is my job to look after the interests of the Kingdom Community, and it is clear that the aim is, of course, low-voltage and to ensure peaceful coexistence throughout the Arctic, but the whole time with a watchful eye on the changes that are taking place, for example with the Russian approach when it comes to submarine activity.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210132141	Edmund Joensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210132143	Thank you. Thank you for your answer. The Prime Minister was at the NATO meeting last week and met in this connection with the US President. A new strategic partnership has been agreed between the Kingdom Community and the United States, and this new partnership has been referred to by several media as an innovation, although we do not know the content of this strategic partnership. Can the Prime Minister explain this strategic partnership agreed with the President of the United States?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210132229	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210132231	At any rate, I can explain what is the intention and the idea of creating a strategic partnership, and that is to ensure closer coordination and closer cooperation and subsequent anchoring of the security policy dimension which concerns the Arctic between the Kingdom Community on the one hand and the United States on the other. And we have assessed, and the Americans have taken this idea very well, that we need more formalised and thus strategic cooperation, partnership. We must, of course, start negotiating the precise content. I also had the opportunity to talk to the Faroese lagman during the week, who went around this, because it is a kingdom community that enters into the cooperation. We'll meet in a very short time and discuss this further. It has been prepared over a period of time by our officials, both in Greenland, in the Faroe Islands and here in Denmark, and therefore I am not going to lay down a concrete content until the work has been provided, but it is clear that security policy will play a major role.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210132341	Sir. Edmund Joensen for his last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210132343	Thank you for your answer. It is impossible to escape China when we talk about the Arctic, the Commonwealth and geopolitics at all. For the Faroe Islands this is very topical at the moment, as the Chinese telegigant Huawei aims to build the 5G network on the islands. The United States is strongly opposed to China's presence in our region, which has become very clear recently. At the NATO meeting, when the Prime Minister met with the President of the United States, the final press conference said that today leaders are obliged to ensure the security of our telecommunications infrastructure, including 5G. We agreed to rely only on secure and robust systems. Can the Faroe Islands, which through the Kingdom of Denmark are part of NATO, the Allies, fail to fulfil these obligations?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210132504	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210132507	I believe that it is important for me to say that the telecommunications area has been repatriated by the Faroe Islands, which is why it is a Faroese issue and that the Faroe Islands have a good opportunity to consult when it comes to cybersecurity and thus consult the Cybersecurity Centre. But the area has been taken home, and that is why I think it is such that it is a Faroese matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210132539	Then we'll thank Edmund Joensen. The question is closed. We move on to Mr. Sjúrður Skaale. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210132545	Thank you. And now for something quite different, as one used to say in Monty Python, something quite different from the wedges that could potentially be knocked into the Kingdom community these days, when one is Chinese telecommunications, one is trading with Russia, one is American radar installation etc. These are very important things, but I doubt the Prime Minister can say so much about it in such a Question Time. But when there is much that can separate, it is also important to focus on what can unite. So I want to talk about culture. This book that I have is, in my opinion, the main work in the Faroe Islands' finest writing. The novel is called "The Good Hope" and is written in Danish, but it has emerged from the Faroese society, and we therefore count it as a Faroese novel. In the Faroe Islands it is also so that you can use Danish in many public affairs; it determines the home government law. The same law requires all children to learn Danish at school, and we spend a lot of resources on that. In the Faroe Islands you do not see Danish as a foreign language, but as a known language. However, within Danish teaching and culture, Faroese is considered a foreign language without any rights whatsoever. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister whether she agrees that Faroese, now that it is a national language within the Danish Empire, should not be put in the same category as French, Spanish, Swahili, etc., and whether Danish cultural and educational institutions should not have the door open to projects that take place in Faroese in whole or in part.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210132745	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210132747	We're getting around a lot in this discussion. I was just confused for a moment that Swahili also became involved in the discussion, and I think that after all we are closer to the Faroese language than to what is spoken in East Africa. I think there's something interesting about this question. Well, we're a kingdom community. We all have a huge interest in keeping our cultural heritage alive, including our language. There is no one else who speaks the three languages, except the three of us, who are in the Kingdom Community, and I would very much like to be involved in further discussions. I know that the whole cultural area has been taken back to the Faroe Islands, and it is possible that it gives some limitations, but the intention in the question is to keep the language alive and use cultural cooperation to strengthen our community.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210132843	Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210132845	Thank you very much. Yes, the cultural area is reclaimed, but this is about what kind of framework you give Faroese in Denmark. I raise the issue because I know people in the film industry who have applied for support to produce films which are only partly in Faroese and are only partially admitted to the Faroe Islands and which have been rejected on the grounds that a film admitted to the Faroe Islands is considered to be a foreign film and that Faroese is considered to be a foreign language. Danish films have of course been made in the Faroe Islands in Danish, but not very many. In the last few years a number of Swedish, Icelandic and Norwegian films and TV series have been made in the Faroe Islands. And lately we know that even James Bond has sat in a Faroese village and enjoyed his Dry Martini shaken, but not stared so it's a good scene. Therefore, I would like to ask: Does the Prime Minister think that it might be a good thing for both parties to open up both Denmark and the Faroe Islands, so that an instructor applying for support from the Danish Film Institute cannot be rejected only because of culture, language and geography, if it is within the Kingdom Community?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210133000	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210133002	I was just about to mention it myself with James Bond, but the questioner got ahead of me. Well, I think there's a reason to keep looking at this. I don't want to close the door. I would very much like to see stronger cultural cooperation as well. Whether what we speak is Greenlandic, Faroese or Danish, it is small language areas in a rather tough global competition when it comes to the development and production of films, so if we can help each other in any way and thus strengthen the kingdom community, then I think there is reason to look further at it. So that is really just a positive response, without, of course, knowing in depth the film support rules, but I think the intention is good.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210133044	Sjúrður Skaale for last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210133046	Thank you. I do not have much more to ask, and I am pleased with that answer; that is something I can go on with. But I'm thinking that if there's some directors or scriptwriters out there, I could just give you an idea. This book I'm holding will be the best movie ever. It is about the work of the Danish priest Peder Børresen in the 1600s Thorshavn. It is about the flame of good hope in a very dark world. And it is true that cultural cooperation is also a necessary light flame in a world characterised by strategic interests, power struggles, military and so on. If this movie gets made, I'd like to invite the Prime Minister to the cinema at that time. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210133200	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210133202	I think I will start by reading the book, which unfortunately I have not had the opportunity to read. And I would just like to reiterate that cultural cooperation between the Faroe Islands, Greenland and Denmark is very important. I think it is interesting when we discuss community affairs, what we often do in such more general terms. And when I saw myself last in the Faroe Islands and was with a group of young people and asked how many of them imagined living and living in Denmark for one reason or another, most of them raised their hands. So in everyday life we are deeply integrated in relation to each other, and this should of course also be reflected in our cultural life and in the way we live together and there art plays a really important role. So it's a call to go ahead with this idea, and then we'll see what's of opportunity, but the intention seems to me both beautiful and beautiful.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210133235	The question is over. Thank you, sir. Sjúrður Skaale. The next question is Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210133241	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the Prime Minister for the introduction, including on one of the issues I will address. After all, the Prime Minister spoke in his opening speech here on 1 October about the importance of trust in Danish society. I am pleased with the Prime Minister's approach here today too, which is, of course, about one of the best things about Denmark being that we trust each other, and we must be able to have that trust. We have seen a few cases here lately, which unfortunately have shattered that confidence, first with an employee of the Ministry of Social Affairs, who seems to have a major stud in South Africa, and most recently with employees of the Ministry of Defence, who seem to have had private summerhouses repaired and other things for the funds that should go to train and protect our soldiers. It undermines, of course, if such matters continue to come forward, the confidence of the citizens that our common fund is being used as it should be, and as bad as it is, it risks undermining confidence in the skilled employees who sit around and with great respect for the task and great zeal precisely managing our common fund. Not any of these things we can be served with. I think that when you look at this a little from the outside, it gives a little impression that we're gonna do this as these cases turn up. It is not a criticism of the government, because it has always done so, but I am not sure that this is the best way to do it. I think we need to do this in a more systematic way, with the latest cases in mind, to have a more systematic examination of whether the mechanisms of ministries and agencies are strong enough so that these matters do not continue to pop up and so that we come up with concrete solutions for what we can do better. I have noted in today's press that the Enhedslisten, the Conservatives and the Danish People's Party support such a model, so I want to know if the government will also support such a systematic cross-cutting study, including sampling and recommendations on how to do this better.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210133507	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210133509	First of all, thank you for the words that I share. How strong it is that we can stand in the Chamber today and really have a proper discussion with each other about what we are doing about it, which I agree with is a breach of trust. It does not matter what public funds are being rigged with, swindled with or not being properly handled. And in order to be sure to be able to request it, we must also be able to say to the Danes with completely open eyes and without shaking hands that the money is managed as it should. So there is a very special problem about one of the authorities in the defence and, incidentally, the department's handling of this matter. There is a meeting this evening between Parliament's parties on how to deal with it. I hope that all parties have the opportunity to take part in this work so that we can deal with those problems. Then there is a more general discussion which I would very much like to enter into. For now we have seen two major fraud cases, and can I face the Danes today and guarantee that nothing more is expected? I have no knowledge of it, but I cannot guarantee that there is no more. That is why I think there is a need to go deeper. How exactly we are going to do that, I would very much like to discuss it. I understand that the Heads of State or Government have the same idea of having some facts revealed that are actually going across ministries and that are, of course, about how we ensure that the major operational ministries are properly run in relation to the money that is between their hands. So I'm happy to go into that discussion. We must, of course, be careful that we do not just put the State auditors to rest in this context, but the discussion is right, and it is necessary, and if we can do so in the spirit that the whole parliament is responsible for clearing up the specific problems that exist, and it is ensured that something similar cannot happen in the five-year period, then I think it is an exceptionally good result from a very sad background. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210133722	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210133724	It is always good when we can agree on things in the Chamber, and this is no exception. One can always discuss form and procedure and how we do it, and that is actually what I am proposing. My concern with regard to the approach of the State auditors is that the next meeting of the National Audit Office will take place here sometime at the end of January, and that we will then once again be leaning on what the talented people are bringing in here. I therefore believe that there is a need for us politically, and this is really the hand I reach out to the Prime Minister in the Folketing and also in the government, it is my call, saying that this is something we want to take care of, it is something we want to investigate, it is something where we are also ready to find the resources that may be needed to carry out such an investigation.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210133838	Thank you. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210133840	Yes, and the State auditors are so appointed by the Danish Parliament and not by the government, so I assume that the Danish Parliament's parties have thought carefully about this before starting the work that has been started. For me, it is not crucial how exactly we deal with this. What matters to me is that we have this discussion taken the next step forward. I welcome the way in which action is being taken in relation to what is happening in the field of defence. And then, as I said, I'm happy to enter into a discussion with Parliament's parties, which makes the government happy to discuss how we do this most wisely. However, I think that this should be done in some way, in cooperation with what has been initiated by the State auditors. But that's not what's gonna separate us. Because we have a huge responsibility to ensure that things are going right. I think there are also some discussions waiting for us on how the central administration is taking up this major operational task in general in relation to all the other tasks which also lie within the central administration. So let's continue the dialogue on how to do this smartest, and if it's with a whole Parliament, it'll only be right, really fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210133944	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210133946	I can't imagine anything but it can. Because when I listen a little bit around the Chamber here, the outrage is obvious. I would just like to make sure and appeal to the Prime Minister to have some discussions called, to sit down for this figuratively speaking and to say that this is something that we must also politically commit ourselves to and express a clear political desire to give priority to. I don't think that's gonna be the right thing to do. I don't think that's what people out here are waiting for us to say that we're gonna have to wait for the Reich Audit and hear what they have to say. I think we need to say politically that this is something we want, this is something we want to prioritise and that the government is taking the lead in this. Because we owe it to the people who manage our common fund to treat them properly, to remove them from suspicion, and we owe it to the whole of Denmark to take the common fund seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210134040	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210134042	I agree very much. That, of course, is also why we are reacting quickly and, some will also think, a little sharp on the situation in the defence right now. We will do so if there are similar cases and, as I said before, I would like to enter into a discussion on how we do it across ministries as well. It is quite serious when the Community's crowns and ears are not cared for, and it is of course also serious when concerns and warnings are ignored in the central administration. So there is a clean-up work, and at least as important is also work to ensure that it does not take place elsewhere. So let's get to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210134124	The question is over. Thank you, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. The next question is Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210134129	Thank you for that, President. And I would also like to thank the Prime Minister for the preliminary remarks he made at this Question Time. The Prime Minister was among others. in writing. - (DE) She was fond of the Finance Act and for one, one could almost understand, wonderful financial law course. There was also one at the moment. residing in Viborg, which was very fond of the Finance Act, namely Said Abdullahi. He is Somali and has been driving a bus in Viborg, and he was really happy because the financial agreement now means that where he was going back to his country, he now gets the opportunity to stay in Denmark. This is one of the results that has been achieved in the Finance Act as a result of the negotiations with, among other things: The Radical Left, that the law on foreigners has been relaxed here or what? Because last week I had the pleasure of having a debate with the Socialist Financial Rapporteur in the debate, and I think that both the chairman and I were somewhat stunned by the Socialist Financial Rapporteur. He was asked: when you change the conditions of refugees, is it not foreign policy? Because he didn't think that aliens had been made here. And then the Socialist financial rapporteur said: no, it is business policy, it is not foreign policy. So what I really would like to get the chairman of the Social Democratic Party and, of course, the Prime Minister to acknowledge is that the Finance Act here relaxes the policy of foreigners; that some of the people who, under the so-called repatriation policy, which was made with the last Finance Act and which the Social Democratic Party voted for, should be sent back to their country of origin on that account, now with the new rules, have the opportunity to stay in Denmark and that it is a relaxation of the policy of aliens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210134318	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210134320	But it is not true that some people are just allowed to stay. What we are saying is that we insist that refugees who no longer have a protection requirement in Denmark should go home if conditions allow. But if you have been in employment for some years in Denmark and are still in employment, you can stay as long as you are in employment. So it is not the case that if you are on public services and your residence as a refugee disappears, then you can stay in Denmark. If you are at work and there is an employer who wants you to remain in work or if there is an employer who, in something similar to this job or something that is for a higher salary, says that he wants to hire him, then you can stay here as an outside worker. That's what we've done. It reminds me of some rules that were in Denmark until a very short time ago, which were not used by many, and which I really think are okay. And just as important as I think it is that you go back to your country as a refugee, when you no longer need to be here, and I would like to hold on to that just as importantly, of course, it is also to say that it is actually okay that a man who is in work, earns himself and pays his taxes, can stay in Denmark as long as he is in work.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210134434	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210134436	Yes, the latter will probably be the case when you have been here for so many years, that you can search for other accommodations and stay here. However, what I really want to stick to with the Prime Minister is that in the return policy we made with last year's Finance Act and which the Social Democrats endorsed, the maximum focus is placed on ensuring that refugees and family members of refugees' temporary residence permits are included or refused to be extended in all cases where it is legally feasible. In other words, in any case, we must ensure that these people who have been here and received help for a temporary period have to go home when the opportunity is there. You should work for that to the maximum. What is then stated in the text of the agreement in the Finance Act is that the parties to the agreement agree to introduce a new labour market association scheme for foreigners, including refugees, family members and accompanying families of workers who have been withdrawn or refused to extend their original residence basis but who have been in employment in Denmark for at least two years. Can the Prime Minister not confirm that this is a relaxation of foreign policy? The rules we made, which the Social Democratic Party voted for, ensured that people with a foreign background who were here would return to their homeland as soon as the opportunity was there. They are now allowed to stay. It is called a labour market association scheme, but it is a relaxation of foreign policy because foreigners are now allowed to stay. With the old rules, they should have actually gone home.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210134554	Thank you. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210134556	But that's because it's about labour relations. It is not, of course, about us having a wish that people who do not have a need for protection should just be able to stay in Denmark. What we are saying with this change is that one can continue to work here if one has come here as a refugee and is no longer entitled to our protection because one no longer has a need for protection, but has been in employment in general pay and working conditions for a number of years and has an employer who says: this one or her here I would like to keep; that is a good workforce; he meets the requirements we have as a company. I think that is perhaps most of all a bit of common sense, because it is a basic good idea that refugees who do not have refugee status no longer remain in Denmark. But it is also good that a person can stay in Denmark as long as the person is in employment • not forever • if an employer somewhere in North Jutland says: Here we have a person that we are happy about; we can continue to pay the person; there is work.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210134703	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, final question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210134705	But what is my business is not really to find out whether the Prime Minister thinks it sensible to change these rules together with the Radical Left, because that is what the Prime Minister has decided; that is why the Social Democratic Party has concluded this Financial Law Agreement. It is in order to make the Social Democratic Party recognise that when you do so, you relax foreign policy. It is quite fantastic to hear both in the debate on Tuesday, which I saw with the Socialist Financial Rapporteur, and now here today that the conditions are being relaxed, so that refugees who should have actually been sent home can now stay in Denmark, but that they will not admit to the Danish people that they are relaxing their immigration policy because they maintain that it is a labour market regime so that the foreigners who should otherwise have been sent home with the repatriation policy that we made with the Finance Act are now allowed to stay and that it is not a relaxation of the immigration policy. That is what I think the Prime Minister will have to tell the Danish people: yes, here social democracy relaxes immigration policy. You relax the rules for foreigners who are in Denmark and who should have been sent home according to the old rules, and they are now allowed to stay. It's... it's...
ParlaMint-DK_20191210134808	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210134810	I am entirely in favour of the change we are making here, and we said in the early summer when we formed the government that we wanted to ensure this opportunity. But could we not also, with all due respect, discuss the content of this proposal? Because if we, the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party, agree that it is a very good idea for refugees who no longer have a need for protection to go home, but at the same time can see a few examples • I do not think this is so many, but can we return to this at employers in Denmark who have hired a person and are happy that that person is employed there, and moreover tell us that you continue to have the employee in question, can we not agree that that person can stay here as long as he is in work? There is no question of the person being unemployed in four months' time, so just stay in Denmark. Then the person does not have a residence in Denmark unless a lot of other things change. So it is a question of a person who is in work, who pays taxes and who supports himself, being given the opportunity to stay. I don't think that's such a crazy idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210134914	The question is over. Thank you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210134919	Following on from that debate with Mr. I would like to say that Kristian Thulesen Dahl is probably a very predictable reaction, which I do not really think should keep anyone sleepless at night. For what I can at least say from the real world is that there are many companies I have visited a few of them in the last week who are happy that these rules mean that they can keep the skilled staff they have been given, who have come here with refugee background and who have done exactly what we have asked them to do, namely integrate and support themselves; they are very happy about that. And they really just think, just as the Prime Minister said, that this is a good step towards more common sense. So praise for that, too. In a financial law agreement which, in addition to the type of common sense, also included that it became a finance law in the children's sign, with strong investment in our day institutions, and where training savings were shelved and investment was made in both primary and other types of education. And cultural savings were put away, and if small investments were made, however, in the right direction for cultural life in Denmark. I would also like to thank you for your good cooperation on this. Then there is what the Prime Minister mentioned in the introduction, namely the greenest Finance Act in man's memory followed by a broad Climate Law Agreement which raises awareness all over the world, and I am very pleased with the combination of these two things. I think that with the Finance Act we are taking some steps towards opening up the green transition. Such a little depending on how you expect the measures to come through, with what we have agreed for the Finance Act, we can get up near reducing Denmark's CO2 and if some of the money can stretch as far as other observers say, we can actually go further than that. However, my question concerns the fact that I had such an impression along the way that the government was also afraid that the green transition could go too fast, at least if you look at it in relation to the starting point, which was the government's financial bill, where there were not really any steps towards a CO2 which is why my question prior to the spring action plan on climate change is: are the Socialists and the government concerned that the green transition could go too fast? Because I guess I'm more worried that it's going too slow.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210135140	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210135143	I am not generally a very concerned person, I would say, and it is very good not to be in the job I am doing. The only thing that can worry me when we talk about climate is that we do not have the decisions that are necessary at national, European and global level and not that it can go too fast. But, of course, we have to do it the right way. We need to think. Now that we've got this very, very nice climate law in place I very much agree with the characteristics, and you can as a Dane rejoice that the rest of the world is looking towards this small country and now can see an inspiration as to how to approach the work; it's well done by the Danish Parliament here and the parties behind it, then the next big step is the climate action plan. And there we come into a room where we have to think very carefully and hopefully not be so concerned about something that can symbolically have a great effect, but come down there where we can create the structural changes: radicals' idea of an energy island where we are really creating renewable energy; the removal of agricultural land; the whole change of the transport sector; to make sure that CO2 is linked. These are huge things that lie ahead of us, and there I think the Climate Act actually defines the right framework. We must do this in a way that takes account of Danish competitiveness and Danish business and thus employment. And, of course, as a Social Democrat, I am also very concerned that inequality is not allowed to increase, that is, that we do not create a new problem when we solve another one. So I am not at all worried that it will go too fast, on the contrary. And I welcome the Climate Act and welcome the Finance Act in relation to the Greens and look forward with great anticipation to the forthcoming negotiations, because we must now start to bring some results together in earnest.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210135337	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210135340	When I ask the question, it is, of course, because I think that the financial law that we landed, which was probably the greenest in man's memory, was, after all, different from the starting point of the negotiations by taking some real decisions on both the set-aside of agricultural land, afforestation and transport. The decisions we made were about granting some money... it does finance laws often... but I also experienced that there was a reluctance to dare to make some of those big decisions. In other words, we did not get the air tax introduced, and it was perhaps because there was a hesitation over what it means in relation to the inequality... it was at least part of the discussion... even though an air tax, as the Climate Council has told us, almost contributes to equality in itself, because people who have a lot of money fly more than people who have less money. Nor did we really take steps to ban the use of buses that pollute, but we dropped some money off. What worries me is that if you constantly put up obstacles to take the right decisions and say that climate policy itself must both solve our climate change problems, with inequality and with city and country, then you risk putting up obstacles that will mean that we will not solve the climate problems at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210135455	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210135457	However, the result is convincing and speaks for itself, and I think there is really only reason to rejoice that a result of the negotiations can also end in a better place than what has been played out, and that is probably not the last time you will see it. I think there is reason to welcome this and I would like to say: think about what we have achieved in six months on welfare, on the green and on a number of other issues. Almost all the time I have been involved in politics, the welfare discussion in Denmark has been about how to navigate with savings in public schools, the day institutions and the elderly, but now I meet mayors who say I don't know if they say it to quote "cross party color," that it's nice with a municipal agreement where you don't just have to start the year by cutting back on what you really love. It is amazing that the rest of the world is celebrating Denmark for our climate legislation and, incidentally, for some of the initiatives that have been taken in the Finance Act. So I have no problem at all with saying today that the result of the financial law negotiations is better than what we started out with, and that is why it is only to sign off on good partners.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210135609	Last question. Sir. Morten Østergaard, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210135611	Yes, and I am glad of that, because I think that means that we can say with pride that it was the greenest budget law in the memory of a man, and nothing should be deducted from that. But we have to add to this in the spring, and that is where I think we will find the will also to dare to make decisions and to be careful not to put up those obstacles or to create false contradictions, such as the one we are discussing today. That the green transition may be the occasion for the big cities to wipe off the bill for those living in the countryside or that it will be the occasion for the rich to wipe off the bill for the poor. After all, we are pursuing an overall policy in this country, and we must also discuss the results achieved by the Service Commission. The Service Commission looks at some of those who have the least in Denmark, and if you want to do something about the inequality, it is a good idea to start by addressing those who have the least. What is going to be a problem is if the tools that work in the green transition are put aside, because they are said to have an effect that we do not like, for example, when we see them separately. lets children grow up in poverty because you don't want to touch it there with benefits. And that is where I just appeal to us to use climate policy to combat climate change and social policy to create equal opportunities, more equality in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210135721	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210135723	Ahr, there I am not quite sure I agree, because I believe that our objective must also be to pursue a climate policy that does not create other problems, so that we do not solve the climate crisis and then increase or make the difference between the country and the city grow or make life difficult for some groups, for example. the single mother, who may not be able to navigate easily what food is available, where she lives, because there may be only one grocery store, and there are prices now as they are. So I feel that when we discuss climate policy, hopefully we do so on the basis that we want Denmark to be strengthened after this, that employment must remain high, that competitiveness must be intact and, perhaps, that it should be improved, and that it does not hit socially wrong. It is not an easy task and nobody has done it before us, but if there is a country that can do it, I believe that it is Denmark that has all the prerequisites. Then I myself feel that, of course, there are a number of initiatives we can take in the area of climate change, and we will, but what really matters is research. We need to find the technology that can solve the climate crisis for us, and that is why one of the best things about this financial law is that we have jointly doubled what we are spending on green research, and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210135839	The question is closed. Thank you, sir. Morten Østergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210135849	Thank you. I would like to start by signing off for good cooperation, both in relation to the Finance Act, but also in relation to the Climate Act. In fact, I think we are moving on to some very large and fundamental elements that lie in the understanding paper we made this summer, and that is so positive. Well, we have in fact set a new direction for Denmark, and I think we can all enjoy that. So to something quite different: yesterday there was, in my opinion, a very positive and offensive message from Danish Industry. They are calling for a plan for the equal distribution of maternity leave between mother and father. Unfortunately, this is one of the areas in which Denmark lags far behind equality. In Denmark, Dad takes approx. 10% of the barslen, in Norway the father takes 21 per cent. of the barslen, in Sweden 27 per cent. and in Iceland 30%. So we can, in fact, shift to the other Nordic countries to become wiser. And I would really like to hear a little more about the government's plans for the earmarked maternity leave for fathers. Since the summer, there has been a slight change in reports from the Minister for Gender Equality and the government in relation to the new EU directive which obliges Denmark to get up and running in this area and to introduce a minimum of 2 months of earmarked maternity leave for men. Helle Thorning Schmidt was Denmark's first female prime minister, but she put away virtually all the proposals in the field of equality. I would therefore like to ask what the current Prime Minister is doing about the female Prime Minister No. 2 will do and be remembered for in the field of equal opportunities.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210140031	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210140033	It was also a very big question which I am not sure I can give a full answer in two minutes either. However, in relation to the reports from the Danish Industry, I would like to say that I think it is a good thing that we are going into this discussion. We have three years to implement the new directive in this area, and we are, of course, embarking on that work. It's also nice, I think, to experience the Danish business community accept the Climate Act so well and say to us in here: Yes, we are now undertaking this task together. If I am going to try to look into what I think are some of the biggest gender challenges in our society, then there are probably two groups that mean a lot to me. One is the group of unskilled women on the Danish labour market, who often find themselves run down by going to work and who, for some, do not always get saved up for their pensions and, moreover, often have a hard working life. So that group of women is of great concern to me, and of course it also has to do with dignified withdrawal, which we will be discussing next year. The second group that concerns me very much is all those girls and women with immigrant backgrounds who are not allowed to live the life they should be allowed to live in this country and who are kept down by some old cultural patterns and who do not have the same freedoms that are being watched, who are not allowed to choose boyfriend, later spouse, and who are subject to social control because of religion, tradition and culture. It simply does not belong in Denmark that fathers, uncles, older brothers will be in charge of girls and women. It's up to them to decide for themselves. So if I am going to point out two things for which I would like to be known, it is a proper withdrawal to worn-out women who have had a really hard working life, and then it is that all girls, regardless of their ethnic origin, are allowed to live exactly the life and get exactly the freedom that every person deserves in our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210140233	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210140234	Both equality cases are cases that the SF would certainly like to fight with the government to ensure. For there is no doubt that unskilled women have some other options in life than for example. well-educated women, as well as women of other ethnic origin who are not allowed to decide their own lives, starting right down to childhood, where we must draw attention to and fight for their rights, but actually use different financial incentives, among other things. to make sure it happens. I agree with these two points. So I am curious about what the Prime Minister will say in relation to earmarked maternity leave. For the reports that have come from the Minister for Gender Equality and the government have been somewhat contradictory, and it would be nice if the Prime Minister could once and for all establish what one thinks should be the Danish implementation of it, or at least which model one is going towards. SF suggests that you should have 3 months' maternity leave for your mother and 3 months' maternity leave for your father, otherwise you should have an equal distribution of the bar, so that you have both equal rights in relation to the child, but that in reality the child also has equal rights for your parents.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210140341	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210140342	Firstly, I would like to say that I think it is really positive when both mother and father take maternity leave, and I have no doubt that it is really beneficial for both mother and father, but also for the small one to be on maternity leave both with one and with the other. In relation to how exactly we intend to implement the directive, I am answerable because that work has not yet been completed. We also have three years to do that, so I will come back to that question. I just noticed with financial incentives when we talk about social control. One of the best things we could do was to ensure that their mothers entered the labour market. For one of the mechanisms of repression in this country is that there are women who cannot get a job because their husband at home thinks she should be in the apartment instead of being part of the Danish labour market, and I hope that is something that comes in when, after the benefit commission, we also discuss benefits. Because if you just set up all the benefits in this country, we will not get more immigrant women on the labour market. I therefore hope that we will find a way here, so that we will of course look after the children, but that we will also be very insistent about the fact that women and men in Denmark must be part of the Danish labour market, and the fact that a woman is kept at home because she is a woman is not what I want.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210140457	Pia Olsen Dyhr for the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210140459	Yes, there are a number of incentives that you can use. It is both that, and it is also to say that it must be possible to learn the Danish language as a woman. There are women who are not given the opportunity to receive the 8th and 9th classes, and in reality they cannot be drawn into cash benefits because they cannot enter the labour market. In any case, however, a training order could be discussed. So there's a lot of things you can do. One of the things I think is most grotesque is when women do not have their own bank account, but that their benefit goes into the man's account, and that is one of the means that has been for Danish women to break out of this addiction that you have of your husband. So I really think you should look through the whole catalogue to make sure these women are strengthened. I now allow myself to return to the earmarked maternity leave, because there are three years to implement it, but it might well be that the Prime Minister had such an idea of which way to go. For some of what we have heard from the Minister for Gender Equality has in fact meant that even more of the barsel ends up being earmarked for the woman and very little for the man. Therefore, it could be nice to say that okay, it is still completely in play, we are happy to discuss different models, we are happy to listen to KVINFO, the Women's Council and the Danish Industry, who are very concerned that it should be equally distributed and that you do not end up giving the mother a special strength in relation to the danger.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210140611	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210140613	There is a really exciting discussion on how to implement this EU directive. I do not want to hide the fact that the Social Democratic Party recommended that Denmark vote against the directive. Because although I basically agree with the importance of both men and women taking maternity leave, I have always thought so, I also have a basic confidence that you can organise it in the families to suit the family that has once become a family. That is why we did not recommend a 'yes' to that directive, which is why we can say 'yes' because it has now been adopted and Denmark must implement it. But if I understand that correctly, the SF wants some kind of overimplementation of the directive, and that is not what the government is going to recommend. But we have not settled on the concrete model and, of course, listen to all good ideas, now also from Danish Industry, in the field of maternity.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210140714	The question is over. Thank you to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210140721	Thank you. I would also like to start by thanking you for what I think you might call a wild week in Danish politics last week. At least I think we got something out of hand and on the good, most of it at least, i.e. psychiatry, women's crisis centres and a climate law. Because when we went into the election campaign, it was the Enhedslisten and the Alternative who talked about 70% CO2 so thank you for that. We're not done. One of the things I could have missed in our Finance Act is the efforts of the people affected by disease in our country. I regard it as a fundamental part of our welfare society and perhaps one of the greatest geniuses that the generations before us came up with, that is, the fact that it was perhaps smarter, that we all pooled a little more tax dollars and secured a social safety net for all of us, so that we should not constantly cross our fingers so that it is the colleague who goes down before you and that you are so lucky that you reach old age without getting sick. That guarantee I think there are a lot of people who are sick today who are not experiencing there anymore. It is a principle that has been watered down after many years of reforms, and that is why we are now talking about a large group of people in our country who have actually been affected by reforms, and that is because they have become ill, among other things. because we have a duration limitation. This means that after 52 weeks you can no longer be ill. Then you're either just healthy or on cash benefits. Then you'll end up on cash benefits and be sent around. No, first you have to sell your car and your house and spend your pension savings, and then you can get cash benefits. Then you will be sent around on the work test after work test to see if they can squeeze 2 hours out of you and don't care if you get sicker along the way. I think there are a lot of people out there who would like to hear the state-minster answer the simple question: are sick people supposed to be on cash aid, or are we supposed to set it up in another way?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210140942	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210140945	That is also a big question. Those are difficult questions that are being asked today, because in principle, no, cash benefits are a temporary benefit. It is not intended to be on cash benefits for many years, and the level of cash benefits also reflects that it is originally intended as a temporary benefit, and if therefore you need a permanent transfer income, for example because of disability or illness, then we have other benefits that are originally intended for it. That is the principle. Then it meets the real world, and then it's not that simple. A lot of immigrant backgrounds have been on cash assistance for decades. That wasn't supposed to happen either. So there are some flaws in our cash assistance system, and there are also some serious consequences of it. One is that there are some sick people who get stuck. I know that, we know that, for example. in the field of cash benefits. There is no longer any limitation of the duration of sickness benefit. We had it removed under the previous government, and that was very good, because there we could then stand completely without a subsidy. Instead, we are now moving to a process of resource development. The challenges there are that you can be there for a very long time. This may be good for some, but certainly not for all, and therefore there is also a commitment on the part of the government to look into some of the reforms that have been implemented so that we can see if we can find a better balance. Then I heard, I think, a little criticism of flex jobs in a few hours, and I just want to say that my experience is different. When we did the flex job reform, it got the consequence that today there are more in flex jobs than there were in the past, and I think that for a great many of them this has led to an increase in the quality of life compared to what was their life situation before that. So it's nuanced and complicated, but it doesn't change if the question is whether someone has got caught up in cash benefits and is so sick that they can't work that the answer is yes. And, of course, we have to look into that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210141144	Pernille Skipper, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210141146	I agree that it is good that we have agreed that we should try to do something about it, but there is also quite a lot we can do about the conciliation that otherwise covers a large part of this area. In other words, you could ensure that people who were on cash benefits were entitled to clarification within just two years, so that you are either searched on or healthy or something so that something happens. One can abolish the mutual dependent, one can say that the job centres must not reject a medical certificate and must not send in a work test contrary to the recommendations of a medical certificate. I mean, these things would make sure these grotesque stories that we've all heard about would get smaller. The latest figure I have seen, which is quite remarkable to me, is that 1,950 people have died within six months of their early retirement, since the last reform. This means that people just with their nails have fought through the system and that, when they are holding the early retirement in their hands, they are in fact also standing with one foot in the grave. It's not supposed to be that hard, is it?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210141256	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210141258	Firstly, I forgot to thank you for the good cooperation on both Finance and Climate Law, and I would like to do so. Then I would say that there are unfortunate examples. There are also examples that I do not think we can ignore, and that is why we are also working on looking through some of these reforms. Can I not say, in relation to some of the specific proposals, that I have also seen medical declarations that have been wrong. I have also seen medical statements where doctors claim that people are sick and cannot do anything without it being right. So I dare not just base an employment system and a benefit system on a medical certificate. I just don't dare. I would also be worried about doing an automatism on when to be done, at least if that means that you automatically come on an early retirement pension. Because I do not think that early retirement is necessarily the answer. It is for some people who are so ill or who have so much disability that there are no other answers. But I am also from a time and have grown up in a place where early retirement pensions, called invalidity pensions at that time, were resolved and have seen some unfortunate fates, because a society just gave up people at a very, very early stage. So the pendulum can't swing back. We need to find another balance point.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210141414	Then it is Mrs Pernille Skipper for the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210141417	I agree with that. It is not a question of everyone being on early retirement. I do not think any of the many people who are trying to shout about what it's like to be sick today mean either. But what is beginning to happen is that confidence in our system is beginning to crumble, that is, confidence in one's ability to tolerate and one can stand to be sick and that one is then helped. I'm sure the Prime Minister has read that article about Brian Larsen, because that's what the Prime Minister is reading. Brian Larsen is in resource sequences after a blood clot, surgery in the hands and accidents at work. Then he is put to put stickers on boxes and gets hurt in his hands, and then he has to answer to the job center for how it can be that he can wipe himself in the back when he cannot put labels on boxes. When you read such a story, you think that the people who are employed there, the system we have built up, have basically misunderstood what the system should be. Then the Prime Minister could not just say to him and to all the others who are in trouble in the system that it is true that the system is not designed to control citizens, but that the system is designed to help citizens? Because I think there are many who have been questioned about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210141522	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210141523	Well, that particular case seems wrong. I get sad when I read it and will not stand up to defend that you are asked to explain how you go to the bathroom in Denmark because you need help. So you will not get my support for this, and that is why I really want to stress that I have no doubt that there are people who have been caught up in some of the reforms, and I am behind some of the reforms myself, which is why I have a particular responsibility. But I also have to say that the system, the job centres, the social workers are also experiencing the opposite, i.e. that people who are not sick are claiming that they are ill, that people who can work are claiming that they cannot work. Otherwise, there would not be women with an immigrant background, for example, who have been on cash benefits for 20-25 years in this country. So there is another truth, and that is the challenge of making legislation, namely how we help the right people and, at the same time, insist that everyone contribute in this society. I do not want to say that we have found the right balance point with examples such as that with Brian, and therefore, most importantly of all, a commitment that we go down and look at some of these reforms again.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210141640	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Skipper. The question is closed. Then it's mr. Søren Pape Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210141646	Thank you. I have heard the Prime Minister say a few times here today that some difficult questions have come from the two previous authors. Now I want to ask you a few easy questions, to which the Prime Minister can just say: Super good idea, Søren Pape Poulsen. It is the case that we have something absolutely fantastic in Denmark, something very special. This is what we call the Danish model, where the social partners themselves find out where politicians should not interfere unless it becomes extremely necessary. That is something we must be careful of. I guess we all want to live in a society where there are fixed working conditions for everyone. Of course, when we see examples that there are not, we also have things to do. But sometimes things get out of hand and are used to do something wrong. I do not want to ask the Prime Minister whether she rejects the methods used by the 3F members, the scaffolding workers, when they destroyed cars, knocked over scaffolding and threw things, on the pretext that they were part of a professional conflict. But I see many examples, and people and employers turn to me. They don't go out in public with it, because they don't dare, because they don't want the trade union movement on their backs. So my first question is this: we have now seen 3F's luggage workers in Kastrup illegally shut down the work and demand a colleague fired because he was a member of another union, and we have now seen 3F's scaffolding workers smash cars and overthrow a scaffolding, throwing gunmen flying through the air, under the pretext of a professional conflict and now seeing all that, will the government map out the extent of illegal pressure that parts of the trade union movement are putting on employers?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210141843	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210141847	I am really sorry that I am not being asked whether I am opposed to violence and illegal practices. But now I'm gonna sneak up and say I am. Of course, that's what's important in this context. In fact, I can say a long way along the way: that is very good, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen. For the Danish labour market model, the best labour market model is available. It is very much the labour market model, including our collective agreements and the high degree of organisation that has made Denmark as strong and rich a society as we are today. Part of the labour market model is that you have to comply with the rules of the game. And that is what I want to say as clearly as I can at all, whether it is the scaffolding workers or, for that matter, those who hire; were the Chinese chefs lying on the floor or on European pallets sleeping? Both are a breach of legislation and this is a breach of our labour market model. So from here a very, very clear call for everyone to comply with the rules of the game and the legislation there is. I'll never defend the opposite. I do not think that we need this survey, because I have very, very much confidence that the social partners will ensure that the rules that exist are enforced through, for example, labour law when it comes to the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210142011	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210142012	That's too bad. But now that we see these crazy scenes with scaffolding workers and at the same time we agree that we must preserve the Danish model, because I hear that we are, I want to know whether the Prime Minister will help protect the social partners by tightening up the penalties for violence, threats and vandalism and violation of the ban on masking when this happens as part of a conflict in the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210142037	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210142038	After all, we are constantly tightening up legislation in the field of labour market law when it comes to illegal matters. We have just done this with the Finance Act in relation to social dumping and with increased efforts in relation to illegal labour. Whether or not the other is something we should also look at. I do not wish to deny that at present, but I do, of course, need to be able to assess that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210142101	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen, final question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210142102	I would like to say that I certainly believe that there is a need for a survey of these conditions in the labour market, and I should also like to give the Prime Minister examples of what some employers are going to do in this country. That's one. The second is about the last answer, where it is said that you want to look at it. I hope so, because the Prime Minister will have to, because we are going to make a proposal in the Folketing on this. We will come up with a proposal that, of course, we should be punished and that we should be severely punished. We also see this in other areas of the criminal code if you commit an offence and make it organized together, then it can have a particularly aggravating effect. I am deeply concerned about the collective bargaining that is about to start now and what it will end up with in the spring if we do not send out a clear signal that when we start using the methods we saw scaffolding workers use, it has consequences. I have asked the Minister for Justice how many arrests have been made in this regard, and I will be deeply shocked if this does not have any consequences. But surely we must agree that threats, vandalism, violation of the ban on masking and violence must be severely punished and that we should not be able to force ourselves through anything in the labour market by using those methods.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210142216	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210142218	I fully agree that the law must be observed and, in my view, violence cannot be accepted or justified in any major cause. We must use democracy and the means of democracy, and we must believe in the power of argument and not what the hand or other things can give us. I fully agree with that. In fact, everyone in the labour market has an interest in the fact that stray vessels that do not comply with the rules of the game, regardless of whether they are on the one hand or on the other, are not allowed to fill our society. For the small company that complies with the rules is also undermined by the employer who does not, as is the case on the worker side. So I give my full support to the Danish model with everything that belongs to the Danish model, for example. to address the challenges and problems in the negotiating room, and not all possible elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210142307	Thank you, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen. The question is closed. Then it's mr. Uffe Elbæk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210142315	Thank you. I would also say, what a week we had last week. I fully agree with Mrs Pernille Skipper that it was a good political scoreboard that we had made there, and this applies both to the Finance Act, but not least also to the Climate Act, which set an inspiring new level of ambition for all of us. I'm really, really happy. One can always say: is there not one missing, and could it not be better? Of course, we must always bear that in mind, but I am genuinely, really happy. As the Prime Minister also said, it will be very exciting as to how we then put action behind all the good words about the success criteria that we have formulated together, and that is to say in relation to the climate action plan that we have to negotiate. But what the Prime Minister also said here during Question Time was that this requires ambitious action both at global, national and local level, and the issue that I am going to address is a local issue which I think actually presents many of the challenges we face. After all, we need to rethink solutions, we need to look at solutions with new eyes, including some of the decisions we have taken, which could perhaps be better done and perhaps also re-examined. I know that the Prime Minister comes from Aalborg, where I have also had my walk, and I am quite sure that the Prime Minister has also visited Egholm and knows that it is a pure natural gem with a completely unique floral life, bird life and wildlife, a Natura 2000 area. It has then been decided and it is not the Prime Minister's responsibility; it is an infrastructure plan that the Prime Minister has taken over from the previous government to drive a motorway across this very, very beautiful and very precious area. So my first question is: what does the Prime Minister think about that decision, and what does it need to do to reverse it?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210142522	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210142524	First of all, I would like to say that I know Egholm very well, I was there last year for my father's 70th birthday, and it is quite true that it is a nice excursion place when you are aalborgen. By the way, it's been my whole life. When it comes to the third Limfjord connection, there are a few things that are important to dwell on. One thing is that North Jutland needs a third Limfjord connection, because the traffic sands to, whether it is the tunnel or it is the existing bridge. So that's what we need. And we stand by the agreement that goes back a few years and that has been made widely in the Folketing, in relation to the need for a third limb fjord connection. After all, no specific decision has been taken on the construction of the third Limfjord connection, and that is a decision that we have before us. After all, the previous government made an infrastructure agreement with a very, very slender majority. That majority lapsed after the elections, and that means that at some point we have to start discussing a proper infrastructure agreement here in the Folketing. During this parliamentary term, we will also be discussing the third Limfjord connection.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210142640	Uffe Elbæk, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210142641	It is quite true that everyone agrees that there should be a third connection in Aalborg, but there is a very good alternative to the Egholm project, namely that you get a third pipe to the Limfjord tunnel. It's cheaper, and I actually think it's something like 3 billion. kr. cheaper; it can take more trouble; it has much more popular support among the citizens of Aalborg, and there are more who will use it. So my question is: if you actually have an alternative that is much better, shouldn't we together have the sincere curiosity to find out if that decision cannot be rethought? And in order to do so, it requires that at least a new vvm study be carried out for Egholm, but not for the third track, i.e. the third tunnel. So my question to the Prime Minister is: will the Prime Minister help to consider whether it can be looked at with new eyes?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210142751	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210142753	I always think you should look at things with open eyes, but I don't want to land in, even though I've lived a lot of my life in Aalborg and was born and raised there, that I'm actually the one who's supposed to be drawing lines. I think that is actually very good for the rest of the country, if it is not the case with my hand or with other politicians. That is why I believe that what is crucial politically is to ensure that when we discuss infrastructure, there is funding to make the changes and extensions of our infrastructure that are needed, and to make it greener than what the previous government was able to do when it made an infrastructure agreement at that time. But I do not want to be the prime minister who has to sit and decide whether or not a line should go in one place or another. By the way, I just have a receipt for the fine words a week that went by. Imagine what can be accomplished in a week when there is political will! It was nice to see.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210142856	The last question from Mr. Uffe Elbæk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210142857	I agree with the latter, and I will also allow myself to edit it a little and call it some kind of positive listening if I hear the Prime Minister say that you may well be able to look at the traffic solution that is around Aalborg with new eyes. The last question is that of the members of the Alternative who are asking, and of course they have been really, really concerned about what is going on in the Defense right now with fraud and failure, and we have discussed it with regard to the way we spend public money. But one of the things that lies in this is that there are some people who have not fulfilled their role responsibly, they have made some wrong priorities and have actually done something that is quite wrong. But what is also apparent in this case, and that is what Members are concerned about, is that in companies around the world there are some employees who find out that something is wrong and then what is called whistleblower. They often experience that they are not listened to by the bosses who are above them. So what will the Prime Minister say to those people who actually see something that is wrong but who have a leadership that does not listen?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210143012	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210143013	First of all, I repeat that I will not go into any specific line-up discussions, either on a third limbo connection or on other matters, as Prime Minister. The last question here I can understand is being asked, and I actually agree very much. We should have a country where it is not necessary to have whistleblowers. We have always been high on the scale in terms of anti-corruption and anti-nepotism and transparency, but we have seen some examples of some more systemic errors and some specific errors that have not been properly dealt with, and that is why we need somebody shouting in arms. It can potentially be a great thing to do, and that is why we must make sure that there is actually being listened. That was not the case in the specific case. That is why I am pleased that today, in dealing with the specific situation, the Minister for Defence also said that we need to look in the Defence to see how we ensure that whistleblowers are actually heard and that what is being raised is responded to. So I very much agree with the basic consideration.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210143109	Thank you, sir. Uffe Elbæk. The question is closed. The next question is Mrs Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210143112	Thank you for the floor. These are new times in Danish politics and new times because I am going to take up the case that Mrs Pernille Skipper mentioned earlier. Today I have dedicated my questions to Brian Larsen from Hedensted, whom Mrs Pernille Skipper mentioned in her questions. In fact, I bring Brian Larsen up in the audience, and if I seem a little more nervous than I used to be, it's because this is a strong diet. Brian's 50 years old, he's in resource sequences because he has severe pain in his hands after a blood clot, an accident at work and an operation. In connection with the resource process, Brian's local job center has set him to put labels on cardboard boxes and pack things that Brian can't, because it intensifies Brian's pain. Brian was therefore in October at a meeting at the job center, where a case worker, a company consultant and a supervisor were ready to question him: How do you brush your teeth? How do you drink from a mug? How do you dry your butt? Those questions were asked Brian. Understandably, Brian was shocked and collapsed over the degrading and humiliating questions. Brian feels powerless to the system, which is why he's contacted me. I would like to put the following question to the Prime Minister on behalf of Brian: is it intended that a 50-year-old man should explain to the case workers at the job centres how he wipes his butt? Does the system really have to humiliate people like this?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210143326	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210143330	The short answer is no. I do not understand why those questions are being asked to Brian, I do not think they should be asked, and I do not think that is right. It reveals, as Mrs Pernille Skipper and I have already said, that there are some problems. We cannot ignore that and we must not ignore it. We cannot ignore it, and we should not ignore it. There are problems in this area. I understand that the situation is being affected, and I think it is a good thing that we are getting it into the Parliamentary Assembly on two occasions today, and it can hopefully have a common commitment to grow. So, on the basis of that and the question that was raised earlier, I would like to say again that there is perhaps something that is even very much in the reforms that have been carried out that are working, but there is also something that is not working. I remember that as Minister for Employment I was presented with an example of someone who had to receive electroshock to continue receiving sickness benefit, and there was the attitude so that I should go out and say I thought that was a good idea. Then I said that I will never say that, and I will never think that it is a good idea or that it is fair, and I will compare the two things.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210143442	Thank you. I am pleased that the Prime Minister recognises that there are parts of the reform that have been harmful, and I actually expected that too. So far, so good. As the Prime Minister knows, New Citizens want to close the job centres completely. I know that we will not be able to achieve that tomorrow, because unfortunately there is no support for this, but in recognition that we have such massive problems with sick and worn-out people being dragged and dragged around in the job centres, was it not a worthy start to say that the people, the Danes who are sick and worn-out, are pulling out of the employment system, out of the job centres and ensuring that it is only an independent medical assessment that needs to be carried out whether you should have a temporary early retirement pension or an early retirement pension?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210143535	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210143539	I never hope that I will ever stand out of this place and defend a system to defend the system, and I will not do that in this case either, which is why I am always open to discussing not only about but also how we can do things better, and that is also true in relation to the job centres. I am going to say the same thing here, and it has nothing whatsoever to do with Brian, who is here in the Chamber, I would like to emphasise, but I just have to say, although it is also a difficult discussion, that there are people who have cheated and that there are people who cheat and that there are people who make social fraud, there are people in Denmark who receive benefits wrongly, and there are people who claim they are sick even if they are not. It's a challenge. It is then faced with people who have worked many years, who have been worn out, who have been exposed to an accident at work and who are then through a multitude of work tests in a totally unreasonable way. In the Folketing we need to be aware that both exist and that both are part of our common reality, and how we handle both wisely and properly, I'm not sure anyone has the recipe. However, the specific case that has been raised today in the Parliamentary Chamber illustrates, in the same way as Mrs Pernille Skipper's question, that there are problems, and we must of course address that issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210143651	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210143653	I fully agree that we have a huge problem with people who cheat, cheat and deceive the system, and that is why we are saying: let it now be an independent medical assessment, that is, not people's own doctor, but an independent medical assessment that is the basis. After all, we must have so much confidence in medical practice that we can say that there are people who are so sick, so weak, so worn out that they can't do it anymore, and so it's not decent to drag them through this system, and then there are other people who are in a different situation. I'm just really asking for something here. Because I have said from the beginning that it is not just something that can wait 1 year or 2 years or 5 years, because it is fates that affect people every day. It is an acute and real problem. I fully understand that we are waiting for the negotiations currently under way to be concluded to say that it is Arne's turn, but could we not in the meantime start looking at whether there is anything we can do as quickly as possible, that is to say what the first step is, and the first step must be the weakest ones being pulled out of the system?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210143757	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210143759	I therefore agree that there is a need for us to respond, and that is part of our understanding paper, and we are willing to do so by the government. I have to stick a little bit to the question of medical certificates, because I have basic confidence in other people, and I have that for doctors too, and I also have basics for medical statements, but if I just have to bring one example into this discussion. At one point it emerged that there were a number of applicants for Danish citizenship who all had a medical certificate stating that the person had ptsd and therefore could not learn Danish and had to exempt the requirement for language in order to obtain Danish citizenship. It turned out to be a scam and a scam, and it was completely identical medical statements from the same doctor to citizens in widely different life situations, so there may also be problems with medical statements. I think that when you go back in history you have also seen doctors who have thought that there have been people who have not been able to work, even though they have been able to. It then faces some other examples of people who really cannot work and who are treated degradingly and in a non-proper way. I just have to insist that both realities should be brought to that table so that we find a solution that will take care of those we need to be careful of, but also insist that those who can actually do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210143912	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Vermund. Then we move on to the questions from the party leaders, and that is Mr. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210143927	I would like to start by congratulating the Prime Minister's first Finance Act, and I would really like to pay tribute to it, namely that many of the initiatives contained in the Finance Bill, including increasing public spending and raising taxes, are something that we are opposed to in the Liberal Alliance, because we think this is the wrong way for Denmark and that it is bad for the Danish economy, which is something that was promised in the election campaign. The government and its support parties actually live up to their electoral promises to some extent, and although I disagree with those electoral promises, it is good for democracy and I would actually like to give that praise. There is, however, one area in which I regret a little, or rather wonder, that one has not fulfilled one's election promise, and that is in relation to savings in consulting consumption. For when the Social Democratic Party went to the elections, it was established and had it as a central part of its economic plan that it could save 3 billion. kr. in consultants, and the 3 billion. kr. should instead go to core welfare. I don't think the 3 billion. kr. is caught out of thin air. It must be because some serious calculations have been made which show that we can save 3 billion. kr. Then you make the financial bill, and then we can see that we are saving a little over 800 million in the region over the next four years. kr. In other words, there is still an overpayment of consultants of over 2 billion. kr., which could have gone to better standards, for example, so that there was no struggle as to whether they were bogus ratings or whether they were real minimum ratings; the money could have been spent on that. That is why my question is quite simple: why does the government choose to overpay consultants with over 2 billion? kr. The coming years?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210144107	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210144109	I am incredibly pleased with this question, because I think it is extremely wise and proper for this government to insist on spending more taxpayers' money on core welfare rather than on consultancy tasks. I said that before the elections, as we said in the election campaign, and that is also the policy we are pursuing now. Have we ever said we'd do it in one fell swoop? No, but it has to be said that this proposal for a financial regulation provides for a transfer of funds from consultancy to core welfare, for example. elementary schools and day care institutions. Are we going to go further along that path? Yes, we do. Are we going to hit the 3 billion? kr., we said before the election? Yes, we do, and I hope, of course, that this was the first of several financial laws and the first of several major negotiations. When I am so pleased with the question, it is because I really like to discuss it here and, as the questioner knows, I am of the opinion that in recent years quite considerable resources have been transferred from what I believe to be the real core task of the welfare society, namely human relations, to paperwork and bureaucracy, yes, a form of diverification of the public sector. And that's the big ship, the supertanker we've started to change with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210144230	Yes, but you have also included these savings in the total of well over 800 million. kr. in the financial years up to 2023 and, if you know for sure, you knew before the elections that you could save 3 billion. kr., I find it hard to understand why you have not just written it into the estimates and already commit to finding the money, because until you do so, you choose to overpay the consultants with over 2 billion. kr. And that does not really answer the question of why, knowing that you can save 3 billion. kr., so not just have written it into the estimates years. What's holding the government back?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210144308	It's hard to say that something is holding this government back, because we're delivering exactly what we said, we're going to do in this area too. When we say that we believe 3 billion can be saved. kr. In the case of the use of consultancy funds, the whole public sector, i.e. both state, municipalities and regions. What we are now implementing with this year's financial bill is two things: it is partly our own change in the use of consultancy funds in the state, and partly the implementation of the agreement that has been made on senior pensions. So that is two things we are now setting in motion in terms of savings on the consultancy part. We have set in motion a work which may sound a little boring, but which I think is very important, and that is that some of the tasks on which ministries today buy solutions at external consultancy agencies, we would actually like to solve within the central administration. This is true, for example. Some of what is really expensive, namely the use of consultants when hiring new employees. So we are also making some changes in which we take, as it were, some tasks into the central administration, which currently lies with consultancy agencies. We must do this in a proper way, but the goal of moving 3 billion. kr. Every year from consultants to core welfare is firm, and as I said, we have got really, really well started with that task too.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210144421	Yeah, well, if it's 800 million. kr. per It will take more than ten years to achieve this objective. I have noticed that a working group will be set up in relation to municipalities and regions, and it is almost as if you have to hire consultants to find out where you can save on consultants, but in the economic agreement you made with the regions and municipalities, there was not as much as a penny spent on savings. So when we stand here with the temporary result that in the financial year's budget year, we look forward to four years and find that 800 million can be saved. kr., and it has not been chosen to increase it to the 3 billion. kr., but says it comes at some point, is the question: why in the meantime do you choose to overpay consultants with several billions when it could have gone to these minimum standards so that they were not just a hoax but were real minimum standards? I think there are many Danes who feel that the government owes an answer to that, because many Danes have voted for the Prime Minister's party in the belief that 3 billion could be saved. kr. In the case of consultants who could then go to real core welfare and so far it turns out that it is only 800 million. kr. In the meantime, why do they still have to be overpaid when the 3 billion? kr. Are you actually just lying there and ready to be picked up?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210144528	Somehow there is an interesting thread, both in Question Time and in the major debates here, namely a citizen's regret that the Socialist Government is not implementing its social democratic policy quickly enough. It is, in fact, a criticism that I welcome, and indeed an annoyance that I can share in my impatient moments, because I would also like to see all social democratic policies implemented at once. I would now like to ease the vexation by saying that there has been a government that is actually doing what the questioner also praised us for saying before the elections. I also agree with the basic analysis that no matter which government is in Denmark, it is actually important that one can govern and that one can live up to what one has promised people. Now we are in the process, and it has to be said that considerable sums are being saved on the use by the state of external consultants. This is a very good thing, and it is one of the reasons why we can do something with this financial law that the questioner's party has not been super concerned with: giving priority to the core welfare of Denmark with the recruitment of several nurses, strengthening the primary school, strengthening the psychiatry and the gradual introduction of minimum standards. That's actually very good.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210144644	Thank you, sir. Alex Vanopslagh and the Prime Minister. That brings us to the end of Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210145046	The sitting is resumed. Today there are the following reviews: Pernille Vermund (NB) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. (Parliament adopted the resolution) 56 to limit public benefits to foreigners). Marie Bjerre (V), Morten Messersschmidt (DF), Ida Auken (RV), Orla Østerby (KF) and Ole Birk Olesen (LA): Request no. F 26 (What will the government do to ensure a long-term strategy and action plan to ensure alternative fuels in the transport sector after 2020?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20191210145140	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? And it's given.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210145210	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 25 of Jeppe Bruus (S), Inger Løjberg (V), Pernille Bendixen (DF), Naser Khader (KF) and Pernille Vermund (NB), and voting is possible. I shall conclude the vote. In favour 71 (S, V, DF, KF and NB), against 33 (RV, SF, EL, ALT and LA), abstentions 0. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 25 adopted. I should also like to inform you that the motion for a resolution tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats No. V 24 by Sikandar Siddique (ALT), Kristian Hegaard (RV), Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt (SF), Rosa Lund (EL), Alex Vanopslagh (LA) and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG) have lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210145350	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There is a proposal. Motion for a resolution (Doc. V 26 by Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl (DF), Jens Joel (S), Christoffer Aagaard Melson (V), Marianne Jelved (RV), Astrid Carøe (SF), Jakob Silverhøj (EL), Mai Mercado (KF), Torsten Gejl (ALT), Mette Thiesen (NB) and Henrik Dahl (LA), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour 104 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT, NB and LA) voted against 0, abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 26 has been adopted unanimously. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210145514	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210145521	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 100 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT and LA), against 2 (NB), abstentions 0. The bill is hereby adopted and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210145611	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210145617	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. I shall conclude the vote. In favour 104 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT, NB and LA) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210145713	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210145719	If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 1, to be elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of EL)? As this is not the case, it has been adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210145802	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210145809	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? As this is not the case, it has been adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210145829	Amendments have been tabled. I shall first see if anyone wishes to speak. As that is not the case, that debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210145846	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (DF), joined by a minority (NB) and can be voted on. That concludes the vote. In favour 13 (DF and NB), against 90 (S, V, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has therefore been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (RV, SF, EL and ALT), joined by a minority (IA), and a vote can be taken. That concludes the vote. In favour of 30 (RV, SF, EL and ALT), against 74 (S, V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has therefore been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 3 of a minority (RV, SF, EL and ALT), joined by a minority (IA), and a vote can be taken. That concludes the vote. In favour of 30 (RV, SF, EL and ALT), against 73 (S, V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has therefore been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 4, joined by the Committee? That is not the case, so it has been adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. And if no one objects to this, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210150053	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case, so we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210150110	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (DF), joined by a minority (KF and NB) and can be voted on. That concludes the vote. In favour of 20 (DF, KF and NB), against 84 (S, V, RV, SF, EL, ALT and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has therefore been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 1 and 3, in the case of the same minorities, shall cease to exist. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. And if no one objects to this, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210150200	The debate is open, and I shall give the floor to Mr Seligman. Jeppe Bruus of Social Democracy. We wait just 30 seconds so that everyone who wants it can leave the Chamber and not least so that everyone can hear the rapporteur's speech. Then I think we can give the floor to the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210150354	That's great, thank you, President. The bill we are going to deal with here is about ensuring effective law enforcement, which is, of course, of crucial importance for Danish authorities and, above all, for the possibility of having people extradited to Denmark...
ParlaMint-DK_20191210150415	Excuse me, I would like to ask the Things and also the official work to show respect for the rapporteur who is speaking at the moment. If you want to converse, you can do it right outside the door. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210150427	As I said, it is of course important for Danish authorities to be able to ensure law enforcement and, above all, to have people handed over to Denmark from other countries for prosecution or execution. This is, of course, particularly true in relation to other EU countries. It has to be said that the Danish extradition rules must, of course, be in accordance with EU rules in this area. There, since May 2019, we have had a situation where the European Court of Justice has handed down judgments interpreting the EU framework decision on the European legal order so that the courts of certain Member States refuse to recognise European arrest warrants issued by the Public Prosecutor, as has been the case in Denmark. That is why the draft law calls for the forward-looking process to be such that only the courts can issue these European arrest warrants in any case. As part of this bill, we are also preparing for Denmark to accede to the United Nations Convention for the Protection of All Persons from Forced Disappearance. The extradition law, which we are discussing here, is completely rewritten and the Danish system of extradition of of offenders is amended so that it will be in the future that in all cases the courts will have to take such a decision. The Social Democratic Party naturally supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210150554	We thank the rapporteur. No one has asked for the floor, so we go further in the rapporteur's line, and the next is Mrs Inger Løjberg from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210150605	Now the Socialist rapporteur has already said something about the bill here, and it is precisely as has already been said that it is a question of bringing Danish extradition rules into line with the EU framework decision, so the rules are in line with the latest interpretation of the framework decision by the European Court of Justice in the judgment of 27 May this year. This new interpretation means, just as it has just been touched upon, that we in Denmark must amend our legislation so that in future we will have a court over when a European arrest warrant is to be issued. In concrete terms, this means that a prosecutor now has to go to court to have a European arrest warrant issued, where it can be done at the desk, if you will say so. Today it is the Attorney General who decides whether to issue such an arrest warrant, and in fact we in the Left think it is working quite well. We believe that the Attorney General is a competent authority which acts completely independently of changing ministers and which, through the principle of objectivity, ensures the necessary legal certainty. We have every confidence that extradition can easily be decided in this way. That is why I must also say that the part of the legislative proposal which concerns the future of the courts in relation to an arrest warrant has not grown in our seas either, but we naturally have respect for the fact that the European Union is asking us in this way to change our rules, because we believe, as has been said so often, that it is important for Denmark to form part of international cooperation in the fight against crime, and the European arrest warrant is therefore an important tool for the police to combat cross-border crime and also terrorism. Against this background, I have to say that we support the draft law, and we do so, of course, with all the elements that lie in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210150826	We thank Mrs Inger Løjberg and go further in the rapporteur's line. This is Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210150838	Thank you. Now the first two rapporteurs have explained what the draft law is about, so I shall not tire things out with another statement. One can always get a little bit worried when it comes to a convention, but there are also conventions that are good and we think that this is one of them. We think that it must be high on everyone's agenda that we do what we can not only to pursue, but also to hold people accountable for the criminal acts they commit. However, we have a concern about the hearing answer from the Danish Association of Judges, which does not agree with the Ministry of Justice that the costs must be borne within the existing framework of the courts. They are affected by a budget that is reduced by 1.2 per cent annually, and we are now imposing an additional cost on them, at the same time as this is intended to cost approx. 2 million kr. So we will probably pursue that concern in the further work of the committee on at least a few questions as to what the consequences of this might be. There is certainly a commentary on the consultation report, but we would like to ask our own questions. Having said that, however, I assume that we will probably end up supporting the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210151000	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Bendixen. And then we welcome Mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210151020	Thank you. The draft law here stems from the fact that in Denmark it is the Attorney General who issues and executes European arrest warrants, just as the Attorney General decides on extradition outside the Nordic countries as well as the EU. It is inappropriate because the Minister for Justice has powers over the Attorney General and the Executive should not have such competence, regardless of whether the Minister actually exercises it in practice. The draft law is therefore necessary for Denmark to comply with the Council of the European Union Framework Decision 2002/584/JHA of 13 June 2002 on the European arrest warrant and on the surrender procedures between Member States. As has been mentioned, a few EU decisions were issued this summer on interpretations of this Framework Decision, which then imitates this legislation and amendment of the law. The proposal also aims to allow Denmark to accede to the United Nations Convention for the Protection of All Persons from Forced Disappearance. And it is no surprise that the Radical Left welcomes the rapprochement of international conventions. Furthermore, the main changes brought about by the draft law are that decisions on the issue of European arrest warrants are taken by the courts rather than administrative decisions. One might hope that such an approach, which moves something from an administrative authority to the courts, would also apply, for example, to the withdrawal of dual citizenship, but that is another matter. Another change is that decisions on extraditions from Denmark abroad should in all cases be taken by the courts. Then there are a number of problems in the consultation answers from, among others. some of the parties to the hearing on the right to a public defender. And what has been crucial to the Radical Left in this regard is that there is still the possibility of appointing a defender if the person is wanted to be extradited to prosecution in Denmark, or if the police investigate whether the conditions for extradition have been met. It is therefore only in relation to whether the person is wanted to be extradited for execution in Denmark that this is not the case with the appointment of a defender. So, overall, the draft law is positive for legal certainty, and the Radical Left therefore welcomes it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210151325	No questions or answers have been asked to the rapporteur, so thank you, Mr President. Kristian Hegaard. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210151352	I shall refrain from going into what the bill is about................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Then I should like to pay tribute to the fact that the proposal provides for legal certainty, because in future it will be the courts that will have to decide whether extradition can take place in cases relating to the European arrest warrant, and not, as is happening today, through an administrative authority. In fact, I also agree with the Legal Affairs Association, which has provided a hearing answer, that it would be very good if the same principle applied to the Nordic countries. We can therefore support the proposal, but I would also like to say here that I think we should listen to the concerns of the courts about their economy. There we are in line with the Danish People's Party, although it may well be that the 2 million. kr. In the case of additional costs incurred by the proposal, it is not a manor's house. After all, the Minister has proposed that they should be found within the framework of the courts, and we disagree with that because the courts are already very tense; they have an increasing pressure on the case and cuts make it difficult to find the money needed. I also think that they say very clearly that it will create problems for them and have consequences for the other proceedings. That is why our clear request is that the 2 million. kr., then saved in the current systems, should be transferred to the courts. Finally, I should also like to say that the proposal makes it possible to accede to the UN Convention on Forced Disappearances. I just had to look up what the foreign word covers, and it could be an arrest, detention, abduction or any other form of deprivation of liberty by a State actor or other person acting on behalf of that person but denying the detention or keeping the fate or whereabouts of the missing person secret and thus being placed outside the scope of legal protection. It sounds like something worse, and that is why we can of course also support the fact that we are getting started with that convention; for it is a violation of fundamental legal principles if such a thing happens. Finally, I should like to welcome the Enhedslisten and say that they also support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210151622	Then we thank the rapporteur for the SF. And then we jump on to the Conservative People's Party with Mr. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210151636	Thank you, President. Several rapporteurs have mentioned the details of the draft law. Most of it is a continuation of an existing extradition law. We Conservatives support the bill. I do, however, have a few clarification questions for the Minister of Justice. The first is: how will the Minister ensure that possible extradition does not conflict with Denmark's security policy interests, i.e. if a court decision would prove to be in conflict with Denmark's interests in this area? The second question: will the Minister consider how he can tighten the extradition law so that there is the right balance between freedom to judge and a guarantee that judgments do not conflict with Denmark's security policy interests? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210151730	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader. Then it is the Alternative's rapporteur, sir. Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210151737	Thank you for the floor, President. I'll do the supercard. The alternative supports the proposal and notes that Chapter 7 of the draft law contains a change of system so that in the future it will be the courts and not, as it is today, an administrative authority to decide whether to grant an extradition request, including a European arrest warrant. This amendment contributes to better legal certainty in this area, which is why the alternative supports the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210151813	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving on and the next one is Mrs Pernille Vermund from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210151823	Thank you for the floor. L 78, draft law on extradition of of offenders to and from Denmark, must be seen as an expression of a substantial simplification of the law, and it is pleasing, because laws must be as simple as possible. However, the proposal for the new extradition law continues the rules on the EU arrest order and, with the EU arrest order, the EU forces Denmark to extradite citizens for legal proceedings in foreign EU states for a number of acts, whether the act would constitute a crime under Danish law or whether the act is trivial. The EU arrest warrant has, for example: already led to demands for extradition for trifles such as possession of 0.45 g cannabis, theft of two car tires, drunk driving where the limit was not significantly exceeded, and finally my personal favorite: the theft of a pig. With the EU arrest order, Danish courts are not allowed to take into account the specific circumstances of an action covered. The EU dictates that Danish courts should hand over people, whether the action behind them could lead to a judgment or an acquittal in Denmark. Extradition, which the European Union so appropriately calls surrender, as if the European Union were one country, must take place mechanically and automatically after the dictatorship of the European Union. Thus, Danish courts must not examine the reasonableness or evidence of a request for extradition in the case of an EU arrest order. The European Union has known about these problems since 2007, but has done nothing to change the rules on the EU arrest warrant. The content of the actions that lead to extradition also determines the content of the EU. Among the actions for which Denmark is forced to hand over, you will find among others. Internet crime, racism and xenophobia. But what is meant by that? Can cybercrime cover extradition for targeted sharing of a cat video in violation of copyright? Can racism and xenophobia really affect freedom of expression and debate on the Internet? Can it affect the production of art and satire? Is it racism to demand a strict and sensible foreign policy? Is it xenophobia to call IS terrorists what they are: scum? In Denmark, for example, we value freedom of expression in Germany for historical reasons. Special statements are subject to stricter penalties than in most other European countries, and outcomes against particular groups of people in Germany may result in fines and prison sentences. Does it therefore risk being extradited to Germany for racism or xenophobia if, on holiday in Germany or passing through Germany, an update has been made on Facebook, which is critical of the mass immigration of one's own country? These questions can be answered differently in different EU countries, and therefore it is imperative that Danish courts have the last word when we hand over citizens for legal proceedings in a foreign language in a foreign state. However, the problems with the EU arrest warrant are not in itself the reason why New Citizens will vote no to L 78. The reason is that this is a fundamental principle for New Citizens: respect for Danish self-determination. We will guard the freedom, rights and rule of the Danish people. We do not do so when we allow the European Union to decide who is to be extradited for prosecution. Extradition to other EU countries must take place, as in the case of extradition to third countries • the Danish courts must have the last word. That is why we in the New Citizens' Party reject the new extradition law, because we are rejecting the EU's continued interference in Danish law. No one should risk being extradited for stealing a pig or two car tires or expressing himself freely on the Internet without a Danish court first being able to say no.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210152239	Thank you to the rapporteur. For the sake of good order, I must say that it is good style from the speaking chair of the Folketing not to call people anything other than their name and not to use deliberate insults against communities. Pernille Vermund Pigen is a real pig). It wasn't that expression. I think the rapporteur is well aware of the expression to which I referred, since the rapporteur looked down on Mrs Mette Thiesen, who has used that expression from the parliamentary platform before, and this caused a great deal of debate. Therefore, I should like to stress that I am personally not sensitive to the fact that it is good style not to use such expressions from the Speaker's Chair of the Danish Parliament. Then it's mr. Alex Vanopslagh, whom I choose to call by his name and nothing else. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210152334	It is important that we also maintain international cooperation in the field of extradition. We must be able to expect foreign citizens to be extradited for prosecution in Denmark, which is why our legislation must, of course, also comply with the international obligations we have and the international law in force. That's why the Liberal Alliance supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210152357	No one has asked for the floor for a short comment on Mr Seligman's report. Alex Vanopslagh, and then I can give the floor to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210152404	Thank you for your very broad support for the proposal. I should just like to make a few comments on what has been said. A few rapporteurs, not least the rapporteurs of the Danish People's Party and the SF, made comments about the move on resources in the courts. It is the case that the total economy of the courts in 2019 is small 2 billion. kr., i.e. small 2,000 million. kr., and that the cost covered by this proposal is 2 million. kr., so it is a cost charge of 1 per thousand. It can of course be said that, in this situation too, there should be full compensation, which is a very substantial and legitimate point of view. On the other hand, 1 per thousand is also down to the order of magnitude where it has to be said that, after all, it can be handled well. Then I would just like to make one comment on why the basic structure of the proposal is really sensible. You move the opportunity to make a decision on extradition from the Attorney General to the courts. It is the Attorney General who has done so, but in specific cases the Attorney General is also subject to my power of instruction or to the right of instruction of the Minister of Justice at any time, and one could imagine another country being subject to these rules, which did not have the same high integrity in terms of the separation of politics and law, and thus to certain politically conditional extraditions. That is really what is being countered by making this change of legislation, and that is why it is basically sensible to do it here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210152603	Mrs Pernille Bendixen has asked to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210152609	Thank you, Minister. I can hear that the economy that is being presented sounds very violent when it is said in this way, but it is not for fun to write a worried hearing answer from the Danish Court of Justice. So I just want to know whether the Minister seriously believes that there are no consequences for those who have to deal with these matters, in relation to work pressure and increased workload, etc. etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210152636	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210152637	No, I do not think so, and it is, as I said, a perfectly legitimate view that has been put forward, that is to say, that it is an additional burden for the courts to deal with this • some courts which, by the way, there is a broad recognition of this too in this Chamber. On the other hand, one must also say somewhere that there is a small limit to what needs to be re-regulated, and when one is down in one thousandth of the total economy, then we are down to a very, very modest amount after all.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210152705	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210152708	Well, then you have to pursue that real pig case a little bit. So, is it true, as is being said by New Citizens, that one can be extradited to steal a pig? I find that very interesting to get an answer to.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210152722	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210152725	In spite of the fact that, when I go to the Chamber, I am preparing very carefully for any questions that may be put, this is, after all, on the periphery of the issues that I have managed to deal with in the concrete preparation, so I think I must ask the rapporteur, with all due respect, to put a written question. Then we will solve the pig problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210152745	Certainly Mrs Pernille Vermund has not asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210152754	For once, I have to come to the help of the Minister. It happens sometimes in this area and just tell him that it is the European Council's own report, No. 10975, from 9 July 2007, listing these trivial cases that the theft of a pig is one of.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210152819	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210152821	I thought it might be around, but we are pursuing it and answering the question in writing.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210152827	Does Mrs Pernille Vermund wish to speak? No, we'll thank the Minister for Justice. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210152847	The debate is open. I shall give the floor first to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210152912	The motion for a resolution here requires the government to amend, before the end of this parliamentary year, Paragraph 1 (1) of the Foreign Order. 2. The change shall give parents of children with disabilities the right to take relief assistance granted under Section 84 of the Services Act. 1, cf. section 44, with temporary stay abroad. After all, this is a revised re-submission of two previous motions for resolutions, namely B 101 and B 60, which were both tabled and first dealt with in 2018. Thus, the desire to make it possible to get relief under § 84, according to § 44, abroad, has been discussed several times in this Chamber earlier. When the Danish People's Party has regularly brought up the problem, it is to help families who want to bring their relief on holiday, regardless of whether it is granted under one or the other provision of the Service Act. It is a well-meaning wish for which, despite several attempts, the Danish People's Party failed to meet under the previous government, a government for which the Danish People's Party otherwise served as a parliamentary basis. Although the intentions behind the proposal are still good, the present government, as in the past, cannot support the proposal either. It's not that we don't care about families. Because, of course, it is difficult for parents to understand that the clauses must be decisive in determining whether you can bring relief on vacation. But there is, in fact, a deeper meaning to the way in which the rules are put together. I would like to spend some time explaining that here from the platform today. Where relief under one provision is covered by the exodus notice, while relief under another provision is not, it is related to the general considerations behind the exodus notice. The Order is a derogation from the general principle that assistance under the Service Act requires you to stay in Denmark. So it is only exceptionally that you as a citizen have the right to take help under the Services Act with during temporary stays abroad, including holidays. Therefore, only certain types of aid are included in the foreign policy notice, namely where the purpose of the aid can easily be taken into account abroad and where it can be taken with no greater practical difficulty. This is true, for example. help to cover lost earnings allocated as a cash monthly amount for support, or aids such as wheelchairs, blinds or the like. The overall starting point is important for the specific issue of relief. In fact, there are some real differences between the relief given to families according to the various regulations. Let me start with the type of relief that families can already take abroad today, namely relief granted on the basis of the additional cost clause in section 41 of the Service Act. This type of relief is provided in practice as a cash grant to cover the additional costs incurred by the family in hiring a person who can help the child, for example. in the hours after school, where parents haven't come home from work yet. The relief under § 41 is thus granted for the child in order to meet the child's need for support, typically to deal with some everyday situations that contemporaries can handle themselves. It can, for example, be done. be helping to eat or to get back and forth from a play deal. Relief under § 41 helps to support the child's ability to have a normal everyday life, even when the parents are not there to give a helping hand. In such cases, it may be advantageous for parents to hire the person to help the child themselves. It can, for example, be done. be the neighbor's daughter, who the child knows and is comfortable with. Therefore, it makes good sense that the money to pay the nanny comes with when the family is going on vacation. The financial contribution, for example, will be: can be included in the total bill that parents have to cover if they choose to pay the journey for the nanny, who will then be able to help care for the child during the holiday, just as she will do it at home or, incidentally, he if it was the neighbor boy. The aid for the additional costs of relief under Article 41 is therefore equal to the rest of the allowance granted to parents to cover the additional costs necessary for, for example: medicines or special creams or oils for the child's skin care, even when it comes to the possibility of taking the support abroad. However, relief under Paragraph 84, according to Paragraph 44, which is the subject of the motion for a resolution, has a completely different character. The purpose of relief according to the paragraphs is to give the family a breathing space in everyday life, e.g. a few hours a week or a couple of whole days or weekends a month. If the care needs are very large, it can be difficult for the rest of the family to have time and space for common activities that are not organized according to the child who has a disability. The child must, of course, have the help and support it needs, but relief according to § 84, according to § 44, is given primarily for the benefit of the other family, e.g.: to give parents time to focus exclusively on the other children, i.e. siblings in the family, or time to be with family and friends or just with one another. Precisely because this type of relief is given to children with a very extensive care needs, the municipality has a special responsibility to ensure that relief can meet all the needs of the child. In practice, this often happens by caring for the child in a relief family or in a municipal day or day offer, where both the physical framework and the professional qualifications fit the child. It is therefore up to the municipality to arrange the relief and the municipality to ensure the quality of the offer. Therefore, this type of relief is granted not as a cash grant but as a so-called natural benefit. This means that the municipality provides the necessary resources, including qualified staff, to the child and family. In contrast to the financial contribution under § 41, it is difficult to see how the municipality is to be able to provide this natural benefit while the family is on holiday far away from the borders of the municipality and the country. Nor would it be easy, rather impossible, for the municipality to ensure that a relief offer at a holiday destination can actually provide the necessary help and support, and then it is difficult for the municipality to measure the quality and effort and the physical framework of the offer as they should. Thus, the municipal anchoring of relief under § 84, according to § 44, and the typical organisation of relief offers under this provision make it practically difficult to organise the aid so that the family can take it on holiday. At the same time, it is less obvious to take account of the central and very important purpose of relief, namely to give the rest of the family a breathing space in a busy everyday life, during a holiday, because on a holiday the whole family's association is, fortunately, significantly different than in everyday life, even though the child's care needs are of course still large. So where relief according to § 81 fits well into the overall considerations behind the Foreign Order, this does not apply to relief under § 84, according to § 44. Before I round off, I should also like to touch briefly on the question of the economy, because the Danish People's Party, in its comments on the motion for a resolution, stresses that they, the other times that have been discussed, have not been able to get a clear message of what it will cost to comply with the proposal. I cannot give the clear message today either, but for the sake of good order, I would like to point out that I do not agree with the Danish People's Party that the uncertainty about the economy may mean that the proposal can be implemented at no cost. I am by no means convinced that it can. However, it seems to me that the cost of the proposal is not crucial. What is crucial is the practical and fundamental arguments that I have just presented, and the practical and fundamental considerations and arguments do not depend on whether the proposal is cheap or expensive to implement. In conclusion, I would like briefly to sum up that the Government cannot support the proposal because, according to § 84, relief under § 44, it has a different purpose and a different character than relief under § 41. If we open up the possibility for citizens to benefit in kind as relief under § 84, according to § 44, abroad, it will have a fundamental meaning. We must either oblige the municipality to guarantee the quality of relief also abroad and commit it to stand up to the goal that aid to the child is professionally qualified and matches the child's extensive and often complicated needs, or we must accept that the benefit can have a different content and quality abroad than here at home • a content and quality for which the municipality cannot then be held accountable. In addition, we must be prepared to accept that a response to the proposal will be very likely to have significance which goes beyond the relief area. A response to the motion for a resolution would, in practice, be a dispute with the general considerations behind the foreign policy notice, a dispute which would create pressure for the foreign policy notice to include other benefits of nature which, like relief under § 84, have a character and purpose which makes it difficult to take them on holiday. The government believes that it is neither sensible nor appropriate to open it up. Thus, there are important practical and fundamental challenges in extending the exodus notice so that parents are given the right to be relieved in accordance with § 84, cf. § 44, on vacation. These are challenges which are crucial for the government to reject today's proposal, regardless of the good intentions which undoubtedly lie behind it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210153825	Thank you, Minister. There is one question from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210153834	Thank you. It is, of course, a pity that the government cannot support this resolution. The minister says there's a deeper meaning to what the paragraphs are like. I think that all the families who sit out there and have a child with disabilities may find it hard to see that there is a deeper meaning to what these paragraphs are like. This is especially true of Maise, which is described today by the Muscle Dwindling Foundation on their website and which cannot come on holiday with your family precisely because you cannot get the help with it. I think we have an obligation on the part of the Danish Parliament to change this, and we can, of course, if there are 90 seats that think that families who have a child with disabilities should have the same opportunities as other families who do not have a child with disabilities to go on holiday. So is there no possibility at all that the government will look at this and change it, so also Maise and other children with disabilities can come on holiday abroad with their family?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210153938	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210153940	Unfortunately, I do not know Maise, whom the questioner refers to and which I can understand telling his story on a website today. However, as I also said in my speech, I am fully in favour of the good intentions behind the fact that the Danish People's Party is now tabling the resolution here for the third time. But I have also been very clear about the practical and fundamental reasons why the government cannot comply with the proposal, just as the previous government could not. As a family with a child with disabilities, I also went through that in my speech. This is true, for example. in relation to the disabled car, helping to cover lost earnings. So there are some options, and there are some things that support that families can come on holiday. And then I hope that families can go on vacation regardless of relief according to § 84, cf. And vacation is per. I do not think that one requires the other.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210154054	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210154057	Now it is the case that the municipality must provide either a relief place or other if the family chooses to go on vacation. And in the article on the muscle loss fund website, which I think the Minister should read, it is very well described that as a family you obviously find it difficult to leave your child at home while the rest of the family goes on holiday. At least this family tells us they won't. But I have to say that the government will not find a solution at all to this problem which affects a great many families who have a child with disabilities. It is, of course, the case that several decisions of principle have been taken, and it is also stated here that relief aid cannot be granted under other provisions of the Service Act for the sole purpose of bringing relief abroad. So there aren't so many options for this. So will the Minister take part in looking at this so that we can change it, or will the Minister not?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210154158	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210154200	Thank you. I would very much like to read the story and the article on Maise, and I am sure that I can find it on the website myself, and otherwise there are guaranteed talented people who can help me with it, or I can come down and get it from the rapporteur. And I think I have clearly explained the government's rejection of the proposal here, although I recognise the good intentions.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210154221	Then we thank the Minister. We move on to the rapporteur's line, and the first is Mr. Daniel Toft Jakobsen of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210154237	Thank you. It is certainly not a great surprise that I am very much in agreement with the Minister, which is why I shall be relatively brief. When you read the motion for a resolution, it is very clear that what the proposers and the Danish People's Party want is to help that families with a child with disabilities have the same opportunities to take holidays and go abroad as all sorts of other families. And it is important for me to say that we are of course in agreement with that wish and that starting point. We just think that there are some economic and, above all, some practical issues associated with this proposal, which means that we cannot vote for it. When relief is granted to a family according to the provision on which this resolution is concerned, i.e. Article 84 of the Services Act, according to § 44, there are some requirements for the quality of the relief offer, which it will actually be very difficult to ensure compliance with if relief can be taken abroad. This is true, for example. in relation to the physical framework and the competence of the staff. The relief under § 84 is often granted for a certain limited period of time • it could be one evening a week or one weekend a month • and typically outside the home of a relief family or in a municipal offer. Although it could in principle be planned that a municipal worker could take a relief person abroad, there is a challenge in terms of pay, residence, the provision of suitable physical conditions and other things, because the relief person cannot, by its very nature, take the physical environment from home and, of course, cannot travel home during periods of stay abroad where relief is not provided. So, as we see it, there are some practical things and also some fundamental things in relation to the quality of the relief and to the responsibility of the municipality to ensure the quality of the relief, to which the resolution here does not provide an answer. So social democracy cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210154453	There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210154456	It won't come as a surprise. The rapporteur says that this is a good idea as a starting point. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur: does the rapporteur think that families who have a child with disabilities should have the same opportunities as families who do not have a child with disabilities and could travel southwards abroad for a period of time? Or does the rapporteur think that families should not have that? Because then there is a job you can do to solve this, rather than saying that you do not support this resolution. Then it may be that the rapporteur has some other suggestions on how to ensure that families who have a child with disabilities can also go on holiday abroad.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210154542	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210154545	What I said at the beginning of my rapporteur's speech was that we in the Social Democratic Party share what I also understand is the starting point for the proposal here, namely that it should be the case that there are the same opportunities for going on holiday for families with a disabled child as for all sorts of other families. That is the starting point for values and attitudes, and we share that wish. I do not have any solutions in my back pocket, in relation to whether or not to do anything else here, but I would like to point out some types of help, including for families with disabled children, which you can already take with you, i.e. to cover these costs under section 41: aids, help to cover lost earnings, etc. There are, of course, some benefits which it is quite natural to be able to take, and then there are these benefits in kind, where it is far, far more challenging, both practical and in principle, if they are to be included.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210154651	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210154652	There is something I do not understand in what the Socialist rapporteur says. It is said that the resolution actually shares the view and that there should be equal opportunities. But there are no equal opportunities. But we have the opportunity to create equal opportunities here from the Danish Parliament... that requires 90 mandates. And now all I have to do is understand from the Socialist rapporteur that the Social Democrats and the government will not be involved in this; they will not help to look at how we can help families who have a child with disabilities so that they can also go on holiday abroad. If I understand the rapporteur's speech correctly, the Social Democracy will not help to look at this area at all, in terms of how we ensure that we help families who have children with disabilities.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210154736	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210154737	I have not been a disability rapporteur long enough to be able to deny that there is something I have not looked at. I would like to see very unbiased in the whole area of disability, and I would also very much like to listen to the story that the questioner mentioned earlier, with Maise and so on. But now it is a question of this specific motion for a resolution, in which a specific paragraph will be included in the foreign policy notice and, as I see it, it poses both practical and fundamental problems, also in relation to the quality of the relief, which means that we cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210154812	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. This is Mrs Anni Matthiesen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210154820	Thank you for that and thank you to the DF for putting this motion for a resolution back on the table. As has been said by previous rapporteurs, it has been dealt with a few times in the past. This motion for a resolution refers to the desire to require the government before the end of this parliamentary year to amend the foreign declaration so that parents of children with disabilities can in future take the help for relief and granted under the Service Act. First of all, I would like to say that I really have a great deal of sympathy for this area and indeed also for working to find solutions. But I also have to point out, as previous rapporteurs have done and also, for that matter, the Minister, that there are some issues in relation to precisely section 41 of the Service Act. No, it is not here that there is a problem, but it is here that you can actually get some help along the way to some of these things, among other things. Yes, if you go on vacation abroad. Having said that, Article 44 and Article 84 are again of a different nature, and that is also why we in the Left, as the resolution is here today, are not going to vote in favour of it. However, I would also like to stress that we would very much like to go along with a work to make some way or other a joint report on this, which may even be made across the parties. For it is clear that we must do everything we can, including here in the Folketing, to ensure the best possible conditions. But we also need to ensure that there is, of course, a quality in what you then also deliver. This is probably some of the things that I have a concern about in this motion for a resolution. In other words, if you followed what it said, what would you actually offer the disabled when they were on vacation? So from that point of view I have to say that we do not support the resolution, but, as I have said, we would very much like to be involved in possibly drawing up a joint report during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210155031	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210155033	We are the politicians of the Folketing and we can change what we think should change. And if, as a parliamentary politician, it is unreasonable that a family that has a child with disabilities cannot take help abroad, then we can change it. We can change what we want if we have a majority. So the question to the Left is: if you do not want to support this proposal, what solution does the Left have to ensure that families who have a child with disabilities can also go on holiday abroad and take the help with it? Because, as I mentioned earlier, there is a decision in principle by the Ankestyrelsen that relief aid cannot be granted under another provision of the Service Act for the sole purpose of bringing relief abroad. So where will we find the solution if we do not want to support this resolution?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210155124	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210155127	In reply to that, I am actually surprised that Mrs Karina Adsbøl may not choose to work in some other direction. Well, now is the third time we have dealt with this proposal in the House. I think I might try to achieve more by other means. There I have to say that in some of the paragraphs which we have included. We have also mentioned a number of options. I would not deny, then, that if you looked at those paragraphs, you might be able to look at whether there were better options, possibly also by adjusting them.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210155204	Mrs. Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210155206	It must be total ignorance on the part of the Left rapporteur about what the rapporteur is talking about from the platform. Because I have just tried to do so, among other things. We also had a previous motion for a resolution in which we changed it so that the money could keep up, precisely because we discussed it in the Parliamentary Assembly, where the rapporteur thought there were good intentions in relation to going the other way. We have also tried to put that forward here in the Parliamentary Chamber. In addition, I have raised it in the pool of rates in several rounds, i.e. how to find a solution. So it must be ignorance when the rapporteur says it from the platform today.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210155244	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210155246	I don't think so. On the contrary, I think that it is because the Left is also responsible for managing the economy, firstly, before starting to promise something to the people, and secondly, I also think that we should have the quality that we offer. And I have to say that with the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party here today, I am nervous about the quality of what is being offered.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210155308	Thank you to Mrs Anni Matthiesen. The next in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen from the Radical Left. This is a motion for a resolution, which is why Mrs Karina Adsbøl is finally given the floor to pick up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210155326	Thank you. I was also momentarily confused by it; it's not that easy, all of it. Thank you to the proposer for a well-intentioned proposal. I am absolutely prepared, like the previous speaker, to go along with a joint report on this proposal, because I think the intentions are good. As is currently the case, there are many unanswered questions about the economy, and I also think that the Minister made a number of points which have considerable weight when I look at the matter, but we are prepared to try to go along with a joint report with the proposer, and then I will reserve my vote until we have tried it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210155408	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210155412	Thank you. Now the rapporteur of the Radicals has been in favour of finding some sort of solution to this challenge in the past. But I would like to hear from the rapporteur what exactly makes it impossible to vote in favour of this proposal. Well, we have a number of families who want it here, and we also have a number of organisations who want it here. I also do not know whether the rapporteur has today read the article on the muscle loss fund's website, which describes this issue very well. It is the case that today the municipality must provide relief, or you can go to an institution during the week if the family leaves. The rapporteur also mentions the economy, but can we not look at the economics of it? And so, what do you think about in relation to the family as a whole? It will give the family a quality of life that you can travel together and get it help with. So I find it a little difficult to see exactly what you cannot vote for here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210155516	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210155518	Thank you. As I said, I am absolutely prepared to go along with a joint report on this proposal, but I cannot see for the moment the economy presented by the proposer, because of course there will be savings in one place and expenditure elsewhere. And no, how it's picked up, I can't see on my feet. I have not had the opportunity to read the article on the Muscle Dwindling Fund website, although I received it as an e-mail earlier today, but I have only seen that it was there today. And I'd love to read it, too. I am completely sympathetic to the problem, but if it is not properly explained what is of economics in it and I do not actually feel convinced that it is • and when you hear important speeches like what we heard from the Minister, then of course we must take it into consideration. That is also why, as I said, I am happy to take a positive and constructive approach to the work on a joint report and reserve my vote until we have tried it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210155609	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210155611	However, I do not know whether the rapporteur has heard today that the economy has not been elucidated at all. The Minister has also indicated this today that you cannot do so. But I just want to say that this article says: "Maise's help must not be spent on family holidays abroad. Even if it does not cost the municipality extra, help given as relief may only be used in Denmark. So I think that the rapporteur should have a good dialogue with the organisations and families affected, and then see if the rapporteur can become a little wiser and vote in favour of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210155645	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210155648	I take that as a comment and not a question, but thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210155650	No one else has asked for the floor. There is, of course, such a tradition that we do not use this House for debates, since it is very difficult for the rapporteurs here from the platform to deal with these individual cases, which can, however, be used as examples in a more broad sense. We must move on in the rapporteur's line, so it is SF by Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210155726	Thank you for that, President. Thank you for the floor. It is SF's view that all citizens have the right to a good and active life, even if they have a disability. One of the things that can really put a suit on everyday life is breaking out of everyday comforts, getting off under foreign skies and experiencing other cultures and preferably with some of the people that we love most. That is why I think it is unfortunate that families with children who need special social education support cannot be allowed to share exactly this kind of experience on an equal footing with all other families with children. It is not possible today to bring relief abroad, which means that families must be left alone with it when they go on holiday. This means less time for the other children who may also be in the family, but it can also make it difficult to load the batteries, as many people are just going on holiday to do, and in some cases the family chooses to leave the child with disabilities at home from the holiday and leave the child at a relief establishment paid by the municipality. Whatever the solutions mentioned, I think it is really sad that families with a child with disabilities cannot have the opportunity to go on holiday, as I said just now, on an equal footing with all other families with children. The SF supports the proposal, of course, because families must be given the opportunity to take relief to temporarily stay abroad when a child is searched for, for example, social pedagogy support or other forms of help. Then it must be written into the visitation that it also applies to temporary stays abroad, because, as we have said in many other contexts, we always think, of course, that the child's best interests are the most important. We imagine that one helper can be taken with it should not be a larger team, because there must also be some sense in it when the family leaves on vacation and that the relief is done in cooperation with the family, so that the rules for working time also have to be observed. We believe that the proposal should be financed solely by the savings that society actually makes by saving a relief stay at a Danish daily institution. It's not very cheap. The next committee will have to deal with this, among other things. We have discussed this in the past, and we hope that we will get a little closer to it, but also, in reality, what our society will be able to save by this kind of relief where you don't have to go to a 24-hour institution. Now this fine motion for a resolution is something that we support, but other options could also be considered. It could also be considered to create new opportunities in the legislation which allow families to take the present aid with them so that parents manage it themselves. We think this is important. What is important here is to focus on having solutions for families, because we believe that families who have children with disabilities have the right to take holidays on an equal footing with other families. We have a disability convention to which we have nodded, and it must also apply in the practice we make in our society, because then we can share the experiences that are so important to a family. That is why we are positive about the proposal and look forward to looking into how we can make some good and sensible solutions for these families. Now we need to get away from more talk and more action. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210160107	There is a question from Mrs Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210160110	Thank you and thank you for the SF rapporteur's speech. The very thing about trying to get closer and find solutions we in the Left would also really like to take part in, so I would like to ask a few questions to find out what SF really is thinking. Let us assume that a child has been granted, for example. 15 hours of relief a week or, for that matter, relief every Saturday. If you as a family want to take, for example. 3 weeks maybe to Kenya or somewhere else in the world, how will SF deal with such a situation in practice?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210160153	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210160155	What it should be based on is the best interests of the child, and this is, of course, something on which a decision can be taken in cooperation with the caseworker. It is true that when you have a relief that applies to every Saturday, it is not for a whole week. But I also think that we should have rules that are flexible enough to say that if there is something that speaks for it, we can turn it up or down or do the relief differently for a period of time. Because that is actually the kind of decision you make in the municipalities. It is, of course, the case that the municipalities are in continuous contact with these citizens and sometimes also correct the offers. So it will be one option if we adopt this particular motion for a resolution. The second thing I mentioned, which could be a completely new option, would be to say that it is parents who manage the interventions in question. This means that parents can in this way move around the efforts they have already been given by the caseworker and that they are confident that families can do so, of course within the framework of working time rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210160256	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210160258	That is precisely where I think we are moving into something that I can at least, when I look at this, also see can be difficult. I have a great deal of sympathy for trying to think in solutions, but I must also say that what worries me, among other things. is, if you then say: It is fair enough that you get your companion with you for 3 weeks to Kenya, even if you are normally granted only 15 hours a week; but of course you have to agree with the companion when he takes the time off, and you must ensure that the working time rules are observed yourself. Who's gonna control it in Kenya?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210160335	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210160337	It must be based on trust. I understand that nothing here is easy, but what we need to remember is that these families of children are given the opportunity to go on holiday, as every other family has in this country. And it just cannot be done at this stage if you have a child with extensive disabilities. That is what we must remember is the most important thing, and then we must help to be a tracker in finding the right solutions, regardless of the challenges that are also posed by this very complex legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210160409	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210160412	I would like to drill a little more into what Mrs Matthiesen is asking. We have a family that has been granted 15 hours of relief a week. If they take the relief person abroad, there will be no more than 1 day or less than 1 day before the 15 hours are exhausted. But it's a whole week. So you can quickly figure out that the cost of this thing is multiplied because it's 24 hours a day, you're away from your home and you need to get paid. How does SF think that can be solved?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210160451	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210160452	Some of the solutions that have also been seen in other situations, which are for adults with disabilities, are, of course, that some contracts are also concluded around holidays. Because what we are also saying is that we do not see that there is a whole team of helpers going, but that we are making an agreement with the helper concerned to be present during this one week's holiday somewhere, and then we are making these framework rules on working time rules, and we have laid down the working time rules. So there's really nothing new about that. I think it is more an internship that can actually succeed if it is we are trying to start giving opportunities for these families to travel abroad with some help.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210160534	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210160536	I am aware that other problems can be solved. But this problem is that if you have relief in, for example. 15 hours a week and must bring a relief person from Denmark for one week or two weeks' holiday, after all the 24 hours of the day, this person must be paid even if he does not necessarily relieve 24 hours of the day, but because he is at work, he is away from his home. Then it will happen that the 15 hours allocated per week are spent in just 15 hours on the first day, and then there are several days left. Where are we gonna get the money for all that pay?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210160621	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210160622	First of all, I would like to remind Mr. Ole Birk Olesen says that this is actually about some families with children who have robbed the opportunity to go on vacation. We have to keep that in mind so that we do not get lost in small details. Other solutions also exist if you go to colonies with working time agreements that are not one by one. So in this way I see that it can be resolved, of course, in respect of people's working time rules and that it must be right and fair. But I'm actually convinced this is gonna work out.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210160653	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more questions. We're moving on, and that's sir. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210160702	Thank you. The proposal here is very well known, at least for those of us who sat here during the last period. We have not dealt with identical proposals, but similar proposals, both earlier this year and back in 2017-2018, and Enhedslisten has on both occasions supported Dansk Folkeparti's proposal to authorise the granting of assistance under section 84 of the Service Act, so that parents of children with disabilities can include the relief aid during holiday periods abroad, and we can also back up this time. I fully agree with the authors of the motion for a resolution when it is described that it seems inexplicable that we have legislation designed so that, if you leave without your child with a disability, the family can receive support so that the child in question can go to a 24-hour institution during the period or find other types of care arrangements. We have dealt with this several times, and Mrs Adsbøl mentioned it in her reply some time ago, namely that there have been various variants of this proposal, and one of them, as far as I remember, was that natural aid was converted into cash aid, not cash benefits, but cash benefits, because perhaps that could be the solution, because there are various technicalities associated with natural aid, which the last questioner has mentioned, and which the Minister has mentioned in her speech. At that time, the proposers and the rest of us were told that it was not a viable path, and now we are trying this way again. I could hear from the Minister's speech that there are several different objections. One is the question of such a more fundamental question, whether this question can now be covered by the derogation provided for in the foreign regulations, i.e. the exemption from the granting of aid to citizens staying in this country. I can easily understand the principle of this, and of course we have to take a position on this, as has already been done with the benefits that people can receive under the foreign regulations. Then there is a reflection on quality. In this respect, I also fully agree that public opinion should of course have a consideration on how to ensure quality. There I think, as the SF's rapporteur said, one might consider saying that special agreements could be made on this type of stay abroad, and I can easily see that one might ask: can one make other quality requirements in relation to aid abroad than one can at home? Yeah, maybe you can. In fact, I thought it was worth considering. Finally, the Minister mentions that there is an economic problem: is this just too expensive? Perhaps that is what is at the heart of the problem. I think it is important that we try to find solutions together, and I am pleased to hear that several rapporteurs have mentioned the same thing. Well, it's obvious there's no majority for this. I think it would be a good thing if we were a little thorough in the work of the committee and found out: is there a majority in this Parliament against the fact that help is given for relief if children are abroad? Because if there is a majority in favour of this, perhaps the proposers and the rest of us can be spared the opportunity to discuss it too many more times in this Assembly. Then that's what it is. I cannot understand the position if there is a direct opposition to spending money on relief aid. If, on the other hand, it is the practical problems of principle that are real, then I think it must be possible for the parties of the Folketing to sit down and discuss what solutions are needed. There should therefore be no doubt that we in the Enhedslisten believe that it must be a right, that there is an equal opportunity for families who have a child with disabilities, so that they can take the child in question with them when they are going on a short-term holiday, and I am convinced that if we sit together and bend a little towards each other and make an effort, then we simply need to find a solution to this problem. So I can see that there is no majority in favour of the proposal. I hope that there will be a majority in favour of a report where we go in and point out other concrete options than those indicated in the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210161206	So far, two people are asking questions. The first is Mrs Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210161209	Thank you, and thank you for Enhedslisten's speech. There is something I would like to try to ask you about, because I know that among other things. The Enhedslisten also cares a great deal about the working environment and to ensure that the working time rules, etc. are observed. There I am thinking, when we discuss quality, of the fact that, at least in the case of the Left, it is also about the quality of the working conditions that the support person may have when he is on holiday, for example. Again in Kenya. How does Enhedslisten think that you want to ensure that e.g. the rules on working time, working conditions, etc. will be respected for the employee if you are on vacation?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210161256	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210161259	I think that working conditions must be based on a negotiated solution. The SF's rapporteur referred to the rules that exist in other areas, and I myself have had the pleasure of negotiating agreements where special agreements are made at the moment of weekend excursions, in colonial stays, etc. Then the existing working time agreements are put out of effect during that period and agree on a certain set of rules which correspond to the reality of the employee concerned for a period of time that is quite different from the way the work is carried out on a daily basis. So, of course, there have to be arrangements, but I think it will be possible to make an agreement with the staff professional organisation concerned that you have some working time rules that are specially adapted to this period of relief abroad.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210161351	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210161353	Following on from that and just to think the reality into this motion for a resolution: one could imagine that there was a disabled child who simply needed a lift and so on while on holiday. Is it something where Enhedslisten thinks that it should be the family that somehow sign that there are also the aids etc. is available, even for the relief person, so that you do not risk harming the person who is employed, because it is in quite a different framework than it may be in a day-to-day life when it happens at home?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210161432	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210161433	In general, I think that all work should be carried out under safe working conditions. So, yes, I think the family will then have an employer responsibility during that period. After all, we know from the BPA how to leave a management and employer relationship both to the citizen himself and also to relatives after other paragraphs, and I think that we should be able to do so here. However, even if we have to equate families with children with disabilities, we must of course also ensure that those who do the work do so in reassuring conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210161510	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210161512	Yes, words are free of charge, and that also applies to the words spoken here from the parliamentary platform, when you want some people in society to believe that you are willing to grant money for the purpose that they support. There have just been financial law negotiations.That is where you discuss how much money you can set free for new purposes and how that money should be spent.And Enhedslisten participated full time in the financial law negotiations. Can the Enhedslisten's rapporteur explain why it was not that money was set aside for this purpose when Enhedslisten thinks it is such a good idea? Was it perhaps because there were some other things you thought were more important?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210161552	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210161553	In the area of disability, the Enhedslisten had set out to address first and foremost the problem of lack of support for monitoring, both for young people and for adults, if it is today life-threatening for them if they do not have support for monitoring in their own homes. That is what we were aiming for in particular, and we spent 60 million. kr. On it. In addition, we have an agreement with the government and from before it was government with the Social Democracy, the SF and the Radical Left to go in and look at an evaluation of the entire disability area, and there I would say that this could obviously be an area that we went in and looked at.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210161635	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210161637	I agree that if you have 60 million. kr. in a financial bill negotiation, it's a better way to spend the money than for this purpose. Can the Enhedslisten's rapporteur confirm that if this motion for a resolution is put to the vote in the Assembly, then the Enhedslisten will vote against it because the Enhedslisten in the Finance Law negotiations has decided that the money will be spent in a different way?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210161657	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210161658	No, I can't confirm that. It is, after all, in this matter that the government is being asked to draft a bill. When the draft law is put before the author, it must also include funding, and then it will come to a specific decision here in the Parliamentary Chamber. So no, I cannot confirm that the Enhedslisten will vote against such a proposal. This will, of course, also depend on the nature and content of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210161727	Then we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. Next is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210161743	Thank you to the Danish People's Party for tabling the motion for a resolution here, which proposes that parents of children with disabilities can take the relief they receive on a daily or weekend basis during a stay abroad. The Danish People's Party, as I understand it, wants to give families with children with disabilities the opportunity to take holidays abroad on an equal footing with other families, which is quite understandable. I think everyone can understand how challenging it can be for a family with a child with, for example, a child. a brain injury or a spastic paralysis to get on holiday when the legislation does not allow you to take the help you receive in everyday life with you abroad. Despite the sympatheticness of the proposal, Conservatives cannot support the proposal, partly because it presents some practical challenges, partly because it is also expected to entail high public expenditure. First of all, help under the Service Act is also conditional on having a stay in Denmark; this means that you have to be in Denmark when you receive the help. There is, however, an exception, as the Minister also mentioned, in the foreign policy notice for some types of aid that you have the right to take with you abroad during a temporary stay, including a holiday and it is help like this. • additional cost benefits, lost earnings and aids, disabled cars, etc. They are characterized by the fact that it is possible to take them abroad without major difficulties. In relation to relief, I see some challenges that make it complicated to take it abroad. Relief is granted and provided by a municipal employee, and relief takes place either in the family's own home, where the municipal employee shows up and relieves the family, or in a relief institution where the child is staying during relief. This naturally makes it difficult to take relief abroad, unlike if it had been a cash benefit, i.e. money in the hand, which can easily be taken with it. Relief is usually granted for short periods of time, but is fixed in advance with the municipality; for example, it can be one everyday night per week or one weekend per month. If we are to go down the road that we are going to take in the resolution here and take the relief person abroad, for example. on holiday, it will have some financial consequences. This will mean that financial resources will have to be allocated to the salary, residence etc. of the relief person. e.g. a foreign holiday, because the relief person cannot go home during periods of stay abroad when the person does not provide relief. I am missing an economic calculation from the Danish People's Party in the motion for a resolution, which highlights the consequences of the motion for a resolution, because I see these economic challenges if we open up the door to take relief with us during a temporary stay abroad, including on holidays that are not highlighted in the proposal here. Conservatives cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210162123	There is a question from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210162126	Now, as described in the motion for a resolution, we have put questions to the former minister about these calculations precisely in relation to the fact that a place of relief or a 24-hour establishment can be made available during the period when the family leaves. You cannot bring your child with disabilities on vacation, but you can have a 24 - hour hospital or a place of relief available. In view of the economic challenges mentioned by the rapporteur, can the rapporteur not see that, as it may be, it is fairly equal compared to what a 24-hour space costs in the intervening period compared with relief? I cannot give an answer when the Ministry of Finance cannot give an answer. But the essence is: does the rapporteur think that families who have a child with disabilities should be able to take their child with disabilities on holiday abroad?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210162231	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210162233	As I understand the rapporteur's question, it comes from the assumption that families do not take their children on holiday and instead place their children on a day-to-day basis. I now believe that most families really want to take their children on vacation. So I do not believe that this is the case and that it can then be said that this is equal to the cost of taking some form of relief on a foreign trip. Therefore, there is simply a lack of calculations which I think the Danish People's Party might have been informed at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210162314	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210162315	We've been trying to get those calculations through several rounds. Having said that, the rapporteur has a point in relation to the one with relief and a day-to-day institution, because that is something you can get paid for. But the whole essence of this is that there is a saving for the municipalities and for the state, precisely because many families probably do not use the offers in one week's time in the institution or a relief place. There's a saving in it. You can have a place of relief made available and you can get an institution space, you just can't bring relief abroad. I would just like to ask the rapporteur: will the rapporteur help to find a solution so that families who have a child with disabilities can go on holiday abroad?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210162406	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210162407	I am open to looking at various proposals if we can clarify all the things that lie in it. Because there are more things in this. There is also that: who is to ensure the working conditions of a stay abroad? Who is to ensure that rules are observed? In addition to economic things, there are also things in relation to quality. After all, there are many things that need to be highlighted in this regard, in addition to the economic consequences. So there are some things missing from the Danish People's Party before we can say that it is a way to go down.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210162449	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210162456	Thank you, President. It was a technical review for further information when the Minister explained why families with children with disabilities should not be able to take relief aid abroad. And I was actually thinking that maybe it's really impossible, but then I thought that the place in the country where you can actually change the paragraphs is here. In all the technical explanations given by the Minister, I was also thinking about Maise, as the DF's rapporteur has mentioned, because I have also been on the muscle loss fund website and read about Maise, which is being offered an institutional seat while the family is on holiday. And imagine, she'll be sitting there in an institution or a foster family while her siblings and the rest of the family are on vacation. There the paragraphs don't matter a bit to me. I mean, I don't think we humans should conform to paragraphs, we should fit the paragraphs according to people's well-being when it comes to a child with disabilities being able to come on holiday with his parents. And I know that relief is about giving the family a breathing space in a busy everyday life, but I understand from the Minister that she doesn't think that giving a breath in a busy everyday life makes sense when you're on holiday. But in the alternative we turn it around, so we think it is particularly important that families who have children with disabilities can experience their holiday as a real respite from a busy everyday life. I also believe that, through a special contract or agreement, we can somehow guarantee one quality, so that safety and the working environment, etc. It's okay. So we are happy to vote in favour of this proposal or to help find a solution to how to find out what is of economics in it and how to solve it, so that families with children with disabilities can bring their children on holiday.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210162657	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210162707	I was actually quite happy when I saw this proposal from the Danish People's Party, because I have spoken to a great many parents who are facing this problem and who, as the Danish People's Party rapporteur, Karina Adsbøl, also said earlier, are actually being offered that their child can go to a 24-hour institution while the family is on holiday. And I think that for the vast majority of us this sounds quite absurd, because of course Danish families with disabled children must have the same opportunities as all of us to take a holiday with their children. I have two boys myself, and I can't even imagine having to put one of them in an institution while I took the other on vacation. So this makes really good sense. Of course, as a family you want to be with your children just when you take a vacation. And that is why I think that this is a very positive proposal which we can fully support, but also a proposal which should give rise to, if nothing else, at least a discussion on how we can link these things together. That is why it makes no sense when we hear of the individual cases mentioned earlier by the rapporteur, where, for example, as I said, a day-care centre is being offered to his child so that the family can go on holiday. These families basically just want to take a vacation with their children. I think they should be given the opportunity to do so. What is quality? There is much discussion here about whether it is us politicians who have to assess how and how quality is. But if the parents and the family are satisfied with the offer that they can get, for example, made available by the municipality, well then I think it is really fine. And then I just couldn't help noticing that there was a rapporteur I think it was the rapporteur of the Left who mentioned it here with working conditions when you go on holiday as an employee. Now I am a school teacher myself, and I have been to camp schools on several occasions when it was possible, and I should say that we had fine working conditions. Well, I guess that's possible in this area, too, isn't it? However, it is a very good proposal and we support the proposal and, if nothing else, I hope that it will give rise to a discussion so that we can find a solution for these families in broad terms so that they can spend their holidays with their children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210162937	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210162945	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance cannot support the motion for a resolution. It has a number of practical challenges that I find difficult to see how we can solve. I find it difficult to see that the help provided by these families with disabled children in their everyday lives can be transferred directly abroad without it becoming much more expensive, and then the question is whether this additional price is in line with what you get out of it. We must remember that we are dealing here with families who are relieved. That is to say, they are families who can handle their handicapped children, but who sometimes get help either at home or outside the home in order to have a daily life where things go a little easier. So they can handle their own children, and that means that they can, if they bring their own children on holiday. The example mentioned, which is mentioned at the muscle-wind fund.dk, is also an example of a family that has had their daughter on vacation and has handled things themselves, but it has not been so relaxing a holiday, one understands the article, and I am quite sure it is not, but it does not measure up to the huge extra cost that the public would have to pay if we had to pay a person to be away for a whole week abroad to relieve the family. So we cannot back this, and in any case we must demand that the next time you ask the Ministry the question: how much is this? And then you can assess to what extent it is possible to find that money.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210163142	There are some questions. The first is from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210163145	Thank you. Yes, that question has also been asked in the past and, as the Minister also stated in his speech, it cannot be calculated. I would like to know if the rapporteur, when he says this at cost, does not know that in principle, because we have not been able to get any calculations on it, will help to see if the money could follow the family. This means that you can get an offer to have a 24-hour establishment while you are away. It could be a way to go. In any case, I know that the rapporteur's former colleague was prepared to look at whether or not we could go this way. We have already put forward proposals to see whether this was a way to go, and that can be pulled out of the hat again in relation to allowing the money to follow the family.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210163240	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210163242	If it is possible to keep up with the money spent on the everyday offer given to the family abroad, and that can solve the problem, then I and the Liberal Alliance are certainly willing to look at it. Of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210163302	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210163303	I would then like to know whether the Liberal Alliance rapporteur thinks that it is fair, as it is today, that there is no possibility of taking the relief so that families with children with disabilities find it difficult to go abroad, precisely because there are some barriers to legislation. And does the rapporteur see that this can be resolved in other ways?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210163329	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210163329-2	It was, after all, a slightly different wording from that used by Mrs Karina Adsbøl on the other issues in this Chamber, where Mrs Adsbøl has asked whether it is not reasonable for these families to be able to go on holiday. It certainly is, and so can they. Then the question is whether it is reasonable for them to be able to come on holiday with a person who is paid by the government to provide relief abroad. If this is possible without the cost exceeding the good that is associated with it, then I would very much like to take part in it, and if the cost is the same as the one that is borne in Denmark, then I am also very willing to look at it, but if it is a much greater cost, we will have to assess whether it is something we can afford.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210163413	Mrs. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210163416	Thank you. I have a little doubt as to whether the rapporteur is involved in what we are dealing with, because for many of these families, it is children with very extensive disabilities who are unable to cope at all and need support perhaps 24 hours and may need monitoring or other really intrusive support. Does the rapporteur really believe that it is up to the family itself and that there really is equal opportunities? I think it must also be a freedom agenda that families who have a child with a disability also have the opportunity. They do not have equal opportunities for it, but they have quite different options, precisely because there are these challenges. Does the Liberal Alliance also believe that it will then be the price and the money that are more important than the right of these families, or at least just the opportunity to go on holiday?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210163514	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210163515	After all, it is a relief allowance for families who are normally able to deal with their disabled child. So they are offered relief. But I don't understand SF at all in this context. SF has just entered into a finance agreement with the government, where it has not chosen to allocate money for this purpose. A financial agreement has been drawn up for 2020, where throughout 2020 there is no money for this purpose. The rapporteur for the SF cannot then stand down here and blame me for the fact that I and the Liberal Alliance cannot find money for this purpose. The SF can't do that on its own.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210163559	Mrs. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210163601	Now, unfortunately, the SF does not have a majority of seats in this Chamber and here in the Danish Parliament, and that is why the Finance Act also looks as it does. It's a compromise. It's a great thing. That's the way it is. In fact, however, I would like to reserve the right to ask some of the considerations underlying the position of the Liberal Alliance in this. Does it really mean that these families also have freedom and opportunity to go on vacation? Because it's but believe me, it's not an easy task.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210163645	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210163646	I have the questioner from the SF, on the other hand, did not explain why the questioner is standing down here in the Assembly Hall and on the platform and telling people that SF is willing to allocate money to this, when the SF really thinks that the money should be spent everywhere else instead. SF has given priority to other things in the Finance Act, among others. there must be a certain number of educators in kindergartens where ordinary, well-functioning children are, not in kindergartens who have particularly weak children or challenged children, but ordinary children from middle-class families. It seems SF was more important than this, which apparently according to SF is so important because it's about families that can't do anything themselves. After all, it is wrong that the SF should try to pretend that this is indeed a priority here, when, in the context of financial law, quite other things are given a much higher priority.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210163737	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions. Then we turn to the rapporteur for the proposers, and that is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210163749	Thank you. Do the rapporteurs and the Minister here in Parliament think that families with a child with a disability should be able to take holidays with their children, or do the rapporteur and the Minister think that the rules are good enough as they are today? In the Danish People's Party, we want families who have children with disabilities, of course, to have the opportunity to take holidays on an equal footing with other families. In practice, it is therefore important whether relief to families is granted under one or the other provision of the Services Act. And the Danish People's Party wishes, as has also been debated today, that parents who care for a child or a young person under the age of 18 with a disability in the home and are granted relief aid under section 84 of the Service Act. 1, according to section 44, must be able to obtain relief assistance during temporary stays abroad. It is, of course, something we have put forward in several rounds, as has been the case in the past, but also in various ways, precisely because we think it is reasonable. Because it is the case today that when a family with a disabled child cannot include assistance under the Service Act, the family as an alternative, as we have also discussed today, will be able to leave the child at home in an institution or in a relief family, as the municipality is allowed to cover the cost of it. And in relation to the economics that have been debated today, we do not believe that it will be costly, because the money could, in principle, follow the child. We have also asked for a calculation of this in the past, because we just wanted to clarify it so that we could not refuse the resolution, we might say, from the economic point of view. And there we have received an answer saying that it has not been realistic and possible to make a realistic assessment of it. Most parents who care for a child or a young person with a disability in the home do not, after all, like all other parents, have the opportunity to charge, relax and get energy for their everyday life when they are on holiday because they cannot include help to care for their children with disabilities. The extensive care assignment that comes with having a child with disabilities can also take the attention of siblings and the time from the children in the family when a family with a disabled child cannot include this relief. That is why we have a desire to solve this challenge, and so have the organisations, and so have the families, because it is more than two years ago that we had appeared in the Committee on Social Affairs on this particular issue, where a family had their children and told us about the challenges that there were. And there we actually agreed in the Committee on Social Affairs that we should ask about it and try to see if we could find a solution to it and we in the Danish People's Party have tried that ever since. But I would really like to thank the SF, the Enhedslisten and, above all, the New Citizens and the Alternative for supporting this proposal. After all, I have a desire to find a solution in some way, because what it is basically about I can hear is that somebody wants to find hair in this soup, after all, is whether families who have a child with disabilities should have equal opportunities as families who do not have a child with disabilities. And it acts among other things. that you should be able to go on holiday, that is to say be abroad during shorter stays. So the question is whether we can come to some sort of agreement to work on this in some way. Instead of finding hair in the soup, I think you should take the lead by either making some suggestions for how we help families or how we ensure that children can go with their families on vacation. I have to see in committee whether we can somehow reach each other. At least once again, I would like to thank all of you who supported it. I'm really glad. And then we shall see what appears in the committee's proceedings.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210164220	So far, there are four people who want to ask questions. The first is Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210164225	Thank you. I would like to ask the rapporteur something. Now, if we take a family, like... chooses to stay abroad, far away, for 2 months, and like e.g. Is the rapporteur able to see a challenge in relation to the intervening days when no relief is given on such a stay?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210164253	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210164254	I understand that there are many rapporteurs who would like to find hair in the soup of this resolution rather than find solutions. I think it is important to focus on what this resolution is about. It is about whether you think that families who have a child with disabilities should be able to get help, even while they are on holiday abroad. We have arrangements today. We can look at the BPA scheme, section 96 of the Service Act. We can look at other arrangements in terms of how it works. But rather than finding solutions, I just have to say that there are some rapporteurs today... it is very disappointing... who in this Chamber are trying to find hair in the soup rather than be constructive and say: We want to take a look at that. We can see that there are some challenges to this and we want to help find solutions. It is, of course, the case when you table a motion for a resolution or a legislative proposal that there is a committee procedure so that you can ask all the questions you want and the ministry can answer them.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210164354	Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210164356	Thank you. Now I didn't ask the question to find hair in the soup. I actually asked the question to be realistic about the challenges that may be involved here. And I think it might also have been serious for the Danish People's Party, when it comes to this resolution for the third time, to have tried to investigate some of these things and had tried to counter some of these things, because we have heard what has been said in the Chamber about this matter before. Perhaps it would have been a good idea to have tried to incorporate some of these things and then come up with a resolution which might have been more elucidated. In this context, I would like to know who will pay for the period during which relief is not granted on a stay abroad. Who thinks the Danish People's Party will pay for that period?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210164447	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210164448	Well, who says there's such a period? That's the way it is today when you make appointments. I understand that the rapporteur from the Conservatives would like to find hair in the soup, but it is the case that we in the Danish People's Party would like to find some solutions. We have come up with a concrete solution in terms of how to do it, that is to say, that you can equate the paragraphs, and you can write in the Foreign Order that this paragraph can also be used when you go abroad. So that's what we want. And so it is the case today that different agreements can be made on how and how things are going to work. I can only say that Conservatives are not involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210164527	Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210164530	I mean, I think you have to have the seriousness of such issues as these, that you take up the issues where it is relevant. Now we have just been through a period from 2015 to 2019 when the Danish People's Party was part of the same majority as the Liberal Alliance. I myself have been involved in the first two financial law negotiations in the period that we had in 2015 and the ones we had in 2016 and there you sit with some money that you can spend, and you can also raise more money if you are willing to save some places, and then you decide what that money should be used for. I do not remember that the Danish People's Party there has had the priority that the money should be used for this purpose. The Danish People's Party had all sorts of other wishes, e.g. there should be money for a Christmas children's calendar that Sigrud Barrett made, and many other alternative and very interesting things, exciting things. However, I do not remember that the Danish People's Party has prioritised this in the financial law negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210164629	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210164630	Now it's the case that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen didn't sit at the pool negotiations. Mr. Ole Birk Olesen's colleague, Mrs. Laura Lindahl, and that is why I think that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen is going to call Mrs Laura Lindahl and ask if the Danish People's Party has raised this question for the negotiations, because then Mr. Ole Birk Olesen get the answer that it has the Danish People's Party done.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210164653	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210164655	We have just finished the wagering pool negotiations or what they are now called, which is something else, and I do not remember that the Danish People's Party has mentioned this here as something that needs to be resolved there. However, the motion for a resolution before us is not a motion for a resolution to use money from what used to be the rate pool, it is a motion for a resolution that the money should be found in the Finance Act. The government has to make a bill, and contrary to what Enhedslisten claims, the government has to make that bill and make sure it happens. So if Enhedslisten votes for this motion for a resolution, Enhedslisten instructs the government to start spending money on this next financial year, even though Enhedslisten has not set aside money for it in the Finance Act. So the question is: Why has the Danish People's Party not prioritised this here in a financial law context?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210164740	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210164741	Well, I can repeat myself, sir. Ole Birk Olesen: We have raised it repeatedly, among other things. for negotiations on the rate pool, which is, after all, part of the Finance Act. I think, sir. Ole Birk Olesen is going to call her colleague, Mrs Laura Lindahl, who was sitting at the table and who can testify to the struggle that the Danish People's Party has had in this area in order to get funding from the Finance Act for the previous stake pool. Compared to this bet pool: Jo, who had Dansk Folkeparti wants to join the table, among others. we wanted priority to be given to the elderly area and the disabled area and the children's area.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210164820	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210164823	Thank you. Since this is now the third time we have dealt with this motion for a resolution, I assume that during the intervening period the Danish People's Party's rapporteur may have dug down the matter a little more in order, hopefully, to be able to move forward a little. I have heard that the rapporteur has said that it is not possible to give an answer from the Ministry of Finance in relation to what this would actually cost, but does the rapporteur know something about how many children are really involved and could have this need, because then we could at least go a step further, so if we knew a little about how many children this is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210164905	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210164906	Now the rapporteur knows a great many things, but how many children have a disability and need to bring their family on holiday, I do not know, because I do not have the exact figures. I just have to say that today, on their website, the Muscle Dwindling Foundation writes: "Even if it doesn't cost the municipality extra, help given as relief may only be used in Denmark. Unreasonable discrimination, the family believes, hopes that a new proposal in the Folketing will now change the rules. That is what we are trying to do in the Danish People's Party. We are making a concrete proposal to find a solution. After all, it is disappointing that Mrs Anni Matthiesen does not go constructively into this and says that the Left would like to help find a solution. Instead, you start talking about everything else in relation to working time rules and other things. If it is the case that we in the Folketing want to find a solution, then we will find a solution to it, and then we will also find a solution to the challenges that may exist if there is a desire to resolve it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210165012	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210165013	Then I have to say that I actually think I'm trying to go constructively into this. I'm trying to figure out what the Danish People's Party wants. And then I think it is obvious to ask some of the things that I do not understand in this resolution. One of the things I would really like to know a little more about is that it says that it is during temporary stays abroad that this should apply. Is 2 months temporary? How many times in a year should you be allowed to go abroad and get the government to pay? I just want to ask if there is an upper limit to what the Danish People's Party thinks is temporary.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210165056	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210165058	"Temporary" has been taken according to what the law says. Then I have to say to Mrs Anni Matthiesen that this resolution is essentially about whether you think that families who have a child with disabilities should be able to take their relief on holiday, whether you think that families who have a child with disabilities should have the same opportunities as families who do not have a child with disabilities, i.e. the possibility of going abroad. That's what this is about. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210165134	Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210165137	Thank you. Well, I also think it's a little absurd to hear this debate. I think it's once find hair in the soup. In fact, I think that on this point the DF's rapporteur has shown, both today and normally, a thoroughness in fully understanding this. I just don't see what the big problems are in this. I can see that it is difficult when we cannot be quite clear about the economy, but I can also hear that DF has tried to ask what this will cost. I simply do not understand that a calculation cannot be made. On the other day, we had a debate on mutual dependants, where the Ministry of Finance could fairly quickly calculate what it would cost to have all early retirement pensioners and pensioners exempted from reciprocal retreats. Apparently, it takes several years to find out what it would cost if a bunch of families needed help to take their child with disabilities on vacation. What is the justification given by the Ministry of Finance for not being able to find these figures in any way at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210165235	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210165236	This is a very good question put by the Alternative's rapporteur, because sometimes I get the feeling that when you ask a question about costs to the Ministry of Finance, and there is no, you can say that the greatest willingness to find a solution can sometimes be really, really difficult to find out what it costs. We've seen that before, sir. Jakob Sølvhøj also confirms that when we had a proposal on what is called fair adjustment, the rapporteur may also remember that where we struggled to get the calculations and where the Ministry of Finance wrote that it would have unpredictable high costs to include reasonable adjustment in what we were doing about discrimination against people with disabilities. This is sometimes so marvellous, and I do not have a very good answer as to why the Ministry of Finance responds as they do, but I would like to ask that question again precisely in view of the fact that the municipalities can easily provide a 24-hour hospital or a rest-room.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210165345	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210165346	Well, sometimes I have that strange feeling, too, without it turning into a direct accusation. The last question I would like to ask is, in relation to what we have discussed, with safety, the working environment and so on. I've been listening a lot, and I really think it's solved. Does the rapporteur not think that something similar to a BPA or something similar to a family employer's responsibility can be done in relation to that part of the debate, i.e. a special contract like Enhedslisten has also said where it is special because you are abroad, a good fixed contract that can be respected, so that security also works in Kenya or where it should be?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210165423	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210165424	Indeed, I think that we can, and I have the feeling, as the rapporteur has also said today, that this is simply about finding some hair in the soup to say that we are going to vote against this motion for a resolution. For the essence of this resolution, as I have said earlier today, is whether you think that families who have a child with disabilities should have the same opportunities as families who do not have a child with disabilities, precisely in relation to help. That's basically what it's all about, and if you could stick to that part, that would just be amazing.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210165458	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and the Internal Market. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210165527	The debate is open and the first is the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210165535	Thank you. B 23 suggests that the government should take the initiative to introduce financial compensation for persons who are successful by the Ankestyrelsen in complaints about municipal decisions. The motion for a resolution is therefore about the situation in which a municipality has decided to refuse or reduce the aid under the Service Act and where, at the time of the appeal procedure, the Ankestyrelsen changes the municipality's decision. According to B 23, the financial compensation must be proportionate to the benefit not received by the individual. At the same time, it must be made public which municipalities are required to pay compensation. According to the comments, the compensation proposal has two objectives. Firstly, it must be a patch on the wound in relation to the lack of help that the person has not had during the appeal period. Secondly, it must be a signal to the municipality to be more careful about making the right decisions the first time. After all, this is a motion for a resolution which the Danish People's Party is now putting forward for the fourth time. I agree with the Danish People's Party on the basic premise that people with disabilities must have the necessary help and support in their daily lives. It shouldn't be a fight to get help. The people we are talking about here already have enough to fight with in their lives. However, I do not believe that the solution is to introduce a compensation system. I do not think this is the right way to go to strengthen citizens' legal certainty. It is deeply worrying if some people feel that the municipalities are speculating over long processing times and wrong decisions, because of course this is not the way to deal with the system. Having said that, I do not believe that municipal case officers wake up in the morning and go to work with the ambition to make life difficult for the citizens they are employed to help. And that is why I also disagree with the assumptions behind the proposal: it is a view that the municipalities make decisions that are contrary to the law, consciously and without any matter, in order to save the aid during the appeal period. I believe that the municipalities basically have the will to shoulder their responsibility to comply with the law and carry out proper processing. In this context, it should be borne in mind that the Service Act is a framework law and that the municipalities must make many discretionary decisions on the basis of a specific and individual assessment in each case. Therefore, doubts may also arise as to when a decision falls within the scope of the law. There, the municipalities can certainly get better. However, I do not believe that a compensation scheme will have the effect of making any more correct decisions on the part of the municipalities. On the other hand, I believe that, with a positive approach, we must support the local authorities' procedures so that quality is raised along these lines. From a citizen's point of view, it is important to get the help that one has the right and the need. But this is not achieved by the fact that the Ankestyrelsen, in its decision on the case, provides for financial compensation. After all, what the individual wants is help under the Services Act at the time when the need is present, for example. social pedagogical assistance for participation in a sports conference, as in the example given by the Danish People's Party in the motion for a resolution. A compensation scheme will be administratively cumbersome. The motion for a resolution mentions that the parties voting in favour of the motion for a resolution must discuss the specific compensatory rates. Depending on how finely disguised the specific compensation rates will be, the Ankestyrelsen will have to make a concrete estimation of the lack of good and the time when the citizen has lacked this. In any event, a compensation scheme would be administratively demanding and could increase the duration of the proceedings within the Ankestyrelsen. And how can fair pricing be set, which will be manageable in practice? The services provided under the Services Act, which will be covered by the scheme, are precisely not monetary benefits in which the citizen will actually receive the assistance requested, only retroactively if the Ankestyrelsen agrees with the individual. On the other hand, it will be natural aid, such as: accompanying or helping with practical tasks at home. Is it possible to make such a set of tariffs, which must at the same time be proportionate to the lack of assistance during the appeal period? I have my doubts about that. Instead, the right thing to do is to concentrate our efforts on supporting the municipalities' case management and on getting a reasonable processing time in the Ankestyrelsen. A number of initiatives have already been taken with broad political support. With the 2018-2021 Rate Pool Agreement, a total of 53,4 million was allocated. kr. to an action plan to improve the quality of procedures in the field of disability. The action plan must help to ensure that the aid required under the legislation is more experienced, and this must be noted in the first place. The initiatives in the action plan, which we are, of course, a very broad majority in the Folketing, are currently being rolled out. One of the initiatives that have already been taken is that it has become compulsory for municipalities to deal with the annual Danish map of conversion rates. This, together with the other initiatives of the action plan, will ensure that the responsible politicians in each municipal council focus on and actively take a position on the quality of the proceedings in their municipality. The Ankestyrelsen is also in the process of launching new practice coordinating initiatives and improving some of the existing initiatives in order to strengthen the municipalities' procedures in the first instance. For example, the Ankestyrelsen offers network-based seminars on the practice and dialogue meetings of the Ankestyrelsen with municipalities, and they offer teaching in almost all areas with a focus on concrete and long-term learning programmes, so that municipalities can improve. And then a fast-track system has been introduced for the cases covered by the alert system in the Service Act for particularly intrusive decisions excluding or reducing the aid. It means that in cases where the reduction of aid can be of very significant importance, in most cases citizens will receive the aid without any deterioration during the whole period of the complaint. In these cases, therefore, compensation will not be relevant at all. The 2019 Finance Act provided 35 million. kr. in 2019, EUR 30 million; kr. annual in 2020-2021 and 25 million; kr. in 2022 with the aim of reducing the excessive processing times in the Ankestyrelsen. Then I would just like to point out, for the sake of good order, that the length of proceedings in complaints about home help is not 10 months, as the motion for a resolution says. According to Ankestyrelsen's statistics, it was 2.9 months, and there is still some way from the 2.9 months to the 10 months. Finally, with the 2019-2022 Rate Pool Agreement, 12 million have been set aside. kr. to further initiatives to strengthen legal certainty. They are translated into the creation of a legal certainty unit anchored in the Ankestyrelsen with an associated independent consultative body. The unit is to produce descriptive analyses and studies with a bearing on the legal certainty of citizens. All these measures are good examples of how we should and should work to support the good quality of the case. I would also like to say that we should not settle for it and wait for things to change out there. We will therefore work with the government to strengthen legal certainty and restore confidence between the individual and the system set up in the world to help. One of the greatest challenges for legal certainty more generally is to me to see the very tight budgets in the municipalities, and this is also evident from the observations made in the motion for a resolution. That is why I am also pleased that, with the communal economy agreement that we landed in the autumn, we have taken an important step on the road to restoring the area with a marked increase in welfare • the largest for very many years. That, in other words, an increase in the basic economy, together with a stronger focus on legal certainty, is, I believe, the decisive steps we can take to restore citizens' confidence in the system. The motion for a resolution, as tabled by the Danish People's Party, suggests that there should be no DUT compensation for the municipalities, as they have already been compensated, it says. According to the proposal, it would therefore be a free round, in concrete terms, to introduce financial compensation. I don't think KL and the municipalities will agree with that. I believe that the municipalities basically have a willingness to shoulder their responsibilities. I do not believe in the premise that the municipalities deliberately disregard the law speculates in wrong decisions. I do not agree with that, i.e. the basic premise. I do not think the municipalities agree with this either, and we must therefore expect that compensation will be demanded in the DUT system if we introduce the model of financial compensation that the Danish People's Party is proposing here. So to round off: in the government we do not believe that an economic compensation system is the way forward in terms of strengthening legal certainty in the social area. Instead, we believe that there should be work to strengthen legal certainty, no doubt about it, and that we should do so by supporting and raising the quality of municipal procedures, by ensuring reasonable processing time in the Ankestyrelsen and by ensuring that the municipalities have the basic economy needed to carry out the essential welfare tasks they have, also for citizens in this context. Against this background, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210170456	Thank you. There's a question. Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210170458	The really big question is how much it costs to comply with the legislation today. What does the Minister think about the citizens in whose case a wrong decision has been made and who were actually entitled to some help, but for a long time he has had to do without that help because a wrong decision has been made? After a long time, they may be supported by the Ankestyrelsen, after it has driven back and forth, because it may be that the Ankestyrelsen has referred it to the municipality, and then the municipality has looked at it again, and then it has gone back to the Ankestyrelsen. With regard to the interim period for which a citizen has not been given the assistance he was entitled to under the legislation, what does the Minister think should be done to ensure, if nothing else, that a Band-Aid on the wound in relation to the aid he had to be given or that he might have been deprived of?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210170552	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210170554	I think it is important to keep our tongues straight in our mouths when we discuss this, because there are different elements in our legislation that make matters not the same. In relation to some types of cases, we do have special rules on alerts, which means that as a citizen you will not see that the aid will be reduced for 14 weeks after the decision, and you will have a fasttrack in the Ankestyrelsen, so it can be assessed whether it is a proper decision to reduce the aid and the aid has not been set up yet because there is this warning. Then there is another group of cases where there is suspensive effect, which means that the aid continues unchanged in these cases until the Ankestyrelsen has made its assessment. Then, if I hear correctly, the rapporteur asks why it can then cost something further to have to set up such a compensation scheme. And it has to be said that there will of course be increased administrative tasks for the Ankestyrelsen, if we can even create a fine-meshed enough network for you to hit right in what the compensation should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210170700	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210170702	No, that's not what I said. What I mean is that the municipality has had to provide a service, and they have actually received it through the block subsidy, so they have to deliver it in relation to the legislation. When they haven't delivered that service, you've had a saving. That's my point! With regard to the early warning system, I am well aware of the early warning system, as I myself have fought for it and have tabled motions for resolutions on suspensive effect and have received a number of paragraphs, but of course not all. But then I would like to say that if the Minister does not want to be able to compensate the citizens who are successful, would the Minister agree to extend the early warning system precisely in relation to the suspensive effect, so that we do not lose our help?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210170738	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210170739	I am sorry if I did not understand the question put by the questioner correctly. Then we'll see if I get it right now. I think it is sensible and positive that we have the early warning system that we have now, and I think it is a good thing that we have supplemented it with a fast-track system in the Ankestyrelsen, and I also think it is positive that we have cases that have suspensive effects, but I find it difficult from the platform to understand what it is then for some cases, it would be appropriate to include either the early warning system or the suspension system, which is not now covered, as it is actually very many, including the very intrusive decisions already covered.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210170821	There was a question here. It's sir. Daniel Toft Jakobsen. He will give his rapporteur's speech). Oh, that was Mr. Knox. Daniel Toft Jakobsen, who pointed out that he would replace the Minister on the platform. It is also one way of pointing out that then the Minister has spoken enough and that now the Minister's own rapporteur has to give a speech. It's fine. These are new times in the Folketing. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210170853	Thank you. Apparently, some sensitive buttons are on the panel when they just need to be cut by a piece of paper, but that's fine. The purpose of the motion for a resolution here is to allow compensation to be paid to citizens in cases where the Ankestyrelsen agrees with citizens that the municipality has made a wrong decision under the Services Act. Today it is the case that it is up to the municipality to decide whether, on the basis of legislation and professional considerations, there is a basis for a citizen to receive a particular assistance or service under the Service Act. If the citizen does not agree with the municipality's decision, the citizen can appeal to the Ankestyrelsen, and if the Ankestyrelsen then agrees and finds the municipality's decision wrong, then of course the municipality must comply with the decision of the Ankestyrelsen. The motion for a resolution then proposes that an economic patch should also be applied to the wound to the person who has been successful in the Ankestyrelsen, which, according to the proposer from the Danish People's Party, will also provide an economic incentive for the municipalities to make the right decisions in the first place. It is also proposed that a publication list be drawn up of the municipalities which are required to pay compensation to the citizens. In the Social Democratic Party, we of course believe that citizens should be given the help they are entitled to on the basis of their specific situation in life, that goes without saying, but we do not think that a compensation system is the right way to go. We understand that there are many cases being reversed in the Ankestyrelsen, and we agree that the public's confidence in the authorities may suffer a break when there are so many cases that are being reversed. That is why we are also fully in favour of the municipalities being better at making the right decisions in the first chop, but at the same time we are actually confident that the municipalities have the basic will to shoulder their responsibilities to ensure that the procedure is in accordance with the law. That is why we would rather strengthen the legal certainty of our citizens, for example. to support the municipalities' case management and by working for a more reasonable processing time in the Ankestyrelsen. A number of initiatives have been taken in these areas, as the Minister also mentioned, in connection with the rate-pool agreements of recent years and, most recently, the municipal economy agreement, where prosperity next year will be raised by 2.2 billion. kr. In addition, financial compensation will not give the citizen what the citizen originally needed, namely the aid to which the citizen is entitled under the Services Act. And, as the Minister said, it will probably also lead to more administration and thus perhaps even in reality longer processing times within the Ankestyrelsen to introduce such a compensation scheme as the one proposed here. Social democracy cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210171156	There is a question from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210171159	I would like to hear the rapporteur's view on the situation that as a citizen you have not received the assistance you were entitled to under the Service Act and that during that time you have lacked the help you were entitled to. And then you just need to know, when you have been confirmed that you were entitled to the help, that it is just a pity that you have been standing without help for perhaps 10 months, perhaps up to a year, depending on how long the process has been? Does the rapporteur not think that it is reasonable that, if you as a citizen have been left without the help you are actually entitled to receive, you should be compensated for it? It is a patch on the wound, and I agree with the rapporteur that the best thing would have been if the aid to which you were entitled had been provided initially, but unfortunately that is not always what is happening. Can the rapporteur answer that?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210171300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210171302	At least I'll do my best. Do we just think it's too bad? I mean, we think it is a pity, but we also think it is more than a pity that we think it is deeply questionable when citizens do not get the help they are entitled to. And we think it's deeply critical when you as a citizen have to go through a long and tough struggle to get the help you're entitled to. That is why we think that legal certainty is very, very important, and that is why we think that the municipalities should be better at making the right decision in the first place. However, the way to this goal we believe is to support the municipalities in making better case management and also strengthen their general welfare economy, as we are doing with the latest municipal economy agreement. And this is just a road that we believe in more than spending more money and more bureaucracy on a compensation system.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210171401	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210171403	Well, the money's there. They've got it through the block grant. This means that if citizens have not received the services they were entitled to under the Service Act, they have made savings on the part of the municipality, and then they will be able to pay compensation on the basis of that saving. However, when the rapporteur says that it is scandalous, I understand the rapporteur's criticism when people do not receive the help they are entitled to under the Service Act, but they do not want to compensate citizens for it. Then I would like to ask the rapporteur a question about the budget law: does the rapporteur think that we should look at the budget law in relation to whether it should be amended?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210171442	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210171443	I'm not quite sure I understand that question, I have to admit. But I can then comment on one of the first things that the questioner mentioned, namely the fact that the money is there. In other words, if there is a citizen who has not received an aid, for example, as the municipality has standing, it is not certain that the value of the compensation that the citizen misses is exactly as high as the cost that the municipality would have had by providing the means plus the entire administrative part of the Ankestyrelsen. Well, that's something that comes on top of it. So sometimes it might sound quite simple, that is to say, all the money is already there and that there is no extra cost to it. We believe that there is, and that is one of the reasons why there are other ways we would rather go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210171528	We thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210171535	Thank you, President. With this motion for a resolution, before the end of this parliamentary year, the government is required to put forward the necessary legislative proposals so that compensation can be paid to citizens in cases where the Ankestyrelsen agrees with the citizen that, under the Service Act, the municipality has made some wrong decisions. First of all, I would like to say that we in the Left of course believe that a real fight must be fought to ensure that the right decisions are taken. Having said that, unfortunately we can also look at the number of changes in the Ankestyrelsen that this is not the case. Unfortunately, there are very many places in the municipalities where the wrong decisions are taken at least the decisions will be reversed. Fortunately, therefore, a number of different measures have also been set in motion, which hopefully will make some of them right. I want to say that we in the Left feel the same way about this motion for a resolution that we would like to help try to dig deeper into this and find out if there might be some kind of better arrangement. Having said that, there are also a great many things in the motion for a resolution to which we at least have a lot of questions and which we also think are unresolved: how is this to be done in practice? For example, is it... the number of hours lost in home help and the hourly wage after which it has to be measured? What about the personal compensation that must also be granted? Because it may well be that it can be made up of some kind of hourly wage, but it may also have had some personal negative consequences that you have not had the help for a period, etc. At least there are many things that I do not think we will get an answer to. We hope, of course, that the Danish People's Party will also work on a joint report with this motion for a resolution, so that we can try to work further, because that is precisely what legal certainty means for us in the Left too, and we must do everything we can to strengthen it. However, as the resolution stands here and now, we will not be voting in favour. However, we would very much like to share in trying to work for a possible joint report.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210171804	There are questions from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210171806	Thank you. It is of course a pity that the Left does not support the proposal, but I did not really expect the Left to do so either. However, I would like to hear from the rapporteur of the Left whether the rapporteur does not think that this is reasonable if we have not received the assistance we were entitled to? The rapporteur himself is the rapporteur in this area, and I think that the rapporteur will be asked a number of questions in this area. There is a lack of sense of justice in this when you simply have not been given the appropriation to which you might have been entitled. I simply cannot understand why the rapporteur does not think that a compensation system is a good idea. I would also like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur is willing to look at whether to include a few more paragraphs in what is called the early warning system? Not all paragraphs are inscribed in it, but you could easily write in some more paragraphs. It could be § 83 on home help; is that the way you want to go? And what will it say in a report if it is to the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210171913	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210171914	I would like to start by saying that I do not really think this is the way to go with the early warning system to try to fight a battle. I have great respect for the fact that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party is fighting this battle, and for that matter too, that this is the fourth time that we have dealt with the motion for a resolution. However, I think it would be better to try first to clarify how much this would be if a compensation scheme were to be set up. I do not wish to deny in advance that a compensation scheme is a good idea, but I certainly need to find out how many cases we are talking about. Is it only in this area, or is it for that matter in so many other areas? And what might be the effect of demands on the part of the municipalities if we suddenly imposed compensation on them?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210172006	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210172009	What does Mrs Anni Matthiesen think it should cost to comply with the legislation? In other words, we are talking about legislation that we have today, which must be complied with, and then we are talking about compensation for citizens if that legislation has not been complied with and if we as a citizen have been successful. Well, what's it gonna cost? So, how much does it cost to comply with the law, Mrs Anni Matthiesen?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210172032	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210172033	Yes, you have to comply with the law. We have a community of law, fortunately, here in Denmark, and we must maintain that. And yes, I agree with the rapporteur of the DF that all these changes are not satisfactory, and that is why some things have been set in motion now, which will hopefully reduce the number of changes. But I cannot just give the rapporteur a simple answer as to what it is going to cost, because I think that will actually be very different, depending on what it is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210172102	Then we thank the rapporteur, which costs nothing but courtesy. And then we move on to the next rapporteur. It's sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210172116	Thank you. I would also like to thank the author of the motion for a resolution for presenting it here. I welcome the consideration that is the starting point for the proposal, that is to say the consideration that must be given to the citizen. I have not been on the previous three occasions, this motion for a resolution has been dealt with. What I hear in the debate, and with which I agree, is that such a system would necessarily be cumbersome administratively, in other words, as is proposed here by way of compensation, and that such a system would necessarily be costly financially. I'm not buying the argument that this is supposed to be cost-neutral. I am buying the argument that the scheme will probably be illogical, namely that money is being put against lack of help, which are two not entirely comparable sizes. I also agree with the view that the area is characterised by discretionary decisions, and it is of course such estimates that sometimes and probably also too often are not shared by the Ankestyrelsen, where it is believed that the estimate has been misplaced. I would very much like to take part in further work on good procedures and I would very much like to help strengthen legal certainty in this area. That is why I would very much like to be positive about a report in which we take up the things that can be done. On this basis, I cannot recommend voting in favour of the proposal, but I would like to wait for the work on the report to report our vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210172247	There's a question from Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210172249	Well, I would like to wonder why, because in the past, Radicals have supported a motion for a resolution on financial compensation in favour of complaints. In the last vote on this proposal, 44 voted in favour: DF, Enhedslisten, Alternative, Radical Left and SF. They were the ones who voted in favour of this proposal in the past. So what has changed since then when the Radical Left now doubts whether they will vote in favour of this proposal, which they have supported in the past?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210172325	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210172326	Thank you. But I would like to take a closer look at this in the work on a report. As I said, I have some doubts when I hear this debate for the first time, not least about the considerations of administration and the economy and the logic of it. So I need to work a little more closely into it, but of course I would very much like to take far-reaching account of being on the side of the citizen in these decisions.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210172346	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210172348	But I am still a little out of comprehension about what has changed since the votes here in the last session, when we just had this resolution. The Radical Left wanted to support this proposal and also thought that the compensation scheme was a very good idea and they voted in favour of it in the Parliamentary Assembly. Now we have retabled it because we did not quite achieve a majority but lacked some mandates in relation to it, and now the Radical Left says that they no longer support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210172421	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210172423	Thank you. I have said that I will not explain our vote until we have been through the attempt to make a report, so it should not be taken as if I should have said that we are voting against it. I have said that I cannot yet tell you that we are voting in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210172435	We thank the rapporteur. The next in the series of rapporteurs is Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210172448	Thank you. This resolution is more complicated than that and therefore requires a slightly more nuanced response. The SF's rapporteur last time, we dealt with the same proposal in this Chamber, also tried to nuance it. Nevertheless, as last time, I would like to commend the DF for raising the matter and emphasise that the most important thing for citizens is not to get money, but to get the offer that they initially sought and that they need the end. This requires not pressure on the municipalities on the wallet, as has been done over time, so some, but not all, municipalities are tempted to make a worse offer, which is becoming more expensive in the long term because the citizen is becoming less self-reliant. Of course, we also have a responsibility here at Christiansborg for the squeezed economy. We have been working on this with the current government, but I hope that we can also take some of the responsibility in the future when we talk about some of these solutions and about what is going on in the municipalities. Our focus in this Parliament often comes to be about financial compensation, and then you easily end up in the thinking that the money should just follow the citizens. We in the SF do not necessarily believe that they should. The citizen must have the right offer and now I repeat myself. That is what we need to focus on. I would also very much like to discuss this further in committee and perhaps also try, in cooperation with the other parties, to unfold in a report by the Social and Home Affairs Committee. At the same time, however, I would like to stress that there may of course be situations where compensation can make sense. We have seen examples that people themselves have been responsible for benefits to which they were entitled. There is the example of the swim girl mentioned in the comments on the motion for a resolution, who has had the cost of escorts, aids, etc. as a result of the wrong decision of the municipality of Lolland. And then, of course, she should be compensated. However, as far as possible we should not use economic sanctions against the municipalities. Here confidence, sufficient economy and good guidance can often be better solutions. The SF is today, with the above reservations, in favour of the proposal. The final position awaits the committee reading, where we expect to learn more about this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210172721	There are questions from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210172724	Thank you. It is true that the Danish People's Party has made this proposal at some times and also adjusted it with some comments in relation to what has come up. However, the last time we discussed this draft parliamentary resolution on financial compensation, the SF voted in favour of the proposal. I just have a little difficulty understanding the rapporteur. So, does this mean that the rapporteur does not think that we can vote in favour of this resolution, even though it contains the same in relation to financial compensation for citizens who have been mistreated, can one say, in the social system?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210172804	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210172806	The speech I have just read out is very much like what was said last time we dealt with this matter. And as I concluded by saying, we are positive and also in favour of the proposal today, but we are awaiting the committee's consideration because there are several different parameters in this matter which need to be resolved. For what is also important in this matter is, in fact, that the citizens get the efforts they need. And in the SF there we just think that there are some other things we should have looked at too, so that we can secure it, so that efforts should not be replaced by economics, because we do not really think that benefits the citizen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210172843	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210172846	I agree that there are a great many things we need to look at in the whole area of disability. But what exactly does the SF think we should have looked at? After all, the SF's rapporteur says that the economy is about citizens getting the right support and help in the first place, and I fully agree with that, but how do we ensure that we get the right support and help in the first place, to which we are entitled? Does the rapporteur not think that if you do not get what you were actually entitled to what you were entitled to in relation to the Service Act; what you needed is that, if you are successful in the end, you should be entitled to compensation as a Band-Aid on the wound?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210172925	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210172928	Yes, we believe that, to the extent that the citizen himself has suffered an economic loss in relation to the aid he has applied for and was entitled to, but not granted to them. It's about the financial loss they were facing. The second part is, of course, about a completely different matter, which would be easy to resolve with some kind of financial penalty, i.e. to create such penal structures, but we just don't think that's the solution. What we want, in fact, is much more that we deal with the things that are problematic when we talk about people who get the right bets out there. And there we are in something much more complex than just being able to give crowns and ear-amounts when they have been improperly treated out in the municipality.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210173010	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more questions. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210173017	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say that there are simply an awful lot of errors in the local authorities' handling of social matters. When you look at the last statement I think it's from March this year you can see that the Ankestyrelsen surrounded one third of all social complaints. If you go in and look separately at the handicap area, it was just about half of all children's disabilities, and on the adult disability area it was just on the bottom of a third. But so, across the field, the Ankestyrelsen overrides between one third and half of the cases that come in in the social field. In my opinion, this shows that something is wrong. It has to be said that it is deeply unfair to the citizens and their families who are experiencing a defective or erroneous procedure, and I think it is evidence that there is simply a problem of legal certainty in this area. It can, of course, have very major consequences for citizens if they do not receive the support that they are entitled to under the law. That is why I believe that there should be a broad consensus in the Assembly that it is an unfair legal situation that the citizens concerned, who do not receive the support they are entitled to, have no claim whatsoever to compensation, while the municipalities, which have faulty or defective procedures, can, on the other hand, score the money. Because you can say that they are either successful on the Ankestyrelsen, and then all the money is saved. It's okay, so you've complied with the law or you're not successful, and then you've saved money, because then you've saved money for the benefit for the entire period of the proceedings. The Minister said that it is probably not the case that all the country's municipal social affairs officers rise every morning motivated by new misdecisions. I agree with that. This is certainly not the case, and when you look over the Danish map, which the Ministry of Social Affairs has made, you can see that there are very large differences. However, this does not alter the fact that the figures indicate that an exceptionally border-seeking procedure is being carried out in the municipalities. It simply cannot be the case that there are so many errors if no guidelines have been laid down for the case-law, which means that the individual case-handling agents are certainly very tight on making decisions for the benefit of the citizens. I think it is obvious that an opportunity should be introduced to provide financial compensation, and I think it is worth bearing in mind that it is not just a question of ensuring justice and goodness for those citizens who are actually complaining. However, when we look at the whole social area, and not least in the area of disability, we also have to do with citizens who find it very difficult to understand their own situation and who find it difficult to understand how to complain. That is why we know, or I am convinced, if anyone should ask, from where I have my knowledge that there is a very large number of dark people, that there are very many citizens who, although they do not get the right decision from the municipal case officer, are unable or unable to understand their ability to make a complaint. The short of the long one: I really had a hope that there had been a change in this matter after the change of government. I can certainly welcome the fact that we have agreed between four parties that we should have looked at the problems of lack of legal certainty in this area. So I certainly have the confidence that it will look at the four parties together. But I would also like to say that I think we could give it a good start by supporting this proposal, so that we actually supported the Danish People's Party's proposal here. I would say that on the part of the Enhedslisten we can support this proposal. In this case, too, I have heard the rapporteurs and can see that the 13 mandates of the Enhedslisten will probably not bring the proposal to the end. On the other hand, I would like to say here that I am delighted that it has been mentioned from a number of quarters that it also offends the legal sense of other rapporteurs that compensation cannot be granted when the law is not complied with. So I hope that in a report we can arrive at something that points towards strengthening legal certainty in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210173515	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210173518	This is then one of the few occasions where the Liberal Alliance and the Enhedslist agree. However, it opens up the interesting thing that Enhedslisten will be voting for a proposal that will undoubtedly cost some money by 2020 for the state, because the municipalities must be compensated for this. But the Enhedslisten hasn't dropped that money in the Finance Act that Enhedslisten makes with the government. How do you solve that problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210173542	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210173543	After all, with all the proposals supported by the Enhedslisten and by the way, we ourselves believe that there should be funding. So it is clear that, to the extent that there is a cost to such a proposal, there must of course be funding. However, I would also like to say that in the proposal that lies here, and that is what we are discussing here, it is pointed out that there will be no cost. What exactly is the cost to the municipalities of complying with the legislation they are set to administer? Nowadays, the municipalities are earning a lot of money not to comply with the law. Then it can be said that if the legislation is actually complied with, perhaps a little less money will be made. However, as explained in the comments on the motion for a resolution, it is impossible for municipalities to be dut-compensated in this case. So that's the problem, sir. Ole Birk Olesen doesn't exist in this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210173638	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210173640	I think it does. But I would like to know whether we have come to a new situation in which the government has entered into a financial agreement with some parties, without these parties undertaking not to tear away the curtain under the Finance Act by voting in favour of spending proposals in the Parliamentary Chamber bypassing the government? Is it not the case that as a Finance Act party you still take responsibility for next year's Finance Act and therefore cannot vote for things that cost money outside of the Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210173708	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210173710	Of course, we take responsibility for it, otherwise we would not conclude a financial agreement, but that does not prevent other proposals being adopted during a parliamentary year. However, it is clear that the proposals in question must, of course, be financed so that they do not affect the financial agreement we have made with the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210173727	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210173730	I have to say that I was a little tempted to try to follow up on the answer given by the Enhedslisten's rapporteur here. In any case, it seems a little different than it has been in recent years. Normally you agree to a financial agreement and, like each other, you shake hands with each other that is what you stand on. I just have to understand it correctly: then that means that you have another agreement here and that, for example, you have another agreement here. Is it true that Enhedslisten is happy to back everything in the world that costs money but is not funded?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210173808	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210173810	The unitary list is, of course, in the Financial Law Agreement that has been concluded. This does not prevent us from discussing, over the year here in the Parliamentary Assembly, expenditure which must be incurred and which is beyond the financial law agreement. However, it is clear that we obviously have an obligation to discuss with the government and with the parties we have agreed on how this funding is to take place.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210173833	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210173835	In other words, when the Enhedslisten backs this motion for a resolution, is it also something that has been discussed with the other financial parties before backing it? Or how is that supposed to be?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210173851	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210173853	Now it is the case that what emerges from this proposal will be read down in the comments on the proposal is that there is no extra cost to it here. I agree that we can have that discussion, and I am convinced that KL will always seek a good opportunity to be dut-compensated, but I fully agree with the proposers that the fact that the municipalities must comply with the country's legislation cannot impose additional costs on them.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210173923	Then we thank the rapporteur and move forward, and that is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, the Conservatives, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210173931	Thank you. The motion for a resolution here proposes the introduction of financial compensation for citizens who are supported by the Ankestyrelsen in complaints about municipal decisions. According to the motion for a resolution, financial compensation must be proportionate to the benefit which the citizen has not received while the complaint was being dealt with. As I read in the motion for a resolution, the financial compensation must be a plaster on the wound in relation to the aid which the citizen has thus not had access to during the period of complaint. At the same time, the scheme must be a signal to the municipalities and provide an economic incentive to be more careful about making the right decisions in the first place. First of all, it is completely indisputable that the citizens should have the right help and support that they need under the law, and of course they should have this in the first place when the municipalities decide on their case. It should not be necessary to go to the Ankestyrelsen. However, I do not believe that a compensation system is the right solution to achieve a strengthening of citizens' legal certainty, which I understand is being proposed in the resolution here. Nor do I believe, as the motion for a resolution also calls for, that the municipalities make decisions that are contrary to the law deliberately in order to save the aid during the appeal period and that there is a need to remove the financial incentive for such behaviour. Basically, I believe that the municipalities have the will to shoulder their responsibility for the compliance of the proceedings with the law, and I do not believe that a compensation scheme will have the effect of making any more correct decisions. From a citizen's point of view, it is important to get the help that one has the right and the need. Financial compensation will not give it to the citizen. I also believe that a financial compensation system will be administratively cumbersome, because how should one and who should be able to value the loss or the but, which can be said to result in a wrong decision? And what are the rates to be set for this? The benefits that will be covered by the scheme are not monetary benefits, where it is an amount that can only be granted retroactively. It is a considerable difficulty to fix it, and it will not give the citizen the assistance he wants at the right time and place. We therefore believe that this is not the right way to go in terms of strengthening citizens' legal certainty. Instead, we believe that the effort should be concentrated on supporting the municipalities' case management and a reasonable processing time in the Ankestyrelsen. Conservatives cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210174241	There is a question from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210174248	I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur thinks it is reasonable for our health system to be mistreated today to receive compensation. Didn't I have more time? Oh, okay. I would like to hear the rapporteur's position on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210174327	Thank you. It was not the President who interrupted and turned off the microphone, although it could be tempting sometimes.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210174335	As I understand the motion for a resolution, this is about a compensation mechanism in relation, for example, to. home help or personal care or social pedagogy support, where you may not have received what you think you are entitled to and where you will then have to pay a financial compensation for it. I find that very difficult to translate, because how is this to be done? How is that loss to be valued? I think that's hard. I also think a little bit has been suggested in the motion for a resolution to believe that the municipalities are consciously thinking about making wrong decisions, and I simply do not believe in that. I simply do not believe that when employees come into the city hall in the morning, they sit down and consciously make the wrong decisions. I therefore find it very difficult to follow fully how such a system could be put into practice in order to translate this loss in relation, for example, to. home help or personal care or social pedagogy support.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210174451	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210174455	I don't think that's hard at all. In other words, I think we should ask ourselves whether we think it is reasonable that when we are mistreated in the social system and we do not get the help we are entitled to under the service law, we should agree that we have actually lacked the help we were entitled to receive compensation for the good or the help we have not received while the complaint has been filed. I think we should ask ourselves that. Then I just have to say that Conservatives say that they do not think so. They do not believe that, even if we have been mistreated in the social system, in order to increase legal certainty for citizens, we must be compensated for the good or the help we have had to suffer from.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210174543	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210174545	I clearly believe that it is important for us to strengthen the legal certainty of our citizens. That was among other things. also because the former government placed money on the Finance Act for it, and we have also allocated money to it in wage-pool agreements in the past, precisely in order to take part in some of the proceedings of the Ankestyrelsen and to ensure the legal certainty of citizens. For there should be no doubt that citizens must, of course, have the help and support to which they are entitled. There is no doubt about that at all; that, of course, must be the case. That is why, of course, we also set aside money to strengthen it in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210174624	Then we thank the rapporteur and move on to Mr Beazley's report. Torsten Gejl, the alternative, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210174635	Thank you very much. In the alternative, we do not always agree with DF's position to sanction municipalities when they fail to comply with our legislation. In fact, we are ready to go very far when it comes to ensuring that municipal autonomy itself makes it work. We know that we have simply saved so much in the municipalities that it is a daily challenge to make everything run around. But when it comes to something similar to box thinking, our patience simply ceases. When a municipality earns from reducing a benefit to a citizen and it later turns out that the decision is wrong, the citizen must be compensated. I don't want the municipalities to make any profit making mistakes. Then you have to make a change from kind to cash, and it can't be that difficult to convert the aid into money. There are budgets and accounts for everything. There may then be some situations where you have to solve it via a rate and something like that. So, of course, a citizen must be compensated for an unjustified loss. The fact that it will then also have a positive effect and maybe make the municipality a little more cautious when it comes to cutting the benefits of the citizens is excellent. That is why the alternative to this proposal is in line.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210174803	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions. Then it is Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210174812	First of all, thank you to the Danish People's Party for also raising this very important debate. I have been contacted by a great many citizens: parents, families who have experienced a system that has failed; parents of disabled children, relatives of disabled adults who have seen their case mistreated in a municipality. Then you have appealed, you have been through a very, very long process in a system that is really, really time-consuming and really, really demanding in general for the whole family, and then you have been successful, and even if you have been successful in the Ankestyrelsen, there has not really been anything to do, and I think that is in principle wrong. For it is clear that if a wrong decision is taken, the wrong decision must of course also be compensated for. We have it in practically every other area of the system. For example: In other words, within the health system, which was mentioned earlier, it is possible to obtain compensation if a wrong decision is taken if a wrong decision is made. And, of course, this must also be the case in the area of disability. I come from a municipality myself, where a lot of parents • several of you probably also know about the movement • One million votes • have just had the resources to go through a very, very long process to ensure that their disabled relatives, children etc. got the help they needed. And I fully agree with the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, who said earlier that there are probably some great dark figures, because there are also some families who simply do not have the resources to complain about the decision that has been taken. At the same time, therefore, we have a disability legislation in which we actually see that there are a great many who sit between two chairs at the age of 18. That's just one of the things this resolution addresses. I think that this is a good resolution and, of course, it is very natural that, in the area of disability, you should also have the opportunity to receive compensation if a wrong decision has been taken in your case. So I would like to look forward to the further consideration of this and hopefully we will find a solution, but New Citizens can certainly support this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210175055	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210175101	Thank you. Thank you, too, to the Danish People's Party for the motion for a resolution. We think this is a good motion for a resolution. We think it argues for itself. We think it is obvious that it should be the case that if, according to a law, you have the right to something and the authorities then make a wrong decision, it should not be impact-free for the authorities and, in this case, the municipality. If you win a case in the Ankestyrelsen over your municipality and the Ankestyrelsen state that you were entitled to a certain service from the municipality for a period of time, we think it is natural that you should receive compensation afterwards, which of course should preferably be about what you were entitled to during that period. We fully agree that most people do not go to work for the purpose of cheating other people or making mistakes, but we do not like systems where mistakes are ineffective and we do not like systems where, on the contrary, those who make mistakes actually benefit from it. In the long term, we believe that this will lead to more misdecisions. The incentives must be in order, including in the social field, for the municipalities, and that is why we support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210175234	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210175249	Thank you. At the moment, a case is being brought before the court... the swimming girl's case is being called. The Justitia and the Lawyers' Association, in cooperation with the lawyer Mads Pramming, have chosen to go to court with a fundamental case of a girl with a disability who has wrongly been deprived of her accompaniment for swimming at the age of 18. The case has already been for the city court, but now it is taking a step further to the right to land. The case relates to the fact that the municipality had wrongly deprived her of her accompaniment scheme for swimming when she was 18 years old. The family had been successful on several occasions in their complaints to the Ankestyrelsen, but only after prolonged tuggggery did the girl finally succeed in having her companionship reinstated. However, the incorrect decision of the municipality in the case meant that for a very long period the girl could not come to swimming and that the family had to spend holidays and days off to help. Should you be able to obtain financial compensation if the municipality has wrongly refused or deprived a citizen of non-financial assistance such as: Home help, escort scheme or similar and the Ankestyrelsen subsequently redeploys the municipality's decision? Yeah. In this case, however, the city court said no, which means that it has no economic consequences for the municipalities when they disregard their regulatory obligations. According to Justitia and the Lawyer Society, the current legal situation is problematic. Birgitte Arent Eiriksson, Deputy Director of Justitia, says, and I quote: "It is absolutely crucial that citizens can rely on local authorities to comply with the rules. Therefore, it is also very questionable when we see cases such as the swim-girl case, where a municipality has grossly violated its obligations under the Service Act. If we are to strengthen the legal certainty of citizens, we need a legal situation in which it is not financially profitable for municipalities to make very border-seeking or even wrong decisions. Karen Wung Sung, a member of the Lawyer's Council, says: "The Swimming Girl case is important because it can in principle have an impact on many citizens who are in trouble in municipalities who do not meet their obligations to citizens. With the case, we will have established the state of legal certainty and decided whether the municipality should not compensate citizens who have experienced an unjustified loss of welfare for a long time. We do not think that municipalities should be able to get away with this without providing some sort of compensation. ▪ The judgment may have a major impact on many other citizens in similar situations, as the decision may set a precedent for future cases. The problem has been debated in the Parliamentary Assembly several times, when the Danish People's Party has made proposals, but there has not yet been a political majority to change the legal situation. That is why the response of the Court of Justice to the matter will also be crucial. As it is today, citizens who have been wrongly refused or deprived of a service by the municipality, which cannot be made up in crowns and ears, cannot receive compensation from the municipality. At the same time, the municipalities have had a saving on the service during the period in which the Ankestyrelsen deals with a complaint. As there are examples that the complaint period is dragging on for several years due to the circumstances of the municipalities, the municipalities can therefore achieve significant savings during that period, while the citizen in the same period is experiencing a large loss of welfare. In the Danish People's Party we believe that citizens who are successful in a complaint against the municipality can be granted compensation. We have also made proposals in the past to strengthen legal certainty about suspensive effect, and there we obtained a majority in relation to section 3a of the Service Act, which retains its help for 14 weeks until the case has been dealt with by the Ankestyrelsen. In this context, as has already been mentioned, I would also like to mention the fast track system, precisely so that we do not suddenly find ourselves without help. Unfortunately, however, the problem has not been resolved, for example. Alas-patients have not been given proper help or help hours to make everyday life work. After all, the municipalities make decisions every day under the Social Services Act on matters relating to the elderly, vulnerable citizens, people with disabilities, and this may be precisely in matters relating to home help, personal care and the like. In a number of cases, the decision means that the citizen, for example: It may also be that home help has been granted, where the municipality then decides to reduce home help. There may also be examples of not having received the aid at all to which one was entitled. So the proposal, in its simplicity, is that the government should make a bill or make the necessary administrative changes, including regulations, so that compensation or compensation can be paid to citizens who are successful in the Ankestyrelsen. The municipality must decide on the basis of a concrete and individual assessment of the citizen's situation on the basis of existing legislation, and it is true that we have debated today that we have adopted the Danish map in cooperation, and the last statements, to which the Enhedslisten also refers, are far too high in relation to the changes that exist. So far too many of these cases are being reversed. But then there is the second part in relation to the Danish map, and there I have noticed that there is something about the economy and the agreement on it, and there I do not think that the Minister can simply change anything in relation to the Danish map, which has just been mentioned, because I think there is certainly an agreement in that area. There have also been examples that a municipality has set a ceiling on relief in relation to noise, where no individual assessment has been made. We also see today that what is called quality standards often becomes the standard in a municipality, compared to not making an individual assessment. So many of these cases are at odds with the legislation, and it is not only in the cases of children and disabilities, because we have also seen it in other areas, in sickness benefits and other cases. We believe that a compensation scheme can be an incentive for municipalities to make the right decision in the first place. Of course, it should not replace compensation or anything else. Every time this has been debated here, including in News or on another television broadcast, I have, funny enough, heard a lot of politicians from in here say that sanctions must be imposed when you do not comply with the law, but here you provide compensation for those citizens who have been let down in relation to the service to which they were entitled. I think it is quite reasonable that you as a citizen should receive compensation, and this also applies to the sense of justice. That is why I think it is very good that both the Enhedslisten, the Alternative, the New Civil and perhaps Radical Left and the Liberal Alliance are entirely behind the resolution. These are not quite 90 mandates, but I would certainly like to thank the rapporteurs who support it. Then I look forward personally to seeing how this case ends, and I think that if it ends up to the benefit of the citizen, we will certainly have to react and possibly make some changes here too from a political point of view. Either way, I think we should make some changes that benefit citizens and that strengthen citizens' legal certainty in relation to getting that help. Then I agree with the debate that the best thing would be for you to have the aid you were entitled to in the first place, but the reality is different, and that is why I think it is important to have a compensation system, because in all other areas you cannot simply break the law or circumvent the law without any consequences. I would just like to say that it is without consequences and without cost if we do so in relation to the Services Act, and I do not think that is fair for citizens' legal certainty. Thank you for the floor and thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210180131	Then I would like to thank the rapporteur for the authors. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and the Internal Market. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210180155	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 12 December 2019. But before we get started, we need to put the rapporteurs in place in the front rows. It's in full swing. We'll just wait a few minutes, and I think it's all in place. With a little help, you also find out where to sit. In practical terms, for information to the public, I can say that the parliamentary officers have put up a sign showing which seats the rapporteurs of the various parties should sit. So it's supposed to be pretty easy to find out. Then you have to have logged off in the space where you sat and logged into the new space, so you can also say something from the microphone you are now sitting at. Even the minister must have logged off in his old place and move almost to the PM's place, but not quite. The minister also has the opportunity to get help. It's starting to help, and I think that all those who are here are about to be in place. Or is anyone missing yet? I guess we're all in place. Then I shall begin by giving the floor to the rapporteur of the questioners, Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party, to explain the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210180436	Thank you. Question No. F 15, to which the Danish People's Party has chosen to call, says: Will the Minister explain whether the municipalities comply with the intentions and legislation of the Children's Reform and what will the Minister do to municipalities that do not comply with the reform? The reason for this is that we in the Danish People's Party are deeply concerned about the vulnerable children, the parents, the foster families, yes, the whole housing area. In the Danish People's Party, we believe that there are major challenges in this area. There is a lack of support for families, for children, for the network, for foster families; a lack of prevention, a lack of legal certainty and, above all, a lack of quality assurance in cases. And as long as there is no improvement in this area, we call every year the minister in office in this area for a question debate to draw attention to the seriousness of the situation and to appeal to increased attention and action in this area. In the Danish People's Party we want quality assurance in the cases. We want prevention efforts and family care. We want to see quality in the children's interviews, in the section 50 studies, in the parental performance studies, and that those concerned should know and be informed of their rights. The other day it came out on the Ankestyrelsen's website that in recent years the Ankestyrelsen has abolished almost half of the decision-making decisions subsequently approved by the Children and Young People's Committee and which have been complained about to the Ankestyrelsen. A large part of the repealed decisions concern the placement of newborn children without consent. In these cases, either before the parents leave the hospital or after birth, the parents have been in a 24 - hour hospital with the newborn. This is in particular the condition that there must be an immediate need on the part of the child in order to make a preliminary decision which the Ankestyrelsen has assessed has not been met. It is in itself extremely worrying for the families affected that the conditions have not been met. And there's a lot of stuff like that in this area. And that is why we have chosen to call the Minister to the debate precisely to focus on it, and also because we have just put forward proposals for studies in this area in the past. So I look forward to today's debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210180705	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur... nonsense, it is the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior. I was just a novice too far ahead. But first, of course, we need to hear the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior about the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210180721	Thank you for that, and yes, we all need to find our seats. It's amazing, because I don't know how many query debates you have to attend until you've fully figured out where to sit and how to log in and out. But now everyone's in place, I see. I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for its statement on a subject which concerns me and also the government incredibly much. And as the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party just explained, I have been asked to explain whether the municipalities are complying with the intentions and legislation of the Children's Reform and what I am going to do with municipalities that do not comply with the reform. I am very pleased that we will have the opportunity to discuss the challenges that I believe there are when it comes to the efforts of vulnerable children and young people, and especially those that need a new home where there is care and security. After all, this is a debate which we have started in this Chamber back in November when we discussed motion for a resolution B 8. Because there is certainly room for improvement, and I will come back to that. Overall, I believe that Christiansborg has jointly and over the last 10 years set in motion a number of good initiatives which should boost efforts for vulnerable children and young people. The 2010 child's reform, which aimed that the child's best should always be at the heart of the effort, is an important one of them. With the child's reform, the focus on vulnerable children's rights was strengthened. It was made clear in the legislation that exposed children have the right to be heard, the right to be involved, just as children's right to association with family and networks should prevail over parents' desires for association and contact. The ambitions, I think, are just right. But have the political intentions also come true? I don't think so. We may have come some way, but when only one in four people is involved in their own affairs, or there is no follow-up to whether aid to vulnerable children and young people actually works, well, in short, that is not good enough. Last week I was at Marienborg with the Prime Minister to meet some of the children and young people who have tried the system on their own, so to speak. Cool and happy kids with smiles in their eyes, that is, the eyes that have seen and experienced things that are not for children. Many of the children shared their stories with the Prime Minister and myself. One of the girls told me that she should have association with her biological mother, even if she didn't want to. It tells me that as a society we have failed to put children and their rights first. With the child's reform, early efforts were also highlighted. The obligation to notify was clarified so that it became clear when to inform and, as part of preventive and early action, professionals were given access to exchange more information about a particular child. But again the question is whether the political intentions have also become reality. Here I would like to quote six coolly placed young people, whom I also met at Marienborg, who had a chronicle in Politiken on 23 November, where they gave us politicians ten good advice on what we can do better for children placed like themselves. One of them is that we have to put in the past and now I quote from the chandelier: "We have often thought, why didn't anyone do anything before?" Many of us have been placed when we were about 10-11 years old. One of us has seen a case worker come to her house in the morning at 8:00, where she was going to school and her mother was barcardi. Yet nothing happened. Why wait till things go wrong? ▪ They ask that in the crown, which I personally think is the most important chronicle we have seen this year. After all, this is a very good question they are asking here and which I also think very well shows that we are not in the end when it comes to the intention to intervene early. One final point from the child's reform, which I would like to mention here, is the focus of the reform on better preparation of vulnerable young people for an independent adult life. There are new provisions for a plan of action to ensure targeted action from the 16th year onwards, as well as extended support opportunities after the 18th year for previously placed young people. So have the political intentions come true here? I don't think we can say that. Let me just mention three boring statistics. Half the homeless kids have been planted. Three out of four former students do not have an upper secondary education six years after leaving primary school. And every six previously placed are on early retirement at the age of 30. The figures tell me that, as a society, we will release the young people placed too soon before they are properly on their way into and established in what is to become their adult life. An obvious question is whether the legislation is good enough in the area of placement or whether the problems are simply due to non-compliance with the legislation. Here we see that, unfortunately, there are municipalities which continue to have difficulties in complying with the rules, and in these cases the good intentions of the legislation are not worth much more than the paper on which they are written. Most recently, the latest figures from the children's case barometer have shown many errors in the case. This is extremely worrying, because it is another failure of vulnerable children and young people, among others. not followed up well enough on whether they get the help they need. This is, of course, totally unacceptable, because the municipalities must comply with the legislation, and this also applies, of course, to the changes introduced by the child's reform. Despite many major and important initiatives, which we have often carried together across the middle here in the Danish Parliament, it has not yet been possible to adequately increase efforts for vulnerable children and young people. In short, we are not in the finish line. We have recently taken a first step, together in the implementation of the social reserve for 2020, towards becoming more aware of why things are going the way they are doing. That is why I am very much looking forward to the study on the local authorities' placement cases, which we have agreed together. I am pleased that the parties to the agreement agreed to highlight the culpability of the rules and municipal practices in this area initiated by the government and the KL, because it should not be the rules that stand in the way of the best possible efforts for children and young people. I think we are all prepared to take that responsibility on board here. However, if we are really to succeed in putting the child first in the effort, we need to take a more fundamental approach and look broadly at the efforts of vulnerable children and young people. It is not enough, of course, that we from Christiansborg write fine paragraphs about the children's right to a safe and good childhood, or that we make fine toasts about the child always having to be put first. It's not enough that it looks good on paper. In practice, this must also be the guiding principle of the effort. And here we still have too much to do before we can say that the crucial principle is always the right effort for the child rather than the least intrusive effort for the parents, as when there are years of betting in the family and yet it ends up with a placement without consent. It tells me that in many and probably too many cases biological parents are given more chances than what is for the child's good. The child's right must be the red thread for all parts of the bet. This applies in relation to the child's right to get the right work done early and based on the child's need for support and the child's right to a safe and stable childhood of caring and present adults and, above all, the child's right to be heard and involved in decisions relating to the child himself. But if we are to succeed, we as a society must do better in a number of areas. I do not think we are going to avoid looking at whether the legislation is good enough everywhere. First, the municipalities must make the right efforts much earlier. If parents cannot take proper care of their children, they should no longer have that responsibility. Here society must take over so that vulnerable children get the care and closeness of stable adults that all children deserve. That is why I am concerned when most placements without consent today are done among large children, while only very few are placed as young people. I do not believe that this is due to the fact that the problems arise only when the child becomes a teenager. I think this is because it is there first that we can no longer close our eyes to it. Those children should have had the right help much earlier. And for some, a place outside the home will at an earlier stage be the right help so that the problems do not grow so large that the child is at risk of being harmed for life. Secondly, much greater security and stability must be created in the placement. When a municipality chooses to place a child, society takes on a parental task. This means, among other things, that children placed in care should be able to count on their new home not only being temporary. Children and young people brought in should not live with an uncertainty that they should suddenly move to a new foster home and start again or move home to the biological parents, even if they would rather stay in their foster family. In addition, places should provide a safe environment for good children's life. The children must be met by the care that belongs in a safe and good home. There must be adults who can give them a loving push in their backs and help them, just as other children and young people experience that their parents do. And if they need special support, adults must have the right professional skills. However, the quality of 24-hour institutions and places of residence is far too fluctuating. The most recent welfare survey shows, for example, that children and young people placed at the 24-hour institutions and places of residence thrive significantly worse than children placed in foster families and that they feel less at home at their location. In the best of all worlds, we did not have to place children at all, because all children were born with good and loving parents who were in charge of the parental assignment. In the second best of all worlds, all children placed a good and loving foster family. I know that, in the real world, not all children can thrive in a foster family, for example. because the placement has taken place too late and there has been far too much damage in the form of trauma and psychological diagnoses, so the child needs more specialised help than what a foster family can provide. But I basically believe that it is important for children to grow up and be part of the community, as it is to be a family, to have a sense of belonging to others, to know where one belongs, and to be safe enough to take root. The foster families are lifting an invaluable task. They give vulnerable children and young people the opportunity for a safe upbringing and a future they had not otherwise had. The task and responsibility of caring for a foster child must not be left alone. Therefore, the foster families must also have proper conditions. We must ensure that they receive support, sparring and training so that they are properly dressed for the great task they have taken on. We also need to ensure that young people placed in care move well forward in adult life when the placement is over. I believe that the parental task of society for children placed in care involves a responsibility which does not automatically end when the child reaches the age of 18 but enters adulthood, because previously placed young people are mostly poor in relationships, among other things. because of many shifts, and they too often have a weak network, which means that they will often be very alone in the difficult transition to adult life. Here, as a society, we have failed when half of the homeless young people are previously placed. Here we need to become better at listening to what the previously placed young people themselves tell them they were missing in the transition to adulthood, because they are the experts in their own lives. Finally, efforts for the most vulnerable children and young people must not be driven by a goal of making as much money as possible, but by helping children as much as possible. The profits of the placement sites must be spent on the children. That is why we also need to come all the way around problems with some placement sites being able to withdraw profits from the institution. Finally, I would like to emphasise that I believe that we owe it to the vulnerable children and young people to address the problems in a fundamental way. Of course, we must involve those who know the challenges in practice, not least the children and young people who have been placed in the care of themselves. We clearly did not do it well enough, all the good intentions despite when we did the child's reform, even though the focus was the right one, namely a stronger focus on the child. I and the government will continue to work on this, so that the child's needs and the child's right to a good and safe childhood always become the guiding principle of effort. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210181926	Thank you, Minister. A brief comment from the rapporteurs is now available, and the first to ask for the floor is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210181935	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for the speech. I just need to ask a clear question, because in the Danish People's Party it is not about placing more or less. It is about the right children being placed on a well-documented and enlightened basis. However, as I hear the Minister in the rapporteur's speech, it sounds as if it is the government's concern that there should only be more placements for prevention rather than for family care. So perhaps the Minister will take a closer look at this: is it true that the government has quantified how many children you think should be placed, or does the government agree with the Danish People's Party that it is not about having fewer or more places, but that it is about the right children being placed on a well-documented basis?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210182034	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210182035	The absolutely crucial thing for me, which I hope will be left behind after my speech just now, is that it is a question of ensuring the right effort • ensuring the right effort at the right time. That is why I would say that when we see that too many young people are being placed who cannot be in a foster family because they have too difficult problems because they are too damaged by the failures they have suffered, it tells me that there are too many children we have failed by not acting in the past. The rapporteur himself used the example of the acute coercive measures, the President's decisions, which are being reversed, but the placement itself is being maintained in the vast majority of cases, and therefore the question I am left with is how many chances the parents have been given, i.e. how many times they have been betting on something less intrusive before one was in a situation where it could be said that the situation was so serious for the child that one could decide on an emergency placement when one chooses to keep the placement in most cases. It tells me that there is something fundamentally wrong here and that we are putting in too late. One of the children I spoke to at Marienborg had a message to the Prime Minister and me, which was that he thought parents should have two chances of basically abandoning their children, and not too small things like forgetting the food package and something like that. He had experienced some parents who had received many, many chances with many failures of him.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210182201	The next question on a brief note is Mrs Anni Matthiesen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210182205	Thank you and thank you for the Minister's speech. I would really like to follow up on what Mrs Adsbøl has just said, because what I think almost hurts us all is all the figures that the Minister has just highlighted in her speech • everything that goes so badly in this area. It can almost make me sleepless at night if you don't get the right thing done and this just goes on, and I have to say that I have no doubt that, of course, there will continue to be children who have to be brought under compulsion. Unfortunately, there is no doubt about that, I would say, but that is how it will be. I'm just wondering, couldn't the government also be involved in trying to see if there could be other tools that could be spread out more? So, I could hear the Minister saying that early action is important, and I have to say that for many of these children it is the whole family that is a problem. The minister also mentioned it himself: you are not in a position to do the parenting. Wasn't it an idea to try to get a little closer to ensuring that more families manage the parental task?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210182317	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210182319	Thank you. Well, it is quite clear that it has a very high value every time we, as a society, can help some vulnerable parents to have a parenting role. After all, it is indisputable that it has a very great value for them, for the family, for the child and, as such, for us as a society, because it is cheaper if we can help some to manage the parental task. My concern, when I look at the figures that are coming from the Ankestyrelsen and when we look at the very sad figures in everything from homeless statistics on suicide statistics to who ends up standing outside the labour market on early retirement as a very young person, is, of course, that we go too far along that path a little too often. I am very concerned that we need to look at the processes that exist, up to making decisions about placement, either by force or by cooperation, and, moreover, also delve deeper into what may be the reasons behind these different movements that we see over time, in relation to the success of voluntary placements and how many are forced to be carried. I think there's just some dark figures for some kids who don't get the help they need earlier.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210182428	The next question is Mrs Trine Torp, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210182432	Thank you. And thank you for your speech with a lot of good points and mention of a lot of the areas where you can say that the municipalities are not doing very well, as it now seems. However, there was one thing that I was listening to about the Minister's coming up with, namely what the municipalities also had to do in order to draw up a separate plan of support for parents and to grant a section 54 support person to a child during a placement. And this is not just for the parents' sake, it is also for the children's sake, because the best you can do for a child is in a lot of ways to create peace around the placement, that the parents are also being taken care of. For someone whom I have spoken to and who has previously been placed said, among other things, that it meant so much to know that there were some who helped the parents. So I would just like to ask the Minister: how do the government and the minister feel about it not being used so much?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210182535	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210182536	I recognise that it is important to work with the biological parents also for the sake of the parents, but to a large extent also for the sake of the children, because I agree with the SF's rapporteur that it is some of the things that can determine whether there can be calmness and security and stability around a child. I have also talked to former people who spent most of their school hours in the campus to be worried about how their mother now went and felt, since she was still in alcohol abuse with a violent man. And that doesn't provide good conditions for a safe child's life. We also see too many cases and there I have also talked to several children, who tell how much it affects them, when there is continuing to be anxiety about the association and decisions continue to be appealed to • how much it fills in a child's life. So I very much agree with what the SF's rapporteur is really calling for, namely that it is also part of the prerequisite for creating the calm and stability for the child, which is our main task when, as a society, we take on the parental responsibility that we take on when we place a child. Some of the stability is, of course, about ensuring that the child does not experience a lot of shifts, but even when we succeed in doing so, it is true that then there is also a task to ensure that there is a calm surrounding the placement, where cooperation and support for the biological parents play an important role.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210182653	The next question is Mr. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210182657	Thank you to the Minister for a very good speech. I believe that this will be the period when the child's reform will also be under control, just as I believe that several of the limping major reforms will be under control, and I look forward to that. The question is how do we do it? There I stay a little bit in the trail and am also interested in the balance between supporting the family and then placing. When the Minister tells us that we need an earlier effort, is it an earlier effort to support the families as much as you can in order for a child to stay there, or is it an earlier effort to remove the child? Will we see that we have more placements than we might have had before if the Social Democrats are to decide?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210182740	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210182742	The very short answer is: Yes, we can risk that if you want to put it that way. Because I believe that some of those children end up having a really, really big catalogue of problems as they are placed late. We have failed as a society; they should have been placed in the past, and there we would also have had some long-term placements to go into. And then I agree that when we talk about past bets, placements are not the only tool we have to do well with. And, as I also said to the rapporteur, I cannot remember whether it was for the SF's rapporteur or the Danish People's Party's rapporteur. It means something for the biological parents to do something to support them in their parenting capacity, but it also means a great deal to the children. And the child's right here is the most important thing for me. I have seen too many examples of children who experience not being involved and not being heard, and where their desires are not the decisive ones, but those of their parents. And that was, in fact, some of the things we tried to change with the child's reform, namely to get the child's voice stronger in the child's own case, and here we are not in the end. We're not in the target in practice. We can see that on the children's barometer. The question is whether there should also be some legislative changes before we get all the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210182848	Thank you, Minister. We shall now proceed to the debate and to the general rules for short remarks, and the first rapporteur on the floor is the rapporteur for the questioners, and that is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210182913	Thank you. The overall objective of the child's reform at the time of its adoption was to ensure continuity of placement, to ensure a stable and close adult contact for vulnerable children, to strengthen the interests of the child, to safeguard the rights of vulnerable children, to ensure previous efforts, to ensure more quality both in the case and in the action. However, the Danish People's Party is concerned about the treatment of vulnerable children and their families, their networks and foster families throughout our system. We are concerned about a system failure, and although a great many political initiatives have been taken following the child's reform, which should make things better in the work of vulnerable children, their families and their networks, it lags enormously behind. In the Danish People's Party, unfortunately, we often experience cases where siblings are not placed together • what else is the purpose of the law • we also often experience that the association between children and their family, grandparents or networks or other associates, for example. also a former foster family, being reduced to a minimum or being cut completely away on the grounds that it is for the sake of the child's health and well-being not to have contact. We also find that young people and children are often not heard in relation to their wishes or their needs, and studies have also shown this. We find that early action is not being implemented quickly enough or at all in relation to the prevention clause of the Service Act. We experience a lack of quality assurance in section 50 studies, in parental competence studies, in child conversations, which should not just be a fly bone. It is important to talk to a child that there is the right framework, that the child is heard, that the child is informed about his or her rights, and we in the Danish People's Party believe that there should be a whole change of culture in this area. That is why we have also wanted a culture of excavation involving experts and others who have knowledge and expertise in this area, and of course also the children themselves, parents' associations, which have just to make a number of recommendations to us, and we have, of course, made a small step forward in this respect in relation to the reserve agreement. But there is also a need for knowledge collection in this area. The law clearly states that a child's conversation is to be held. The municipality must talk to the child before making its decision, so that the child knows what decision the municipality intends to make, and a child must also have the opportunity to speak. But in almost half of the cases investigated by the Ankestyrelsen, the law has not been observed. Many children experience that their words are not weighted and many children simply do not know why they are placed. The obligation of municipalities to vulnerable children and their families is described in Chapter 11 of the Social Services Act. The aim of the law is to provide support for children and young people who have a special need for it so that they can achieve the same opportunities for personal development, health and independent adulthood as their peers, and municipalities must decide on the basis of what is best for a child. It is stated in Section 46 of the Service Act. The support to be provided by the municipality must ensure continuity of upbringing and a safe care environment offering close and stable relationships with adults, among others. by supporting the child or young person's family relations and other networks, ensuring the child or young person's opportunities for personal development and the building up of competences to enter into social relations and networks, supporting the child's or young person's schooling and the opportunity to complete an education, the health and well-being of the child or young person, and preparing the child or young person for an independent adult life. This means that the municipality's support for the child and the young person and the family must therefore be offered early and holistic so that problems can be prevented and addressed as far as possible in the home or in the immediate environment, and it must be organised in each case on the basis of a concrete and individual assessment of the circumstances of each child or young person and family, and the child's views must be taken into account. But we just keep seeing that doesn't happen in the real world, and we see and hear horrible stories. The other day there was a grandmother who wrote to me that she had had her little granddaughter in network care for very many years, but that the municipality had given him home, and now she just fought to get to see him. This means that a relationship between children and their carers is also not given high weight, and it does not matter whether it is grandparents, parents or others, and you simply look very much at the connection. So we simply want changes in this area and also think that it may be other laws we need to look through, possibly the parental responsibility law. Because we must think that it is a child's right to see his family and see his network, which is important, and then I think we should also have much more focus on the network in relation to placement and just look at the resources rather than finding five errors. In addition, I think it should be borne in mind that this does not mean that children should be placed, but it may mean that action must be taken with help and support. Now the President is looking at me, so I should read out a proposal for adoption. Oh, you have so much on your mind on a Tuesday night like this. I would like to read out a proposal for adoption on behalf of all the parties of the Folketing: proposals for adoption • Vulnerable children, young people and their families must be helped. The Danish Parliament has adopted major reforms and legislative changes to ensure that this happens over the last ten years. The Danish Parliament notes that there are still challenges with the quality of efforts and legal certainty for children and families in this area, including the rules introduced by the Children's Reform, despite the fact that municipalities have a duty to comply with the law. The Danish Parliament therefore expects the government to follow up on the administration of legislation by the municipalities in order to ensure that the municipalities focus on prevention and family care and the quality of children's cases and legal certainty in the field of children is strengthened. The parties behind the reserve agreement have agreed to a study of the local authorities' placement cases, which will be discussed with experts, municipalities, practitioners, organisations and children in order to solve the challenges in the field of placement. The Folketing invites the government to call the parties of the Folketing for discussion as soon as the studies are available and to follow up on the compliance of the municipalities with the legislation. V 27).
ParlaMint-DK_20191210183615	Thank you to the rapporteur for the proposal for adoption, which will be included in the further negotiations. There is no wish for short remarks. The next rapporteur is Mrs Camilla Fabricius from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210183634	Thank you, Madam President. The vast majority of children in Denmark grow up in homes with good parents who give them care and love and support, and that is good, and it should preferably stay that way. But unfortunately there are also many children, too many children, where the dream of a happy childhood ends in a nightmare. We all know things like the girls from Tønder, the children from Brønderslev, the three sisters from Slagelse, who were all betrayed at the cruelest by the people and by the society that should have looked after them. We have experienced children who have been offended, who have been beaten, children who go to bed hungry or who have to be adults too soon because they have to take care of their siblings when their parents can no longer, because parents, because of illness and abuse and in other ways unhappy events, cannot give children the security and closeness and love that children need. The child's reform focused on vulnerable children's rights. They were strengthened and legislation made clear that the children at risk had the right to be heard and to be involved. The child's reform was originally a political agreement made in connection with the rate pool in 2010 which was about the children who needed special support from the rest of society and perhaps even an placement outside the home. It was a very good step on the way to being on the child's side when it comes to one of the most difficult social policy tasks. However, this does not mean that the political intentions have yet been achieved. We may have made some progress, but there are still some municipalities that have problems complying with the rules, and that is a very boring trend. Because when it comes to the failure of vulnerable children and young people, where there is not enough follow-up and they do not get the help they need, that is not good enough. Because as a society, we need to be on the side of the children. Fortunately, we fully agree on this in the Danish Parliament, and that is one of the things we need to lift and do even better, and we have also shown this with the agreement on the implementation of the reserve in the social field for 2020, where we have agreed to have the location examined more closely, and, more specifically, the study must be carried out at the next independent legal entity, which was agreed at the rate pool negotiations. A number of cases are to be examined in respect of the placements without consent, on the one hand, cases in which the Ankestyrelsen has withdrawn the decision to place them and, on the other hand, cases in which the Ankestyrelsen has maintained the decision to place them. The purpose is therefore for us to create an overview of the patterns, and which cases the Ankestyrelsen does not confirm, but to make visible what challenges there are in the specific cases, and we look forward to that study very much. It is simply the heartblood of social democracy and, fortunately, of the whole of the Folketing that children have a good and stable childhood, that we, as a society, stand together on the side of children and that we have a society where more children and young people have the opportunity to shape their own lives. This is and remains one of our most important projects. Then I would also like to thank you for the great cooperation that has taken place where a united Parliament has supported a text. It has shown that we continue to discuss, continue to shape, continue to gather together, that we will stand on the side of the children, and I will personally give the questioner, Mrs Karina Adsbøl, a cadeau to be persistent once again in what is so central to the whole parliament, namely that we stand on the side of the children. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210184101	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment on Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210184107	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I would like to hear Mrs Camilla Fabricius: what does the rapporteur think about other things that we have put in place? We hear about section 54 in relation to the support contact person that you are not informed of your rights. We hear about grandparents who can't see their grandchildren. We hear about so many cases, that's crazy. In fact, we are also hearing about a great many municipalities, at least as rapporteur. So what exactly does it take? Does the rapporteur think that we should look at other legislation? Well, could it be you have to go in and look at the parental responsibility law? What is the rapporteur's view on this matter? Now I know that the rapporteur himself has had meetings with grandparents in relation to this area. I know this is about the right of the child to see his family, but does the rapporteur think that something should be done?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210184216	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210184217	I think that in this debate it has proved to be very central that when we say, and when I say that we must stand on the side of the child, it is therefore about the child's best interests and what it is about a closeness that is for the child. And if children need some form of continued contact with their parents and grandparents, that is essential. It is also essential that we get set in so early that children actually have an opportunity to grow up and exploit their potentials. I myself have a long experience of working at a special school and have worked with children who have been placed outside their homes. And it is absolutely crucial that when we talk about both the specific cases and also when we look at the many cases that have been raised here, we have to learn from it. That's why this study is going to be central to the starting point we've got in the future. In fact, in relation to the last question put by the rapporteur of the Alternative, I think that this is simply a period in which the child is put at the centre; and we have given each other a hand on this. So what we need to tackle in concrete terms, I think that time should actually show, but that something needs to be done, the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party can be quite sure that we have given each other a handshake.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210184338	Mrs Karina Adsbøl for another comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210184339	We fully agree that preventive action must be taken early. I've got one of them. visited Vibygård, who has family treatment, and we also know that the offer that is needed may often not be received. I would therefore be concerned if the rapporteur's party simply wanted us to go out and put more children, because that is also what I have read about on the Internet. I guess it's about the pre-emptive efforts. But it is not always happiness to be placed, because we see breakdown in placements time and time again, and it is not, of course, because children who have been in foster homes or placed in a 24-hour institution are doing better because they have been placed than if they had not been placed there we do not know.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210184429	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210184430	I think that when you look at the cases that have been presented both personally in the press and where otherwise it may be, I agree with the Minister that there is a very strong concern for some large dark figures. And I think it is precisely to say that we must do what is necessary. This is about children's resources. When I say in my rapporteur's speech that it is about standing on the side of the child, we mean it. Well, then we think we have to take the hold that needs to be done. And then we also have to look openly at what it takes. I think we just need to be ready for this to be difficult. This is complex when there are children who grow up with a weekday that isn't okay, and have a childhood that isn't okay; so it's And now the President gets up, so I'll say thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210184525	This is what the President is doing in order to recommend that speaking time be respected and that it is almost exceeded. It's a question from Mrs. Trine Torp, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210184544	Thank you. I think we are all concerned that it is the children that we must put first and that the best interests of the children are the most important. What I am thinking of is the fact that, in examining whether the municipalities are doing what they are doing, we also hear that we are examining whether they are really doing everything they can to prevent children from being placed. To take just one example, there is an increasing number of children with a disability who are being placed, and there you could be curious whether it might have been possible to enable those families to have their children with the disability at home with the right support and help, or whether it is better for the children to be placed. I am just sometimes in doubt whether this always using placement as the solution is going to shade a little too much for our interest in what the children need from help and how much of the family can deliver and how much we as a society should supplement with.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210184650	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210184651	I do not think there are any contradictions in what Mrs Trine Torp mentions. I do not think that an early effort which is based on tests of as much contact as possible in the family is contrary to looking at the cases we have and then looking at whether anything else should have been done. I think it is crucial that we look at the whole palette. It may be family treatment; it may be networking; it may, if it is very complicated cases, be looking at raising the quality of 24-hour institutions. In reality, this is about, I think, that we need to look at a general increase in quality in the social field and could make demands on those with whom we work. So it is not one thing, but many things we have to do, and we are obliged to do that for the sake of the children. So for me, it's not conflicting. But when we look at it, we have to do it earlier.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210184754	Mrs Trine Torp for her second brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210184755	I think we should listen very much to the many young people or adults who say that they did not think there was enough help in their childhood. But I think we should also try to understand what they might have thought had happened, because what are they asking for? Do all those who think they didn't get enough help in their childhood wish they had been placed earlier or that they had been placed at all? Or do they wish someone had put up with some help for them and their family? What does the rapporteur think?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210184835	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210184836	In fact, I think that the text we have agreed on together says quite precisely what we should be curious about. So when the text says that we will launch a study and discuss it with experts, municipalities, practitioners, organisations and children placed in it, then we also say that we have to base ourselves on the knowledge we gain, and I think that is actually very strong of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210184901	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party. The next rapporteur is Mrs Anni Matthiesen, and she is from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210184911	Thank you for that, President. As rapporteur for the Social Affairs and Internal Affairs of the Left, I have looked very much forward to having this debate here late on Tuesday evening, because it is one of the things that can be said that I think we are all passionate about. That is why, fortunately, we also arrived at a joint proposal for adoption, for which I would also like to thank, because I really think that is what is important, namely that we are united in this task. The child's reform was, and still is, important for the Left, and it is based on an early effort, but also on the rights of the child. The child's reform helps to ensure that vulnerable children and young people have the best opportunities to thrive and develop their personal and professional skills, which is why we must of course also ensure that it is implemented in the municipalities. This is one of the things that we in the Left believe to be extremely important and one of the things that we have always had an opinion on and for that matter still stand. We believe that it is important that we give all children the best possible start to life, and it is important and necessary that we give particular priority to the first years of the child's life. That's where we know they're being affected a lot. That is why we also voted in favour when the Bill on the Children's Reform was discussed in 2010. That is why it is also very disappointing when, after all, we are still in a situation where there are major challenges with the way in which the municipalities implement the legislation in this area. In fact, I believe that we all have a responsibility to try to rectify this, to try to follow the legislation even more closely. Fortunately, we also had some money set aside from the reserve to look deeper into this in relation to having a more in-depth study of the placement area out in the municipalities. Since the child's reform, we have also adopted other major reforms, which, I hope, will also mean a better everyday life for very many children at risk. We were, among other things. in the Left, to give priority to a good start to the life of children in the first 1,000 days of life, an initiative such as: should allow for the provision of funding for 475 more trained educators and educational assistants in the day-to-day services, also to help many of the children at risk. However, in order for actions like this to work in practice, it is important that we have all actors able to carry out their respective tasks, and that we in the Folketing also shoulder our share of the responsibility, and that the municipalities • yes, the municipalities also undertake the task and play a part in complying with the law. One of the things I have spoken about a great deal, and I can hear that is one of the things that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party and also Mrs Trine Torp come around a little bit, is whether we should do even more in the early effort. Perhaps I am thinking even more about the whole family. I have to say that, like the Minister, I have also spoken to a number of young people who have been in positions of responsibility in the past, and a number of those whom I have spoken to have pointed out that they could have dreamed that they had taken up earlier, but also that they had actually had the opportunity to stay with their father and mother, and that the effort had been made in relation to the whole family. That is why I hope that the Minister will help us to investigate even more. Well, could it also be a better way to go for some of these kids? And then, as I said in my question to the Minister before, I acknowledge that there will always be children to be placed and where it is best to put them, but I would like us to have the courage, even stronger and even more clearly, to take up children's families significantly earlier in order to help parents on their way to becoming good parents. Of course, we support the proposal for adoption, and then I have promised to welcome the Conservatives, who also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210185359	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief remark from Mrs Trine Torp, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210185405	Forgive me for distracting the rapporteur in his speech, but there was just a little school class in it. What I wanted to ask was something else. I believe that all municipalities are interested in treating their children and young people properly, so what we should also be curious about is what prevents them from complying with the intentions of the law, because I do not think it is a lack of will. That is why I would like to hear from the rapporteur: regardless of whether it is about placement or about a great many of the preventive measures, these are very expensive measures, and for some municipalities it may mean that if they have such a handful of vulnerable children and young people for whom something really expensive has to be done, it will knock the bottom out of their economy and they will have to open up budgets and save on schools and day care centres. This is certainly the wrong way to go if you want to prevent it. Does the rapporteur and the Left have any suggestions as to how we can reduce the burden on the municipalities so that they are not so burdened by the costs involved?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210185514	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210185516	I have to say that I really think that the SF's rapporteur is taking up a point here which is extremely important and which I can also say that I am getting many inquiries about in these months directly from the municipalities, which are actually concerned because the number of placement cases is increasing. And the cost they're gonna get from this is just gonna pierce their town hall. That is actually why I would like to try to ask for some other measures. Well, there I am. say that the municipality of Aabenraa, which I have visited and where I have heard more about this, has chosen to use some new methods. They may not save money at first, but they are of the opinion that in a few years they will be able to look at their finances, that they can actually save money by taking action earlier on the whole family.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210185609	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210185612	Nor am I in any doubt that we can make some really good both economic and human investments by doing something more for the vulnerable families. But my question is really more about how we can avoid it being for economic reasons that we either refrain from acting and do not put proper preventive measures in place, or that we do not put it in place when it is really necessary. So how can we prevent the economy from playing a role in decision-making in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210185644	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210185646	There I must be honest and say that we have municipal autonomy, and fortunately for that, but we also have a responsibility here at Christiansborg to help the municipalities in the situation they are in, both in relation to various measures that we can, frankly speaking, bear out to them, but also in relation to ensuring that the economy can be connected in the municipalities. Then there is something like a compensatory arrangement before long, and I also believe that in some places at least it can help to give a helping hand.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210185722	The next question is Mrs Camilla Fabricius, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210185726	I have both learned to keep an eye on the timing from the platform and to print for the word here, so I thank you for that. What I would like to ask is that when you hear the Minister, and when you see the studies, it is not just at the beginning, that is in the early effort, but it is also at the end. Where ordinary Danish young people with an ordinary Danish background only have to fend for themselves when the insurance is at home, i.e. when you are 21 years old there are a lot of people who stay home for a long period of time and we see young people who have to take care of themselves from the age of 18. And what it points to is that things aren't going very well. And as the Minister also describes it in his speech, you can see that young people placed there are really challenged and have been so for a long time. So what does the rapporteur of the Left think about the end of the placement?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210185823	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210185825	It is quite clear that once again it is the transitions that need to be focused on. After all, it is for these children who, frankly, must be led on to hopefully being able to function in life themselves. We have to say that this has not worked well enough. In many places it is precisely as we also see, those who end up in homelessness etc. That means, at least for me, that it does not work well enough. I actually think that we should be even better at perhaps also thinking about mentoring, i.e. whether there could be an opportunity for them, frankly, to have someone they could hold their hand so that they were led into adult life more calmly and in that way could learn to take care of themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210185910	Mrs Camilla Fabricius for her second brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210185914	So I can hear that the rapporteur of the Left is ready to help make a strong effort both for the small ones but also for the transitions.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210185927	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210185929	I have to say that I hope that the more fundamental study that we have now pushed into the agreement we have made around the reserve also gives us better tools for making even better decisions in this area. Because I think this is an area that is crying out for help, and that is why I believe that there is an interest across all parties here in the Folketing that we are now taking up this task. Otherwise, it hits society, it hits municipalities, and for that matter it affects a great many people in a purely human way. I don't think we can be familiar with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210190002	The next question is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210190005	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mrs Matthiesen for her speech. In the Danish People's Party we are very much in agreement with what was said about the early efforts and prevention in families and family care, which we have discussed in the past. But now that Mrs Anni Matthiesen is talking about mentoring and the transition, I can say that at least some of us have fought for defense. Protection is granted to children who have been placed and it is granted today until the 23rd year, but it is a 'can' clause that is something you can give. So I am just a little curious to know whether the rapporteur thinks that this should be a "must" provision, so that, in the context of the transition, the municipalities should simply be obliged to follow the young people and not let them go until they get on their way well. Because we have just seen many, many young homeless people, now there has been a small drop in numbers, and many of them have been placed in the past. Yeah, that's the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210190117	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210190119	Thank you and thank you for the question. Mrs Karina Adsbøl knows that when you change something from one can to another, there is always a demand for a lot of money. I am not going to reject anything, but I really think we all have a job to do now to wait for this in-depth study and then to sit down together afterwards. Fortunately, we have also written into the text of the agreement that we will all meet again when we have the studies ready, and then we will have to sit around the table and find out what it takes to make this better.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210190150	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210190152	Thank you. I fully agree that it will be exciting to see what is coming. I already have a number of ideas that I think it would be easy to implement. But I would really like to ask how the rapporteur feels about the obligation to notify. What is the rapporteur's view of information? Because that's often what I hear about. In fact, I heard about a mother who went to a women's crisis center, and a report was then made on her children and, at the moment, her children are actually about to be placed. She sought help, she had run away from a man who was practicing violence against her, and went to a shelter, and then a notification was made, and now her children are in position. So, what does the rapporteur think about this, in other words that there may be some who do not seek help because they are simply afraid that their children will be placed outside the home?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210190244	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210190246	Well, I don't know the specific case. However, I can say that some of the requests I have received here recently, and which I also know have been asked questions to the Minister about, and which I personally can also get a lot of pain in my stomach about, are inquiries about the fact that it is due to the disability of the child that you choose to place the child. The latest one was from a mother who called me and said that her child was an autistic, and that she actually thought that one might speculate about placing the child rather than simply giving the help that was needed. These are the things where I think: we cannot hold on to that; we, as Members of Parliament, cannot hold on to that either. But we have now started by asking some questions to clarify things, and then we have to see if there are more of these kinds of cases, because that is not the way it should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210190338	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Marianne Jelved. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210190350	I am not the rapporteur at all, but since Anne Sophie Callesen cannot be here today, she is the rapporteur. I must say what the Radical Left thinks on today's subject. I note that the Minister made an excellent speech. I would like to sign for that and say that it is actually encouraging for the work we are facing. The Minister outlined the Barnet's reform and also, as I heard, stated that the ambitions of the reform are quite right in that sense, and I agree with that. But the Minister also noted that the intentions of the child's reform are not being met, and that is why we have the question that we have today and the adoption that we are going to adopt at some point, because we all agree with the statement that the Minister also made. Is the legislation okay? then asked the minister. In general terms, it may well be, but in that case the legislation is not being followed, so to speak we must not, at least not, according to what was meant by it. Perhaps that is the main problem in what we are talking about now. There are a great many failed cases of intervention against children, and they often come too late, or there is not enough help when something finally arrives. The whole effort for placement must be based on the rights and needs of the child, but sometimes, unfortunately, it is the adult perspective that comes across and which will determine whether the right decisions are made for children. It is, for example, when parents' rights of association outweigh the best interests of the child, or when the difficult work of dealing with matters properly and ensuring that children are heard, results in children being forcibly removed, where the municipality should instead have set in much earlier with preventive measures. Overall, the municipalities may also ideally have to decide very early before birth and after birth whether the parents actually need a different effort than just waiting to see if things are going, and I think that with the very early effort I think it is very crucial that you get better. It is also clear that there must be resources in the municipalities for what needs to happen, and perhaps that is also what many times is a problem for the municipalities, namely to provide the resources or see for themselves that they actually by investing heavily at the start save money along the way. I would now like to draw your attention to some of the experiments that are actually taking place around the country, including: in the municipality of Aarhus and in the municipality of Sønderborg, with early efforts or what I call relational, i.e. that you create relationships with the exposed family, so that they gain confidence in themselves and to interact with the case workers in a way that makes miracles actually happen in a family that gets back on their feet. So social policy can also be done in other ways than by following legislation, namely by going in and dealing specifically with the association of the families that need it in particular. Several of the rapporteurs have just pointed to the family effort, and I think it is a very, very important eye-opener if we can use it and use some of the experiments whose results have not yet been published, because they have not been completed, but are coming before too long. I have just had the opportunity to know about them along the way and am very inspired and very encouraged by what can actually succeed in a family with the right treatment. That is why I will conclude by painting out a picture that I have made up myself once, where I sat in a group of politicians from different parties and areas in the communal landscape of North Jutland and tried to form me a picture of what is really going wrong, when it goes wrong and what is happening. I can just take an example with a family with a single mother and three children. The oldest goes to fifth grade, and the other two go to kindergarten and first grade. The oldest skipper and skipper, and finally it is pointed out from school, but the mother can't figure out how to handle this kid who's skipping school, and what's the problem is that there's no one at the school, neither the teachers nor the management, who follow up on what the boy really does. They just notice that he's gone, and they bring it to the mother's attention every once in a while. But in reality, the child is what I call a sort of baton; there is someone who must always be responsible for holding the child's hand, and the moment you let go, you have to be sure that someone else has the hand. It should not just be a leader who refers to the social services and says that now they must come and help the family, and then let it pass that the child does not meet at school, but runs around doing things all around. So the thing about the baton picture, I kind of think it's very good. You can't let go until someone else grabs the other hand. In this way, I believe that a great deal could actually be achieved.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210190901	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur from Mrs Anni Matthiesen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210190907	Thank you. Thank you to Mrs Marianne Jelved. In other words, I am very, very much in agreement with what has been said about the image that the rapporteur has just drawn. In other words, there are some of the things that I have actually seen, namely that if you manage to take action early and also somehow both father and mother and, for that matter, the children too, you can get very far. I was also thinking about this, and I would like to hear the rapporteur's comment on whether we could do something more about linking these things to health care, which already comes out to the families. Could it be imagined that some resource people could also be connected to help where the healthcare provider is saying in some way: here we have a problem that we need to solve. Could that be an option?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210190953	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210190955	I think it certainly could. And that also applies if you imagined the health care provider as such a kind of key person that connects attention between the family and the municipality. Then you could imagine a special educator coming in and joining that family. In fact, I have experienced this in a project that Bill Clinton did when he was governor of Arkansas. What he was doing there at the end of the 1980s was very farsighted. So I'm sure you can. And the examples of work that is under way show that families have actually been raised and started, and that children have been corrected and so on. It works if you put in the right relationships with the families.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210191045	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210191048	Well, I would just like to say thank you for what the rapporteur is saying in relation to what I am hoping for at least a little bit, namely that perhaps we could gather even more together across the parties in order to make an effort. For, as I also said in my rapporteur's speech, of course, there will, unfortunately, always be children who have to be forced to be removed because there are some parents who cannot be corrected. But I still believe that the happiest thing would be if you managed to have more children after all to stay in the home, and that you then put in an intensive effort towards both mother and mother, and for that matter also the children. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210191125	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210191127	You're welcome. I would say that one can also imagine that there will actually be an opportunity for the child to visit the parents, in other words that you can have a relationship between the child and the parents in the right circumstances, while the child still lives with, for example, the child. a foster family or an institution, if it should be. But the fact that you have contact between parents and children is also a positive thing, although it cannot be 24 hours a day.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210191156	Thank you to Mrs Marianne Jelved from the Radical Left. The next rapporteur on the platform is from the SF, and that is Mrs Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210191205	Thanks to the Danish People's Party for this great tradition that has been created, where once a year we get stopped and discuss how it goes with giving support and help to the children, young people and families who need it. This area concerns us widely across parties, there's no doubt about that. Today's debate can also be heard, and Parliament has also made a large number of reforms in this area to ensure that vulnerable children, young people and families receive the help they need. But there will be a need for a constant focus on the area, because it is about some of those who are most dependent on others creating proper conditions of care and development for them, namely children and young people. We have in many ways a very good law in this area, but we still need to keep an eye on how it is managed, both when it comes to early preventive action; when we are informed of the concerns of a child; when we need to act to protect children from abuse; when children and young people and their parents are to be involved; when we need to plan and follow up on it, etc. etc. Unfortunately, we are still hearing about problems of quality and legal certainty in the effort: from parents who do not experience the support and help to support their relationship with their children; from children and young people who do not feel heard and involved in the decisions taken about them and feel that they are getting away too early at the age of 18; from staff in the administration of preventive work and at placement sites who find it difficult to do their work properly within the framework that is; but also from placement sites, which report that this so-called stairway, which is the one that, like marking how intrusive a measure is being made, has become such a stairway, just as has to go up. That is to say, there are an incredible number of breaks in the bets there are. I heard someone use a different term at one point, namely that it is instead of a escalator, namely such a flexible one, so as to ensure that the bet is placed exactly according to the needs that may exist. There is a need to strengthen the framework for working with vulnerable children and young people, including: in that there are not too many cases on the part of the case officers who have to assess what a family needs, but also know that it is not the economy that determines whether a municipality sets the right thing in motion at the right time. The discussion on whether there are too few or too many placements does not, in my opinion and the SF, make sense. Children and young people who need to be placed must be placed in the right place with the right quality and care. But the children and young people who will benefit more from supporting them to stay in their families must be given sufficient help to do so. It is therefore not the number of placements that are interesting, but whether it is the right children and young people who are placed and whether there is enough help in relation to their parents. Early efforts can mean something incredibly different. If you ask children who have come on the other side if they would have liked some help in the past, many of them will probably say that they would like to. But what are they answering? Does that mean they would have liked to have been placed? Or does this mean that they would have actually just had someone who had seen their family's needs and helped the family sooner? Actually, we don't know that. There are so many opportunities to provide support and help that just need to be used. There is a need for better involvement and real legal certainty for children, young people and parents, and this requires competence and good management in both administrations and places of employment. However, we must not fall into the trap of adding even more processing and documentation requirements to the area. The area is drowning in them. Because it removes time from contact with children and parents and does not necessarily say anything about the quality of work. In the SF, we are pleased that the agreement on the social reserve after the rate pool agreed that there should be an examination of the location area, so that we can discuss politically whether there should be changes. I believe that we should be open to whether the structures are as they should be; whether the decisions in the children's cases are in the right places; whether the way in which the area is financed is perhaps one of the reasons why the economy is going to play a major role in the decision and visitation of cases. Some municipalities are considerably more pressured against expenditure in this area than others, and perhaps we should find a more solidarity way of financing such an important area. Finally, I would just like to say that we support the proposal for adoption which has been read out earlier.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210191705	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no requests for short remarks. I do not see Enhedslisten's rapporteur in the Chamber. The next rapporteur is from the alternative, and that is Mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210191727	Thank you, President. No, I don't see the Conservatives either, so it's gotta be my turn. After all, we have been standing here many times now for hearings and questions and consultations, where we tell each other why the child's reform does not work as it should. The aim of the reform was to ensure continuity in placements; to ensure stable and close adult contact for vulnerable children; to strengthen the interests of the child rather than the interests of the parents; to safeguard the rights of vulnerable children; to ensure previous efforts; to ensure more quality in both the case and the efforts; and to provide a better framework for the efforts of municipalities, including debureaucratisation. I think that in the real world there are just so many stories, hundreds of stories, perhaps thousands of stories, which show that all the points I have just read are actually compromised. We have heard a large selection of these stories today, and many others we have heard in other contexts, and they are in all of our inboxes and many others have probably never been told. But at least we have come to a time when more words are of little use. Action must be taken, which is why I am pleased that the parties behind the reserve agreement have agreed on a study of the local authorities' placement cases, which will be discussed with experts, municipalities, practitioners, organisations and children placed in care to solve the challenges in the field of placement. On the back of that study, we must act and make legislation that I hope will be as successful as I think the child's reform, or at least the management of it, has been a failure. I do not want to anticipate that work, but I can at least say today that in the alternative, we do not automatically think we should have more placements. We are aware that placement may be necessary, but as a starting point we must support the families so that the placement does not become necessary, and we see as a starting point a placement as a temporary effort where the child has to return to his family. This will not always be the case, and it should not always be the case. But it is the starting point of the alternative that we will try to keep the families together. I believe, as I said, that we will have this reform corrected during this period of government. Mette Frederiksen simply cannot call himself the Prime Minister of the children without making great improvements in the area of housing. It's gonna be exciting. It's gonna take a while. I think we're gonna get a good result.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210192001	Thank you to the rapporteur for the alternative. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is ready and ready to jump. It's sir. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210192014	Thank you. Before I start talking about concrete policy, I think I should briefly outline how I and the Liberal Alliance view children and their relationship with parents. People sometimes hear people in the debate saying that we should not interfere with that, because it is parents' children, and it is understood that children are in some way the parents' children. We know that, in practice, this is not the kind of policy we are pursuing. We don't actually assume that the kids are the parents'. We assume the children are their own. They then have parents as guardians, and it is in the vast majority of cases the best people to take care of the children's lives, because they are the most interested in the children being well. They love children with an honest heart and want nothing but the best of their children. And that's why the family is a fantastic thing, because it's so good at helping the next generation on the way. But some parents aren't like that, and then it's that this whole thing about the kids being their own and not the parents coming in. And that is why my starting point is that if parents do so badly that children have a desire to live elsewhere than with their parents, it is in fact in the vast majority of cases that it does not work at home. For children are willing to put up with a bit of each at home because they know their parents. They are the ones who give them security, they are the ones who have done good things for them. Even if they are bad parents, the children remember that they have done good things for them at some point. And that's why you have to take it very seriously if a child says that the child wants to live somewhere other than with his parents. Then, in the vast majority of cases, there is something very seriously wrong with that home. Therefore, my starting point is that we should give the child some sort of right to decide for himself whether the child will live with his parents. And I'm not afraid children abuse that right, at least not most children. The vast majority of children will not be abused such an arrangement to be allowed to live elsewhere without any reason for doing so. For children want to live with their parents, unless something is seriously wrong. And I also think it should be communicated to the children that if you turn to a particular telephone number or it shows up in a particular place, you have a right as a child to live elsewhere than with your parents. This is the way to get children to actually act when they experience things in the home that are completely wrong: It is if they have a knowledge that they have a place to go and that if they go there, then some people meet them with the assumption that if they do not want to live with their parents, they are allowed to live elsewhere. And I think we need that today. I think we lack an opinion from the children that they have the right to live somewhere else if it is very bad at home. Because if there were such a view, they would come to the authorities more often and that would be good. I am sure there are examples of child placements that should not have happened. But I think there can be many more examples of placements which did not take place but which should have happened. So I think it has to be said that when we hear about so many cases from the Ankestyrelsen, where it is decided that the child has not been sufficiently consulted and is not aware of why things have happened and so on, it is an indication that we have given children too few rights. So we should do that. I would also like to say that I do not really like the word 'forced'. Because it very often conceals the fact that some children are placed outside the home, and the children would really like that, so for them there is no compulsion. And the starting point must be the kids. It is the parents who feel compelled in that situation, but not the children, so if we have the children's starting point, it is not actually forced to do so. It is a response to the children's wishes.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210192526	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Trine Torp, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210192530	Thank you so much. I am incredibly in agreement with the rapporteur on this point that we must safeguard the rights of children and that, moreover, we must also inform them better that they have them. It is, of course, absolutely essential for you as a child to be able to act as an independent subject, which can help shape your own life, so I really do agree with that. What makes this area so incredibly difficult is that children's perspectives can be difficult to understand, because they are not directly • especially not a 1-year-old who has not learned to speak yet • can express that they want to live elsewhere. So they depend on other adult people to interpret what they say, and that is what is part of the very, very complicated procedure when it comes to determining whether a child is best served by living in one place or another. So how does the rapporteur think we should be better able to really understand the child's perspective in the way that a child can now express himself according to how old they are and what loyalty conflict they can be in?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210192644	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210192646	I fully agree that there are also many cases where the child is either too small to be able to express anything meaningful, or that the child, in an excessive loyalty to the parents, does not indicate that he or she wants to leave the home, although we can see that other adults can see that this is the best thing for the child. I just took the easy cases, I think, and these are the cases where the child himself asks to go somewhere else, and if you can't even solve it because you haven't given children who ask for it, the right that they can be allowed to live somewhere else, then it's not good enough. So those cases are the lowest hanging fruit to pick. Children come and say that they feel so bad in their families that they want to live somewhere else, and that is the lowest hanging fruit to pick, but we haven't even dealt with that properly, I think. Then we can take the hard cases afterwards, and I agree that they are there, and we cannot wait in all cases for children to express it themselves because they are too small, or because they are simply unable to assess what is their own good.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210192745	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210192746	Then I have another thing that can nuance the debate. I think there are incredibly few children who would actually take that right and say that something has to happen now, but at least they have to be listened to when they say that it is difficult to live at home, because that is often what they say, because they do not know what they can get to. But the last thing is about the distinction between being placed under compulsion or without compulsion, and is it not true that far, by far, most placements take place with the consent of the parents?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210192819	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210192823	Yes, that is absolutely right, but now I just heard the term coercion used, and it is an official word that exists, and it has only annoyed me for a long time that, when you use the term coercion or forced removal, it often also covers situations where the children actually agree that they are going somewhere else to live and are actually happy to go somewhere else.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210192847	Thank you to the rapporteur. Since I do not see the rapporteur for the new citizens either, the rapporteurs of all the parties have been there. It seems that the proposers want to speak for a second round, but that is actually the Minister's first. I thought you asked for another round. It's the Social Affairs and the Interior Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210192915	Thank you. Well, it's always incredibly good with eager rapporteurs. Thank you very much to all those who are in this Chamber on a Tuesday evening, for a good and constructive debate on a subject that is difficult and where there are great feelings at stake. I think the debate has been good and rewarding. It has been about the child's reform, and the child's reform had its fundamental focus on exposing children despite difficulties, despite difficult conditions, having to have the same opportunities for personal development, for development, for health as their peers. That is why, following on from the child's reform, there were a number of legislative changes aimed precisely at putting the child at the forefront of an earlier and more systematic effort, because we agreed at the time that we did not do well enough when we took parental responsibility as a society. Today, after all, I have taken that into account, at least, all of us have concluded that we have not yet managed to make sufficient progress on the part of vulnerable children and young people. The intentions of the child's reform were right, there have also been improvements, but it leaves much to be desired yet. There are still too many children and young people who do not get an effort until the problems have grown big and also too big and who are placed too late or are not placed at all, even though we know that parents are not able to do the job. And there are too many children who are suddenly sent away from the safe and loving homes of foster families. All these times we fail because we fail to put the child first. That's not good enough. I also think I have heard a broad recognition of that here today. For children placed in care should not be their social heritage. They must be included on an equal footing with their peers as part of society, and they must have the same chances in life as their peers. For me, the fundamental and most important thing is that the child's right is put first in all parts of the effort, that is, that the right effort is given as early as we possibly can and based on the needs of the child. This means, in concrete terms, that all exposed children must have a safe and stable home from birth. In some cases, this would mean that society would take over the responsibility of parents for the child at an earlier stage than today and would set in with a placement. On the other hand, following on from what society has a huge responsibility to provide security and care for the child or young person in such intrusive matters as a placement is. We do not manage to do that today either. I think that must also be an early conclusion from today's debate. We can look at future prospects when we look at statistics for children and young people in care. It is depressing when we look at education when we look at employment when we look at abuse, suicide and homelessness. It does not work well enough, and it is, of course, crucial that we shoulder that responsibility when we take on such a task as a society, that is to say, lifting parental responsibility. The baby has to be put first. I believe that we need to ensure much more that early action is taken, that there is security and stability around children and young people placed in care, and that places are able to ensure good and safe children's lives for children placed in care, where they have some adults they feel they can trust. We have taken a first step with the agreement on the reserve for 2020, as several of you have also mentioned, where we will, of course, gain new knowledge with two studies, which together I believe can help us to get a better grip on the challenges we face in matters of placement without consent, for example. in relation to legal certainty and the involvement of children, but also in relation to the part that points directly to us, namely how the legislation we have adopted actually works and what it offers of opportunities, but indeed also limitations and problems, in relation to the fact that you can solve the challenge and the responsibility you have at first municipal level. I will work on this with the close involvement of experts, as well as municipalities, practitioners and organisations, and not least the children placed in the care of themselves, and I will do my best to highlight the challenges of the area in addition to the two studies we have launched together, so that we can find the right and long-term solutions so that we can take up the effort and hopefully we do not continue to have annual debates where we find that the intentions and wills are good enough, but the results are not. We must do better as a society. Thank you very much for the input, for the debate and for, I think, the broad recognition that here we are not doing it well enough as a society.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210193340	Thank you, Minister. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210193346	Thank you. I agree with the Minister that what is going on is far from good enough, but I am also concerned about whether the Social Democrats are simply trying to remove more children. 'Cause I just think it sounds like it when the minister's on the platform. I think it is important, in the interests of prevention, to take early action and, of course, there will be children to be placed, but there are also some children who are being placed on the wrong basis. There Mrs Anni Matthiesen said something about what we have heard about in the past, namely that parents who have children with disabilities, or parents who have a child with autism, are experiencing threats from the municipality about placement. We had the former minister in consultation about this very thing, and the former minister also took a dialogue with the Autism Association on this. So it's just finding the right balance in terms of how we find the best solutions. So can the Minister confirm that this isn't about just having more placements? It is about children, of course, who must be placed, but that they must be placed on a well-documented basis and that preventive action must be taken. And then there will be some who must be placed immediately because they have been subjected to atrocities. That's the way it is, but the goal in itself isn't that we just need a lot of placements forward-looking.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210193509	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210193511	After all, this is not just about the very spectacular cases where you can say that there are children who are exposed to atrocities. After all, it is a question of all children having the right to grow up in a safe home with adults who are in charge of parental responsibility. I referred to a little boy who said that parents should have two chances and that he did not mean it by not getting lunches with or getting clean clothes on, because it can happen to anyone. But it was in relation to major failures. There we have to, I think, get a better grip on when it is reasonable to give parents a second chance and when we should actually step in with the children. Now, when we see how many children are placed when they are very large, that is when they are big children or young people, and that they have so many injuries and so complex problems and so many traumas and failures in their luggage that they can only be accommodated on specialized offers and, of course, we must be able to deliver a proper professional quality here, then it tells me that we should look at how we can put in earlier. I think it was SF's rapporteur who used this picture with the stairs, and it's a relic, I was just saying old time, that you have to try the least intrusive first. Well, we need the right effort at the right time, and there's no way a child can live with us trying our way up a stairwell. That is also why I say that when we have the debate on the urgent measures to be taken, I know that the whole public debate is going to be about what was formally wrong with that decision, but that what we should be interested in when we choose to maintain the places is where things have gone wrong in the run-up to that situation. It's a picture for me that we're going to have to turn our focus there.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210193645	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210193647	I think the Minister speaks as if placement is just happiness. We repeatedly see a breakdown in placements. We see planted children being moved around in the system. We also see foster families who have exposed children to failure. We see that there will be a system failure again when the children are placed. Therefore, I would like to focus on family efforts and family care and especially early family care. When the Minister expresses himself as the Minister does, I just think it sounds like it's about placing more and more children, because it's just happiness. But I simply do not believe that it is happiness. For it is primarily about the child, but it is also about the family getting the help and the measures they need, even after their child has been placed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210193746	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210193748	I would like to make that clear, because I also heard the rapporteur of the Alternative, using the phrase that more children should be placed automatically as if we were going to have such a target and result management of it. It is about the right effort at the right time, which is why I also have to keep my tongue straight in my mouth. Because I fully agree that we are not doing it well enough either. Our placements are not good enough, there are too many shifts, there are too many breakdown, there are too many failure of children. But then the answer has to be to make those placements work, raise the quality and get better support for the foster families, instead of saying that because the placements are not good enough, we have to place fewer. We're gonna have to take things apart. For me, there are some crucial stages in this where we fail. We are also really failing when we let go of the placement, because now the young person is going into adulthood. There too, I believe that society is releasing its parental responsibility. It is a difficult discussion, but we will have to try to separate things instead of messing things up, otherwise we will not have a proper discussion about something very difficult.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210193836	Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210193840	I think that the concern is also a little rooted in the fact that there has been a former Socialist rapporteur who has also focused on this and on the fact that the number of places should simply be increased. I do not think that a higher figure in itself is a success. I hope, therefore, that the Minister can confirm that this is the quality of what we are working on, whether it is placements or bets on the whole family, that we must have an eye to raise. And at best, if we succeed in making a greater effort directly for the family and significantly in the past, we can hope that it will not be necessary to increase the number of placements.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210193934	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210193936	As I think I said in my opening speech: In the best of all worlds all children would be born into this world with loving and competent biological parents; in the second best world we would have a system that could either support the parents or most of all intervene in time so that the child would not suffer harm and harm due to failure and neglect, but could thus have another secure foundation where it could take root and trust adults. After all, it cuts your heart when you hear that someone from Children brought in said that the best advice he could give was not to attach too much to some adults, because they just disappear. After all, it is terrible when we, as a society, have assumed parental responsibility that we will not be able to deliver stable adults to these children. I just want to say that I think we should place more children earlier. I think we should. And I think we should do it for the kids. And I think that, in all the discussions we have, we will very quickly blur everything that does not happen because, like the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, we have so much focus on what goes wrong: breakdown of the foster family, mistakes in the procedure. We're gonna have to go deeper than that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210194046	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210194048	I agree very much with the Minister, as long as it is not quite said to be some kind of success criterion, in which, when we stand here in a year's time, the Minister can say that we have now succeeded, because now the number of placements has increased by so many places. I think that instead of looking, as I said before, at how we can ensure that the least possible situation arises, we should look at the need for a location. I also fully agree that there are many places we need to take action. And I look forward to having to deal with that when we get this in-depth investigation. But I think that's why it's something that shatters our ears a little when we hear over and over again that there's going to be more placements.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210194135	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210194137	If we are now to be honest, perhaps there is also a disagreement here, but we can get closer to that when we discuss more concrete policy proposals. I think we need some other success parameters. And for me, a success parameter will be that we cannot measure after a year that we have established all young people placed well in adult life with education and housing and with some stable people in their network. It's gonna take a few years to secure that. But if you ask me, it is the backdrop on which we are discussing now that we see that the children are very old before they are placed, and thus also typically have several complex issues. This is a huge problem, and we can only turn that around by putting in earlier and putting some children before they are so injured.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210194225	Mrs. Trine Torp, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210194228	Thank you. The last thing about getting them well on in adult life is sweet music in my ears, so I really hope we can get to the end of that. I think the important thing for all of us who are concerned about this is that we focus on the needs of the child and what is best for the child. And we can't know that by generalisation. This can only be done by making a proper study of what the needs of this particular child are, how parents are able to cover it, what help they could get, so that they were better able to do it, etc. etc. It is such a good piece of social work. But there's something I just get a little worried about. Nobody wants to leave these kids behind. What this is about is that the little boy who says that parents should only have two chances, does not also know that parents might not need so many chances if they were given more help. That's what it's all about. But, of course, it is also a question of whether one basically believes that people can develop, including parents. I would like to hear the Minister's answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210194332	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210194334	I believe that people can evolve. One of the things I was working on when I was Minister for Health was precisely some broader courses for prospective parents who had social challenges. For it is clear that if you have a difficult background in your own luggage, it is harder to start up well as a parent than if you have had a trouble-free, resourceful childhood etc. So, of course, people can develop, and of course, as a community, we can help to support the development of some who have difficult conditions in their luggage. My appeal is here that while we have to work with the parents, the child must not pay the price in the meantime. There was also one of these children who said to me: Why do I always have to move school when something new happens to the adults around me? Why aren't it the adults? When my mom gets able to get me home for a while, why am I supposed to move me? In this way, I think we need to get the crab closer to how we make sure that the most important thing, namely calm, security and stability for the child, can be the foundation for everything else that is going on. I agree that part of what we also discussed last time we had an exchange of views is that some of the calmness and stability is achieved only or in some cases it can be achieved if proper cooperation with the biological parents and also support them in their role.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210194457	Mrs. Trine Torp? There is no wish for another brief comment. I would like to thank the Minister and the rapporteur for the questions. This is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210194511	Thank you. Then it was my turn. I have to say that I was a little worried about the Minister's statement anyway. For the Minister says: why are the children so old before they are placed? But could it perhaps be, Minister, because the families have not received the help they should have had at home? Could that be why? This question must also be asked whether there have been any preventive initiatives. This was also why the Danish People's Party wanted to be able to document what had been done in relation to prevention before resorting to placement. I very much agree that, unfortunately, there will always be some children who will have to be placed because they are not being looked after well enough. But I think you should also ask yourself the question of when you are a good parent. Imagine if we had to go through a parental competence study ourselves. Imagine if we had to go through a psychological examination ourselves to prove that we were good parents. There are many who ask me the question: Karina, why are we going through a parental competence study of whether we are good enough parents? But the foster families or the others are not going through a study of whether they can take good care of our children. So there are many things, and I look forward to having this area clarified. This is very important. But I'm gonna tell you a little funny story. The other day I was in Vejle. I visited ULF, the National Association of Developers, and I had a tour of their office rooms. Then we also got to talk about this with kids, and then they say, Karina, we want to have the choice about becoming parents. And then we came into this room, and down in that room there were some baby simulators, so they could be allowed to try out a baby simulator like this if the municipality gave this course. There was someone who had had a baby simulator at home and at least was completely clear that Mom shouldn't be. But it was also just important to her that she had been given the opportunity to make the choice and acknowledge and reach the decision that Mother should certainly not be. So there's also something in relation to prevention in just possibly granting these baby simulators, so you can sort of get an impression of what it's like to be a parent. I think we should look more at family treatments and parenting courses. And then I fully agree that, of course, the child's best interests are the most important. But when I hear that children say that they do not have the right to choose their own sidelines, but that they can have one, I think it is worrying. When I hear from a girl who is 14 years old who just wants to stay with her foster family because she is afraid to come home to her family because she is afraid to be sent on a re-educational journey, but now has to go home to her family, I find it deeply, deeply worrying that we have such a system that says that we have not made any mistakes. No, but who's listening to the girl? Who's listening to the girl who actually wants to stay where she is? Then there are also some who want to stay in their family with help and support. So I think we should make every effort to support the families and children and, above all, the network, because I often hear that the network will not be able to see the child. Of course, the child's right to see his grandmother and grandfather should apply when they want to. Unfortunately, I find that this is often not the case. But I look forward to getting some more knowledge, and then I hope that somehow we can agree on at least some things. I think it will be difficult if the goal itself is more placements, because it is not for the Danish People's Party. I would like to say this out loud from the platform: it is about the right children getting the right help and being placed on a fully documented, enlightened basis. There we can just see that too many of the cases here are filled with flaws and shortcomings, and that leads me to ask the question whether we should also have looked at education in connection with this. However, thank you to the rapporteurs for the debate. I'm glad to have spent my Tuesday evening and afternoon with you. It's been so nice.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210194920	Thank you to the rapporteur. I can see that there is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur from Mrs Camilla Fabricius. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210194928	First of all, thank you very much for a very good debate. That is exactly what the rapporteur said at the end: should I understand that if we now assume that the study provides an overview which shows exactly what the Minister describes, namely that there is a need for more placements and previous placements, then the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party is also ready to do so if and if it is the needs of the children? Isn't that how I'm supposed to hear it?
ParlaMint-DK_20191210195003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210195005	As rapporteur, I say that for the Danish People's Party the family is extremely important and the children are extremely important. For us, it is not about just having more places, and that is just the impression that I get that the Social Democratic Party wants more places. When the Minister says that many children are placed too late, I just ask the question: why are they put too late? Is it because you haven't had help in the family to deal with the challenges that are? We know that, among other things. families who have a child with disabilities also find it difficult to get the help in the family they need to make their family life work. So I'm not gonna lay down on anything... that we're just gonna need more placements. Once again, it is the right children who must be placed on a well-documented basis, and not that they must be placed more in themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210195101	Would Camilla Fabricius like another comment? No. So there were no more questions for the rapporteur. Are there any more rapporteurs who want to get on the floor in another round? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposed adoption will take place on Thursday 12 December 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20191210195122	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 11 December 2019 at 10:00. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
