ParlaMint-DK_20190403130023	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Transport, Building and Housing Minister (Ole Birk Olesen): Bill no. L 221 (Proposal for a Law amending the Road Traffic Code. Tax Minister (Karsten Lauritzen): Bill No. L 222 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the taxation of wages and salaries, etc.) and the VAT Act. The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Minister for Business (Rasmus Jarlov) has informed me that he wishes to do so in accordance with Article 19 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to provide the Folketing with a written statement on business and regulation 2018. R 14). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403130111	The first question is to the Minister for Justice by Mr. Claus Kvist Hansen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403130124	Sir. Claus Kvist Hansen is welcome to read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403130130	Does the Minister consider that control of the rest-time rules in Padborg is being carried out at a satisfactory level?
ParlaMint-DK_20190403130139	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403130140	Thank you for the question. It is incredibly important that we have effective control of heavy vehicles and, among other things, heavy vehicles. Running-rest-time rules. This applies both for road safety reasons, but also with a view to ensuring more general safety in transport. In the 2018 Finance Act, resources were allocated to the police for a targeted control effort to ensure orderly conditions. The police have led the initiative into action targeted four areas: increased weekend checks, control of drivers' weekly rest in the vehicle, infringements derived from parking restrictions at rest places and control of working conditions, taxation and living and working conditions. In addition, as part of the 2019 Finance Act, 5 million have been allocated. kr. in 2019, 10 million; kr. annual in 2020 and 2021 and 15 million; kr. in 2022 to a reinforced heavy duty vehicle intervention in the police. The funds provided shall help to develop the quality of the controls carried out and to increase the control pressure. The government, together with the Danish People's Party, has thus strengthened control through several rounds. I think this has been important and I am pleased with the agreements we have made with each other. And with the resources we have given to the area, it is also my expectation that the police will carry out effective and good controls within the framework.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403130307	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403130308	Thank you. We fully agree that there is a need for increased control in a wide range of areas. And, of course, I am pleased that the Minister describes in such detail where this increased pressure of control is to be put. However, the reason why I am asking the question is that the Minister of Justice has recently given me a written answer to a question where I ask how many charges there have been for violation of driving rest-time regulations in Padborg in 2018. There I got an answer that said 17 violations. Padborg is probably the center of trucks in Denmark.I do not think that is an exaggeration.And it is on the basis of countless, I dare say, inquiries I have received from drivers and from wondering citizens and from God and every man that Padborg was patched up with legally and illegally parked trucks, especially on weekends, that I ask my question. Then it may be surprising that there have only been 17 charges. So, with all due respect: 17 charges in such a large area suggest in my world that this task of control has simply not been taken very seriously, perhaps almost not carried out at all. Then there have been reports, let me ask in this way that some heavy duty car officers have not felt, what should we say, completely equipped to go to the task of checking the driving-rest-time regulations. I would therefore like to ask the Minister's initial answer: has the police now had a precise, bell-clear, water-tight procedure for checking the driving-rest-time regulations?
ParlaMint-DK_20190403130453	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403130453-2	I'd be very surprised if they didn't. It's new to me if it's such that you're not completely up to date, because we have some special devices for it. We have some special people dedicated to it. The charges we have to hold on to are registered violations of the driving-rest-time regulations. There's plenty of others, too. I agree that 17 doesn't sound like much. As I think I also got written in the answer, there are a large number of cases currently registered with crime scene code or crime scene post number 0000, and therefore there may well be a higher number of charges when you get a little into it. And, of course, we must be aware of that; I very much agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403130537	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403130539	Now to stay in that what should we say?Jyske way of communicating: 17 doesn't sound like much no, it almost sounds like you haven't actually lifted this task. And in my ears, and it's not a criticism of the police... it sounds like it's been a coincidence... and that the people you've accused of are some you've just brought along while you've been checking something else. That's what it sounds like in my head. I would also like to point out that these reports, which I have heard, that we did not know exactly how to go to the task, are only reports. I would, in fact, like to be sent the written instructions that the police must have on how to proceed with this task. There's gotta be some kind of checklist, some kind of manual or something like that. In short, however, the monitoring of rest periods is also part of the fight against social dumping. So I simply have to hear the Minister: when is it that we are seriously going in and taking this battle against social dumping? Because that is what this is all about, and if effective checks were carried out especially on the driving-rest-time regulations, it would be the case that there would not be an incentive for foreign drivers to stay in Padborg, in Denmark, but that they would be forced to drive home to keep their rest.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403130656	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403130658	I'd like to see if there's such an instruction. It is part of the education that you have to learn how to do it. But I will look into it, because I certainly assume that the special, specialised units we have are fully aware of how to do this. The good thing about having a unitary police is that they don't only find one thing they find many things. Well, we can see that the police find a lot of things when they do these controls. Then I would say that the government is obviously obscene about this, but I suppose that is why we have now set aside extra money for the area, together with some financial laws. Now we have to make sure that we come all the way around, because the police have only one interest, and that is to have all those who break the law taken. I would like to guarantee that that is the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403130742	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403130743	Well, of course I am glad that the Minister recognises that we agree that funds should be allocated to this area, and I also hope that the Minister will agree that the funds that are then agreed should go entirely to strengthen this particular control. I still miss the fact that there is a whistle in the judge's whistle and that it is said that the fight against social dumping is now so urgent that it should also be fought in parking lots, in rest places and on the road network, and where else it might take place. And I think there's a lot of people sitting there, and maybe they're a little puzzled that it could take so long. Let me put it this way: with a figure showing that 17 charges were made last year, I hope that the Minister is fully aware that, of course, we in the Danish People's Party will hold one minister in our ears at any time to ensure that this fight is also fought where it is going, not only here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403130843	Thank you. Last answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403130844	I fully agree with the questioner, and I fully acknowledge that the Danish People's Party has put this on the agenda, and I also believe that is why we have seen finance law after finance law, where this area has been strengthened. And I must guarantee that I have no doubt that this is what is wanted, and we are also aware, of course, that the checks will then have to be carried out and, of course, they will. Now it is specifically driving-rest-time that we are talking about today, after all, it is a broad palette that we are examining and now it is just Padborg that has been asked about. But I'm obscene, and this, of course, gives me a chance to go home and ask you a few questions after the séance we've had here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403130918	Thank you. That concludes the question. The next question is to the Minister for Finance of Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403130925	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403130928	Thank you, and the question is: does the government intend to take advantage of the opportunity established at the Euro Summit in December 2018 to keep the eurozone budget open for the participation of ERM II countries, that is, Denmark, and thus to include Denmark in the eurozone budget?
ParlaMint-DK_20190403130948	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403130949	Thank you for the question. I would like to start by saying a little about the eurozone budget in general before I come back to reply to that. After all, it is a number of countries that have a dream that their own economic problems can be resolved by the fact that the euro zone only has a large budget that can then support those countries that do not carry out the necessary economic reforms. And one can almost hear the way I put it, that I am strongly opposed to believing that such a eurozone budget could be a solution to those problems. I believe that countries themselves should carry out the necessary adjustment of their own policies, rather than relying on Germany and other countries to do well enough, and not to carry out reforms in their own country. That is why there has been opposition in several places to such a eurozone budget, how large it should be, how grandiose it should be, and what it should be used for, etc. But it was decided in December to try to continue working on the idea that if there is to be a eurozone budget, what will it look like? And that is what you are doing at the moment with different methods and ways, and there are many different ideas. Some of the ideas are, in fact, just going in together and making some pools to make infrastructure investments so that if there is an economic downturn, a setback in Europe again, then we can get pools from there to initiate necessary initiatives in the field of infrastructure and thus keep our hands on employment. A little like we ourselves did in Denmark in 2009, 2010 and 2011, when we were hit by a financial crisis. There we did something similar. That is why it is still the case that Denmark keeps a door open to restricting a eurozone budget to something that is so narrow and sensible in itself, and I cannot deny that Denmark may choose to join in. However, I think I indicated in my introduction that this is not something that I am immediately in favour of.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403131149	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403131150	I was a little surprised when I was reading that report, because now I have heard the head of the Finance Minister, the Prime Minister, repeatedly in the Committee on European Affairs, arguing that this eurozone budget was a very bad idea and that it was an expression of the fact that the European Union was so divided into a pool of A countries which were full-blood members, those who had abolished their national currency, and then a pool of B countries, which were so slightly in the draw and did not really want to go on. It is, of course, a view that we have shared with the Prime Minister completely, namely that it is a problem that, like some countries, choose to walk for themselves and then say that now we are just driving the shop, and all you hangouts can then sit on the sidelines while we run the shop. That is why I was also surprised that this announcement had been made after the summit of the eurozone countries that a door was kept open for Denmark to be part of this, because assuming Denmark as a part of it, one would also assume that Denmark will be involved in paying the bill for it. I guess it can't be a party that takes place under the conditions that you can just come to the table without contributing yourself. This is usually a coincidence within the European Union. Since the whole backdrop behind this was, of course, Macron's idea, as the Minister of Finance also explains, that there should be some others and help France, it was simply difficult for me to see and understand what concrete interest Denmark should have in participating in the eurozone budget. So I would just like to know from the Minister for Finance what prospects the Minister for Finance sees in this. Is this something in which Denmark is going to play a constructive role, or will Denmark still have the attitude that it is basically a bad idea for the EU to be divided up in this way in euro countries and non-euro countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20190403131354	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403131355	I think it is a bad idea if we get a further division into euro countries and non-euro countries. I believe that the European Union must work together with all the 27 countries remaining in the European Union, unfortunately, in order to get as close a cooperation as possible. One of the challenges of this dream of a eurozone budget is that they say that it must not be a budget that transfers money from one country to another, because some of the countries in the euro zone know what is going to happen here. It will happen that some countries will refrain from making reforms so that other countries will have to pay their bills, and that is why they say that it should almost be the kind of savings that can then be drawn on afterwards. Then it is that it is starting to be really, really strange what is really the idea behind it, and that is why we have been sceptical all the way around a eurozone budget.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403131444	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403131446	What you can get to grips with is the perspective of this. Because there is no doubt that the fact that Denmark is now specifically referred to is what we are doing, because we are the only ERM II country that is part of this, is also setting in motion a perspective on whether Denmark's direction is still going to become part of the euro at some point, after a referendum, of course. It can of course be seen that the government is trying to pull us in that direction, now this, that is to say, to participate in the eurozone budget. Is it the case that we have a small referendum lurking up the Finance Minister's sleeve?
ParlaMint-DK_20190403131525	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403131526	No, it's just my wristwatch that lurks up my sleeve, and not so much else. We will come back to what ERM II is on the next question, because I do not think that everyone who follows is fully aware of that. I just want to say that I think it is a bad idea to have a eurozone budget. All the ideas that will be discussed when we have extended the Eurogroup meeting, where Denmark is sitting at the table, are in the wrong direction, I think. But there are still a few countries peeking about something that might well be sensible, it's just small and weak voices. And that's why I don't close the door completely, because if it were to change and there was a shift in the direction, it might be that something might come along that might be interesting for Denmark. It just doesn't look like that, and that is why my prediction today will be that Denmark will not be part of a eurozone budget.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403131614	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403131615	So, I think it is very rare for the Folketing to see that such a very categorical statement is made by a minister, that something is a bad idea, and that it is then followed by: but Denmark must nevertheless be involved. For me, it just seems very strange that we are now part of this eurozone budget, or at least have the opportunity to be part of it, but that it is a bad idea to be part of it. Well, then why did we get there? Why have we ended up with that opportunity to be part of that budget? Insofar as I can understand the Minister, the chance that this will be something that can be used for something for Denmark in isolation is very modest.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403131655	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403131656	That's how I don't think we're gonna end up here. However, there is no clarification of what the eurozone budget is landing on. And I have seen bigger political clusters before than having a budget in one direction, and then suddenly it goes in a different direction. And that is why I say that the theoretical possibility that it should land on something that we would like to be part of is that I do not completely close the door. But I do not like a eurozone budget; I think it is the wrong direction. I think that the countries themselves should take responsibility for cleaning up their own economy instead of thinking that they can just lean on the strongest economies in Europe and then bet that they will deliver such a strong economy that you do not have to keep your own house in order in your own country.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403131736	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. No, I'm sorry. The question is over. But there is a new question for the Minister of Finance of Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403131747	Go ahead and read.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403131750	We could go on for hours, I'm sure. The next question is: has the government itself asked for the possibility of ERM II countries being included in the eurozone budget, and if so, what is the reason why the government might have sought this option?
ParlaMint-DK_20190403131804	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403131805	That then gives me the opportunity to say something about ERM II. After all, a number of countries have chosen to have a single currency, which means that their exchange rates are locked up on each other, as the currency is the same. Although there may be a national mark on coins etc., it is the same currency. Then there is another group of EU countries that have floating currencies, either because their economy is not strong enough for them to be closely associated with the euro or because they have chosen it politically. One example of the latter is Sweden, where the economy is strong enough, but they have chosen to have a floating exchange rate with all the risks it poses to the Swedish economy. And then there's ERM II. These are the countries that have an economy that is strong enough to be in a close bond, plus/minus 21⁄4 per cent, around the euro rate, but which are not fully members of the euro. At the moment it is Denmark. We are the only ERM II country. However, there are some countries outside the euro area which do not have an economy that is strong enough but which dream of joining the euro in the long term. It's the country's own choice to have that dream. Some countries see ERM II as the waiting room; that is, it is the first step towards entering the euro zone. And then they want to go from being a floating exchange rate country to entering ERM II. And some of those countries might have a wish that ERM II should also be linked to some of the other elements. I am not going to refer to meetings at all, I have not been to meetings about who wanted what, but it has not been Denmark who came to the table with a particular desire for the ERM II countries to have a special place in the discussion about the eurozone budget or not. That is why I have almost said that other countries have brought that offer to the table.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403132006	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403132008	The fact is interesting that other countries have a dream to do, as Denmark has done, that Denmark has been greasy into this. My concern is simply that, as the eurozone budget is originally intended at least, it is a budget which benefits countries which are economically disadvantaged and which need passive transfers from other countries, while it is to the disadvantage of those countries which, as such, have order in their own economy. That is also why we have seen in the course of the decision on the eurozone budget that the northern European countries, in other words the Netherlands, Denmark and Sweden and, in part, Germany, but still not, have opposed the idea that we should have that eurozone budget. This makes it all a very absurd thing, because those countries that want to benefit from it want the budget, and those that do not want to benefit from it, but who just have to contribute to it, do not want that budget. I just have to ask the Minister for Finance, and I have actually asked a few questions before: where does the Minister for Finance see this going? Is this really a budget that is going down a one-way street where there is a wall at the end and where you cannot turn? I have to say that I find it strange that we are having a situation where the eurozone countries are closing down on each other, but in a way that means that those eurozone countries that traditionally contribute will only contribute even more. I simply do not have the imagination to imagine what it was that was supposed to do, that Denmark had an interest in being in that company, in addition to the fact that there are some parties in here at Christiansborg who would like Denmark to replace its currency, the crown, with the euro, and then it is clear that, of course, you are part of a eurozone budget.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403132217	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403132219	Our challenge is rather that all the positions we have on the eurozone budget are not getting rid of at the most important meeting, because there is no Denmark. Indeed, we are not a member of the euro zone, and that is the choice we have made in Denmark, but it also means that we cannot have the same clear voice in the debate, because the debate ultimately leads to a decision among the eurozone countries on whether or not they want a budget. I can warn against this, and I do so loudly and probably also irritate some of my colleagues who are not from a eurozone country. That is also why, I would like to repeat, what was concluded in the summit declaration was that the ERM II countries would be able to participate on a voluntary basis, and I doubt that Denmark would want to participate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403132306	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403132307	But then I would really like to ask the Minister for Finance what interest some countries have in this. To this extent, the Minister of Finance can respond without revealing what some countries have thought. What are some countries on the way to becoming part of ERM II?
ParlaMint-DK_20190403132331	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403132332	After all, there are both countries which have a realistic desire to enter ERM II and countries which have had an unrealistic desire. I have helped send a clear signal, for example, to a single EU country that they should refrain from making an application because it would end up with a clear 'no' vote. But I also know that some of the new countries from Eastern Europe have got their own economy going so much that they now have a legitimate hope of being able to become a ERM II country, that is to say have such a strong economy and be so deeply anchored in Europe that they can stay within a range of plus/minus 21⁄4 per cent. of the exchange rate. It is not for me to say which countries wanted what. I am just saying that I can see some European countries that are new members of the European Union that have recently gained such a strong economy that I think they can be on their way in.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403132426	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403132429	I also find it problematic that the Minister for Finance has repeatedly stressed in the Committee on European Affairs Denmark's desire for budgetary restraint in the EU context. Now there is a desire for a special budget for some countries; a wish which has been met and which I understand should be discussed further in June, that is to say on the other side of a European Parliament elections it is very practical. How does the Minister of Finance feel about the possibility of maintaining that line in relation to budgetary restraint when we see more and more initiatives going through the European Committee, which is costly, and now this, in other words a eurozone budget, which also has to be provided with special funds? In other words, it is even realistic to imagine that the agenda that the government has in relation to 1.0 per cent. By bni, is going to last?
ParlaMint-DK_20190403132522	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403132524	Yes, I believe it does, but it requires us to keep on holding on to the allies we have, and among other things. That is why I have also taken the initiative that this week we will meet in the circle of those countries that insist that the EU budget should also be on a forward-looking level of 1.0 per cent. It is important that we stick to it. The discussion about the eurozone budget is a discussion about whether it should be within the framework that is or outside the framework that is and, of course, there will be a number of the countries with which we most agree. There are also euro countries that say that, if there is to be a budget, it must be within the framework that exists. So I am in no way giving up the fight to stick to a budgetary-restrictive line in the European Union. We are going to lack Britain's voice at the table, that is certainly, but then the rest of us will have to fight harder.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403132614	Thank you, and the question is over. The next question is also to the Minister for Finance. Sir. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403132621	Go ahead and read.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403132624	Thank you, President. Health Economist Kjeld Møller Pedersen, in Politiken on 27 March, has called the economy of the government's health reform a mixture of assumptions about partly questionable administrative savings and the re-use of old money can the Minister confirm on this basis that the financing of the government's health reform agreement is financed by non-concrete savings and already allocated funds?
ParlaMint-DK_20190403132654	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403132655	I am very pleased that we are now again discussing, I think, the third Wednesday in a row the government's proximity fund. I am, because this is just an opportunity to reiterate what the proximity fund will mean for future health care. It will mean that we will have some 35 new health houses created, so that some of the tasks that are currently in the hospitals can be moved closer to the citizens. We will create 20 new emergency preparednesss, which will make it easier to get first aid to Danes who need it. We are creating modern multi-medical practices, and we are raising the competences around the municipalities that need to have an increasingly active and central role in health care. We get the opportunity to provide better conditions for psychiatry, and we get the opportunity for more Danes to go directly to treatment with a physiotherapist instead of having to have referral from their own doctor. It is a large number of good initiatives that help to make the Danish health service stronger. It is then financed by a special mixture: some of it is financed by the investment council created from 2021 onwards; something is financed by making use of the wealth that exists in Danish regions today; some of it is financed by taking funds that are Yes, so it is our assessment that a total saving of 250 million can be made. kr. Annually from 2020 onwards. It is true that it is not distributed among the individual financial law clauses, but it is exactly the same form of financing that the former S-led government made when the business school agreement was signed at the time. That is why, in the words of the then government, it has been said that it is a very concrete and secure financing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403132900	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403132903	First of all, I would like to thank you for the last part of the Minister's reply, which was an answer to what I asked. The first part must, of course, be over every time the Minister has the opportunity to do so. Well, it is sometimes the case that you want to get rid of your messages. But I would like to delve into that figure for the funds released, because if I have understood correctly through the press, then what is called administrative expenditure on non-health tasks is released. It's in 2021 288 million. kr. and by 2022 430 million kr., and from them should then be deducted from the administrative expenses relating to non-health tasks which continue ~ if I understand it correctly. That is to say, the administrative expenditure which will continue and which will amount to 175 million will have to be deducted. kr. a year. At any rate, I would like to have the Minister confirm that this is the case. But there is also the very obvious question: what are some specific tasks on which these resources can be saved? What are some administrative tasks that are not related to health? Is this a question that some of the tasks that are being carried out today really have to be solved by considerably fewer employees? In other words, are there some of the employees who are currently working on these tasks that are not supposed to be doing so in the future? I also think it is important for the people who are working on these administrative tasks today to know whether there are redundancies. That is a recital which I know, for example, has also been made by HK.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403133107	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403133109	It will be the case that part of the savings on the overall 1.5 billion. kr. over the period comes by no longer paying wages or party subsidies because we are abolishing the political level. Another part of this total was 270 million. kr. A year's time comes by going in and looking at what administrative savings you can find in the non-health field. There we have said that the savings on the soil pollution part must go towards increased efforts in relation to the generational pollution. However, in many of the other areas it is possible to make a saving both administratively in relation to the very increasing administrative costs that have been incurred in the Danish regions, but also in relation to the loss of tasks. It will be the case, for example, that we have to deal with this problem. In future, public transport alone will have an administration located in the municipalities and in the transport companies, rather than having one in the municipalities, the transport companies and the regions. It will also be the case that there is a saving in development tasks because we are completely removing the development task from the regions in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403133214	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403133215	In other words, if I understand the Minister correctly, that means that they are 250 million. kr., which comes from savings in the field of administration, should mainly be found within what the Minister calls development • it could, as I remember it, be such a thing as cross-border cooperation and such elements • and then by cutting something away in transport. That doesn't sound quite realistic, I must say, sir. Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403133245	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403133246	I could see before that the President stood up because I had no more speaking time. So let me just address what was just specifically asked about. In other words, we will not save on cross-border cooperation. On the contrary, we have written very precisely in the text of the agreement that we are going to maintain both cross-border cooperation in the four municipalities of South Jutland, but also what goes from Lolland-Falster to Germany. We're going to look at the metropolitan area to maintain it. In other words, there are some regions that have allocated quite a large amount of money in their 2019 budgets to the development task that they no longer need. There are questions about public transport... I'm sorry, now is the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403133327	You can also see it on the little lamp that's on the desk. The Minister for Finance Jo, but I am looking at the questioner). Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403133332	Of course, I always appreciate eye contact with the Minister; I would like to confirm that. Nevertheless, I would say that it still sounds of an extremely large amount, and if it is the case that the Minister is so nagging about this being possible, then I really cannot understand why we are not simply presenting a more specific account for this. In other words, if I understand correctly, some relatively precise amounts have actually been put in place. When you say 288 million... kr. in 2021 and 430 million; kr. In 2022, I guess it's because you figured it out.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403133410	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403133412	I don't quite recognize those 430 million. kr., but there are also many numbers that have gone back and forth. So let us then clarify where the 430 million. kr. is from. We are just looking at what an administration is today, also in terms of serviceing the political link, also in terms of serviceing the elected representatives who are there. What kind of administration is this in connection with public transport? What kind of administration is this in relation to pools lying out there? What kind of administration are we putting into the Ministry of Culture, where they already have employees working with this kind of thing? And when we look at it, we think it is very realistic to be able to make a saving of 270 million on non-health tasks. kr. annually from 2022 onwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403133500	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jakob Silverhøj with a question for the Minister for Children and Social Affairs. Pernille Skipper is deleted as an enquirer of the question being asked now.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403133517	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403133520	In the view of the Minister, should there be standards in the day-care institutions that allow the teaching staff time to give care to all children and that ensure that there are always at least two employees present in the individual room, or does the Minister think it is reasonable that a single employee is alone in the room with a large group of children?
ParlaMint-DK_20190403133539	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403133541	Thank you. First of all, I would like to stress that it makes a great impression on me when I hear about the experiences of parents and staff, and I would like to make it quite clear: there must of course be good standards in the municipalities, it is the responsibility of the municipalities to ensure the good standards, and it is their responsibility to ensure that it is safe to go to work and that the children are safe, from the time they are handed in, until they are picked up. In relation to the question of whether there should be a certain distribution in the rooms, I can reply very quickly that I do not think that we should legislate completely in the individual rooms. The actual organisation of the standards in the daily offers takes place locally, and I do not believe that Christiansborg is the best at knowing what is best in the individual institutions. There may be institutions where it makes great sense to have more educators. It may be an institution which is located in a residential area with socially vulnerable children, where we just know from research that precisely those children are profiting from the fact that there are more educators. It may also be other factors that may lead to cooperation between the institutions, or that there is a need for more educators here. And I'm not in the mood to take that responsibility away from the locals.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403133656	Here you go, sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403133657	I think that what made the strongest impression on me in the television documentary everyone is talking about, namely the documentary who cares for our children?• the photos of crèche children sitting all alone in the living room, because the only employee who was working in the living room was out changing diapers on a child. Well, there were kids sitting all alone in the living room. In my view, this is not an isolated incident, for it could be said that this may be what it would be, but in the same broadcast you could hear other staff telling that they regularly experienced being alone with 13-15 children or more, and in a study that the BUPL trade union has done, where they have asked 8,000 educators, three-quarters of the teachers in the study replied that on a random day when you went in and asked them about everyday life, they had experienced being alone with the children and that they were on average alone with a group of 17 children and that they were on average alone with the entire group of children for almost an hour. I would like to say that I understand that the Minister does not think we should have too tight a regulatory framework on this, but does the Minister not agree that it is completely irresponsible that the staffing is so poor that it is necessary for employees to be alone for so long with children? And is it not the case that, as legislators, although the municipalities naturally have a responsibility for this area, we also have a major responsibility to prevent that practice from continuing?
ParlaMint-DK_20190403133847	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403133848	Well, the standards have to be in order. That is also why I am reacting as I do when I experience what I told you about yesterday at the consultation, namely that a citizens' group writes to me that they are experiencing hearing protection, that is to say hearing protection, it screams to heaven. It's just not okay. And I just think it's hard to get out of that situation. What was exactly wrong in that municipality was that you planned with a massive overcrowding, because you were thinking about whether to build a new daycare centre, and while you were thinking about whether to build a new daycare centre, you actually forgot that you should focus on the children in the meantime.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403133926	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403133927	The union FOA has made a study that gives roughly the same result as the one I referred to and that BUPL had made. What may be particularly interesting about the FOA study is that it also asks to what extent it was planned for an employee to be alone and in 45%. Of all the crèches, alone work was scheduled, and in 60%. of all kindergarten groups there was single work scheduled. Is it not quite unacceptable that we should have such low standards that adults should be left alone with a large group of children?
ParlaMint-DK_20190403134004	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403134005	That certainly tells me that we need to have more vision of the matter. Because it may well be that in a number of the studies that have been carried out, 8,000 have been asked, while the response rates are quite low. In fact, in some of the studies we are down to 16 per cent, which is very low, and then questions are naturally asked about validity. That is why I have called and invited a number of stakeholders, FOA, FOLA, KL, BUPL, to a meeting next week just to have a larger study done, where we look at both the number of hands in the day institutions and a number of other parameters along the way throughout the day, so that we get a proper knowledge, because of course there must be good standards out in the day institutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403134050	Last question, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403134052	I think it is excellent that organisations, both parents and staff, should be invited to congratulate them. But I would like to focus on the consequences of the fact that there is alone work. In the same study that I referred to and that the FOA had published, one in three employees working with the 0-2-year-olds said that they experience daily or several times a week that they are not able to provide the children with the necessary care. I would therefore like to ask the Minister in the end whether he understands that on Saturday parents are protesting against the conditions in the institutions, in other words, when the standards are so low, they are protesting for minimum standards, in other words a statutory ceiling on the number of children per year. grown-up? And will the Minister not give a commitment to parents that minimum standards will be introduced in the country's day care institutions?
ParlaMint-DK_20190403134145	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403134146	I would like to start by saying quite clearly that I think it is fantastic that parents go on the streets on Saturday. I think it is a very good backlash, and I am responding to it and welcoming it, because it is great to see that the children's area actually gets such a big voice. It has become high police, and it has been in recent years. Even if we have to have statutory minimum standards, I am more in doubt because I am worried about the municipal. But I just have to say that it may well be that I have not promised too much, but we have nevertheless prioritised 2 billion. kr. to the day-to-day business, while I have been a minister, of which 1 billion. kr. It is even more than what has been promised by the left, where you have been out saying you want minimum standards, but you have not delivered on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403134231	Thank you. That concludes the question. The next is for the Minister of Employment. Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403134238	Go ahead and read.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403134242	Thank you very much, President. And I see that the Minister is in place. The question is this: is the Minister satisfied that not so much as a penny has been paid out to foreign workers from the Labour Market Posting Fund, and what will the Minister do about it? The reason for the question is, of course, that in 2016 a so-called Posting Fund was established. It was used to cover wage claims from foreign workers against their foreign workers...
ParlaMint-DK_20190403134317	We need to get the minister to answer. Finn Sørensen Sorry, I just wanted to motivate it a little more). Yeah, but it'll come later. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403134318	Thank you for that and I can confirm that I am present in the Chamber. I don't think there's any alternative to that. I think it is important to say that a penny has not been paid out from the labour market fund for secondment, that is, from what is called the AFU. And I would like to say that it is not necessarily an end in itself that money should be paid out. The AFU was established in 2016 to support the trade-related cases in which an posted employee is caught because the employer cannot or will not pay wage claims established by professional law. If the professional treatment and, therefore, the case proceed as intended, it is the case that the employer pays the employee the salary he or she is entitled to, and then the AFU is not at all at risk. In fact, I think it is a good thing that the employer pays what he or she owes himself. That's how it should be. And if the employer does not pay, the AFU can step in and help the individual employee. I think it is a good thing that we in Denmark have secured the posted employee in this way, but it should not be the starting point that it is the AFU that pays the posted employee's wages. It has to be the individual employer. Then it is also true that an agreement was reached. That is why it is also important to emphasise that that agreement needs to be evaluated, and it will be here in 2019. This provides ample opportunity to discuss with the social partners as well, how that construction has been and whether there are any things that should be taken into account in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403134457	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403134459	Thank you. After all, we fully agree that it should be the individual employer who pays the salary which he has to pay and which has been agreed with the worker concerned or through a collective agreement or whatever. However, the fund was set up because the social partners agreed with me that there are far too many examples of foreign companies posting in this country, as it is said from other EU countries, running from the bill. After all, Danish trade unions have raised a number of cases against such companies, and that is why the fund was set up, and it was sold with the fact that we could now help some Eastern workers to obtain their debts. But history shows that not one person has received anything, despite the fact that there have actually been 400 inquiries. Does the Minister think that this is an expression of the fact that there is no cheating and that all foreign workers get the money they need? If that's true, we could shut down the fund. Or does the Minister think that there is something wrong with the rules, so that they need to be changed so that foreign workers can get their debts more easily? Or does the Minister agree with the Enhedslisten that this merely shows that this is a completely indifferent measure and that we should do something that was much more effective, namely to introduce chain liability, which the same EU directive that governs this, says that we should actually do?
ParlaMint-DK_20190403134627	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403134628	Thank you. As I said, it is clear that no money has been paid out from the Social Fund for Posted Persons, but that is not the same as saying that it is a failure. For what must now be decisive, and that is also what Mr. Finn Sørensen emphasizes that it must be the individual company that is responsible for the individual employee. But I am completely open to the fact that an evaluation must now be carried out. After all, it will take place here during 2019 and then we will have to discuss whether further things are needed in this regard when it takes place.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403134708	Thank you. I think the Minister is slipping off on the issue here. If the Minister is quite satisfied that a crown is not paid out because he then takes it as an expression that there is no problem then we might as well put the fund down, and then there is no reason to talk about it any more. So it's like the answer that's missing. Is the Minister satisfied that nothing is being paid out? It almost sounds like it, and we might as well shut down the fund. What is the Minister's position on this? Does the Minister think that everything is in order for foreign companies to get their debts from the workers employed there from Poland or Latvia or where they come from? If that's the case, we might as well shut down the fund. Or do the Minister, like me, have a clear conviction that everything is not in order and that it could then be that there was something wrong with the rules or with the construction as such? That is what I would like the Minister's answer to. I haven't really had that so far. It's gonna be shot out for some evaluation at some point.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403134809	We'll see if it comes in the last round here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403134811	I know that answer has come in the way it is. But now you don't have to argue with the questioner. After all, we are faced with an evaluation which must now take place here, and that is why I think it is very sensible to wait for it, and then we must discuss with the social partners what the structure has been like. I admit that there are still problems with the Danish labour market. What must be crucial is that companies pay. As far as those who do not comply with those rules are concerned, it is the companies that have to pay. It is not necessarily the fund, but the fund has been set up so that, in the situation where it may be necessary, we can go in and cover the expenses of the individual employee. I think that makes sense. Then we can discuss whether there should be any other mechanisms than those that are, and I am quite willing to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403134853	The last round, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403134856	Thank you. Then we got so far that the Minister is willing to discuss other solutions. Then I would like to point out straight away a clear solution instead of such a fund, which probably does not work according to what was the declared intention of it, and it was to follow what is actually contained in the relevant EU directive, namely that when it comes to the construction sector, the countries must introduce chain responsibilities, so that a more far-reaching system can also be introduced than is proposed by the Commission. Is this the kind of solution the Minister is willing to look at?
ParlaMint-DK_20190403134928	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403134929	I do not think I want to anticipate the discussion we are going to have, and it is not necessarily certain that I am going to have this discussion. It must be the Minister for Employment who, after the summer break or during the autumn, will discuss the follow-up to the agreement made between the social partners. That is why I do not think it makes any sense now to start this discussion. We should like to return to that and then we will have to see who has the political responsibility at that time.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403134959	Thank you. The next question is to the Minister for Health by Erik Christensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403135006	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403135009	Thank you. I'm gonna read the question. Will the Minister guarantee that Nyborg Hospital, Svendborg Hospital and the Hospital Unit Ærø will not be closed as a result of the health reform, just as the Prime Minister has guaranteed it for the country's 21 emergency hospitals?
ParlaMint-DK_20190403135026	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403135027	Thank you for the question, which I have had a number of times before in various versions, and so I have already answered it once in this Chamber, where the questioner also asked it, namely on 20 February, when we discussed practically the same question. But I'll be happy to respond. I replied at the time with reference to page 57 of the motion, where you could see the matrics of both Ærø, Svendborg and Nyborg drawn into the health community around Nyborg Hospital, and I also replied that the government's proposal for a health reform does not change the planned structure in the hospital area. I have also replied in writing to the colleagues of the questioner on several occasions, namely that the agreement on the reform of health does not change the established hospital structure, both for the 21 emergency hospitals and for the other hospitals. This is also directly apparent from the agreement and now I quote: 'The negotiating parties agree that the health reform does not change the established hospital structure. ▪ For the questioner's information, see page 26 and page 33, where there is also a fine map, where all the materials for example. Nyborg, Ærø, Svendborg and OUH are part of the Funen health community. The very establishment of the 21 health communities is, after all, about ensuring closeness and coherence for patients, ensuring that the activities of the municipality, psychiatry, hospital and general practice are linked more closely so that we do not see that one in five patients falls into the Bermuda triangle between the different actors. It is also important to say that the 21 health communities will also be a binding framework for stronger cooperation, in which we also increase quality. So no, the government has no plans nor with the agreement we have made with the Danish People's Party to close neither Nyborg Hospital, Svendborg Hospital nor the hospital unit Ærø. I hope we can clarify that today, so that the questioner and his fellow party members do not keep running around creating insecurity among patients across the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403135235	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403135236	Thank you. I have to say now that when I ask, it is because I often get this question on the street in Nyborg in particular, and it is actually the case that the citizens are not particularly comfortable with the answer that has come so far, and that is why the phrase 'as a result of the health reform' is also included in the question. What the government has done right now and here is to draw a map of what health care looks like now, and the situation we will be facing in the future, if this agreement becomes a reality, is that we will have a new situation where there are others as I read it, and otherwise the Minister will have to correct me to decide the structure of the Danish health service. That is why my question is: who should decide on the future, how many hospitals there should be and where the hospitals should be, for example. On Funen. Who's gonna decide in the future if this deal goes through?
ParlaMint-DK_20190403135336	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403135338	I just have to say that when there are citizens in Nyborg who may be in doubt, it is because the questioner and the questioner's party colleagues keep running around creating insecurity across the country, and I think that is simply a completely new low point that we see in the Socialist Group, where patients are taken hostage and walking around towards better knowledge, and despite the fact that it is black and white both in the original proposal and in the agreement we have made with the Danish People's Party, namely that there is no change in the hospital structure, and that this applies both to the 21 emergency hospitals and to the other hospitals. Yet the Social Democrats are taking the patients hostage, and I must say that I think is a new low point for the Socialists. Therefore, I must also say that the health reform is of course about strengthening the close health care system, it is certainly not about closing hospitals, and when I visited Nyborg Hospital last week, we also had a good dialogue about what it really is for some functions one could benefit from strengthening in the near health care system, also on Funen, in Nyborg and Svendborg, and on Ærø.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403135431	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403135432	Yeah, but I notice that and I think that's why the uncertainty and insecurity are still gone there is that the minister didn't answer the question. So now I am trying again: in the future health service, if this agreement becomes a reality, who is it who is making the decisions about how many hospitals there should be and who might close on Funen? Now I'm just using Funen as an example. I still have no answer to that from the Minister, and that is why the insecurity is with me, and that is also why the insecurity is there with, among others. the citizens of Nyborg. But I hope I can get a clear answer now in the second round.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403135504	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403135505	I think it has to be said that if there is insecurity anywhere, it is because the Socialists are touring around creating fear and taking patients hostage. And I just have to say, I think that's a low point. I also have to say that when you come from Funen and are a socialist politician and know the whole foreplay that was, up to the 2011 election campaign, when the then Social Democratic Chairman and a Funen MP went in and issued guarantees for Svendborg Hospital's emergency reception, which you then ran away from, even if you had signed it, the credibility of the Social Democrats' persistence in relation to Funen lies in a very small place. On the other hand, I can say from the government and from the Danish People's Party that we are not going to close hospitals with the health reform, and this also applies to the Funen hospitals.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403135551	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403135553	I'm gonna try again because I haven't actually gotten an answer to my question. So now I'm trying again: Who is it with this initiative that you have made with the Danish People's Party, in the future, decides how many hospitals are going to be on Funen, and if there is not to be the number that is today, there may be more or less who decides? It is relatively simple to answer, because you have made the agreement yourself. That must be made clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403135618	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403135619	Yes, and we also discussed that on 20 February, when the questioner had the same question, and the answer is the same. When I put a little effort into telling the questioner that there will be no closed hospitals, either in Nyborg or in Svendborg or the hospital unit Ærø, it is because the questioner keeps touring the country with his fellow party members and creating insecurity and taking the patients hostage. And I just need to say that I think is a new low point on the part of the Socialists. With the establishment of the health communities it will be largely the municipal councils through mayors and health committee chairmen who will have a seat in the health communities and who will also have a vote in the future. The questioner himself has been mayor of Nyborg in the past, so if you think that the presence of the mayors will make it easier to close hospitals, then I think you as a Social Democrat need to reconsider your point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403135713	Thank you. The next question is to the Minister for Health by Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403135720	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403135723	Thank you. Does the Minister agree that with the Health Agreement of 26 March 2019, it will be up to the Board of Health Services in Denmark to decide whether all or part of Amager Hospital should be terminated?
ParlaMint-DK_20190403135734	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403135736	Thank you for the question. And to that I can say that no, it won't be. We can then come back to that. But before that, I think it is essential, like saying that the scaremongering that the questioner is touring around on Amager and on Facebook, which has just been campaigning that Amager Hospital might be in danger of closing, is surely a new social democratic low-point, just as I have just spoken to the fellow party of the questioner. I really think it is a pity that this is the level reached in the debate by the Socialists. Amager Hospital, which is part of Hvidovre-Amager Hospital, will not be changed as part of the health reform. It is also clear in black and white from the agreement we have made with the Danish People's Party that there is no change in the hospital structure as a result of the health reform, either for the 21 emergency hospitals or for the other hospitals. So I actually think that the questioner should perhaps use this opportunity to deal with the facts. In relation to Healthcare Denmark, which is then asked, it is of course the case that Healthcare Denmark will in no way make a future decision in relation to Amager Hospital. What Healthcare Denmark has to do and why we are setting up Healthcare Denmark is to ensure a significantly higher level of coordination across the country and also to support the national direction of health care, because we want one health service in Denmark and not a health service with five different standards • with five potentially different IT systems, because you buy IT systems in regionally, as it is today, a greater coordination, also greater coordination in the highly specialised area, so that you can get proper treatment of high quality, regardless of where you live in the country. Those are the things that, among other things. will be anchored around Healthcare Denmark. What we, on the other hand, are putting into the administration in relation to the close and coherent relationship will be anchored in the health communities, where the City of Copenhagen will be part of a health community and where Amager-Hvidovre Hospital will continue to cover up against these 250,000 Copenhageners who will not experience changes in the good service they receive at Amager Hospital right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403135945	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403135947	Thank you. I can, of course, start by saying to the Minister that nobody is running a scare-mongering campaign. I am expressing exactly the same concern that the Minister's party colleagues Mr. Jacob Jensen, sir. Søren Gade and many others, moreover, say that when decisions are moved away from elected representatives, there is a risk in the long term, whether in the short or the long term, that decisions are taken which do not necessarily have a local foundation. That is why I am simply repeating my question, because I do not think the Minister replied to it. Well, who is it that in the future, not next year, if you carry out this health reform I understand that the government will keep things as they are right now, at least but in five years' time, priority is given to what kind of functions are in different hospitals? Is it Healthcare Denmark, or is it the health communities themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20190403140042	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403140043	What is in Berlingske today is actually very interesting reading. It's about S-profile campaigning to preserve a hospital that nobody wants to close. It is precisely about Amager Hospital, which we are talking about today, and the scaremongering that the questioner has put on the Internet, which only has one purpose: to make the Amagerkans on Amager worried about whether their local hospital should still exist. I think that is a new low target. I also understand that the questioner tunes around with some claim that the 250,000 Copenhageners associated with Amager-Hvidovre Hospital will in future have to turn to Bispebjerg, even if it is factually incorrect. And then I can correct the questioner and say that it will not be in the health communities or in health care Denmark, that decision is anchored.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403140132	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403140133	At least now we're gonna make it one step further. I'd like to start by inviting the minister, if she wants, to a panel debate on this at Amager, because this concern for the future of Amager Hospital is not something I've come up with. That is something that the citizens have and that they have had for many years. But am I to understand the Minister's reply that it is neither the Board of Health Services Denmark nor the Health Communities that decides on, for example, the emergency clinic, which was stumbling close to closing back in the autumn of last year, but the Danish Parliament that will make that decision in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20190403140206	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403140207	Now I had the pleasure of visiting Amager Hospital last week, and I think that the questioner would benefit from going there. There are some skilled staff in the emergency clinic, in the practice clinic and in the rest of the hospital, who make a difference to patients every day and who, as such, do not want to be part of the election campaign launched by the questioner and the scaremongering campaign in which patients have been taken hostage. I think that the Socialists, not just the questioner, should generally consider what they are doing when they tour the country and claim that hospitals will be closed as a result of the health reform when it is factually completely wrong. It is clear in black and white from the agreement made with the Danish People's Party and the government that there will be no change in the hospital structure, either for the 21 emergency hospitals or for the other hospitals and thus Amager Hospital.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403140259	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403140300	I would like to say to the Minister that we are simply trying to know who will decide in the future what functions are where. Now I've asked you several times. I have heard the Minister say that it is not Healthcare Denmark that has to make that decision in the future and that it is not the health communities themselves either. So it must be either in the Folketing or on the minister's desk. Can the Minister just tell us who will decide in the future what functions are in which hospitals in different parts of the country?
ParlaMint-DK_20190403140332	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403140333	I think it is worth repeating what I also started by saying, namely that the health reform does not change the hospital structure we have. Health reform is about creating closeness and coherence for patients. For what we are going to see in the coming years is more patients, more older citizens need more health services and also health services that are closer than where they are today. That's why we have to look at Amager Hospital as well. What are some of the functions which could be useful in cooperation between general practice, psychiatry, hospital and local authority? This is also why the health community sits and is represented on the health administration board in relation to ensuring that you have both the close voice, but that you also have the overall planning as regards the future hospital structure in the Capital Region.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403140419	Thank you. The question is closed. There is a new question for the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403140425	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403140425-2	Thank you. It is, in fact, a little the same, but just from a different angle: does the Minister agree that the Hospital Plan 2025, drawn up by the Capital Region and just consulted, must be implemented, regardless of whether the regions are closed down or not?
ParlaMint-DK_20190403140440	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403140442	Well, thank you for the question. I can, of course, start by stressing what I said before, because that is where the questioner wants to go, when the questioner refers to the draft which I know is in consultation and which is not a adopted document, but is something that has been sent in consultation in December 2018 it is just as well, so we are clear when the questioner now, like saying that it should have been adopted. It's not. Having said that, however, it must be said that the health reform does not change the hospital structure we have, either for the 21 or for the other hospitals. This also means that Amager Hospital is the important local hospital for a great many citizens in the metropolitan area and not least at Amager. However, in relation to Hospital Plan 2025, which is a consultation document and not a adopted document in the Capital Region, I cannot really say what the Capital Region is going to do with this document. It may be that the questioner should ask his fellow party members about it, that is, the management of the Capital Region, and ask what it is that Mrs Sophie Hæstrup Andersen and others want to do with this document. What we have agreed with the Danish People's Party in the health reform is: 1) that the hospital structure will not change; 2) that more proximity and coherence will be created for citizens by creating a proximity fund of 8.5 billion. kr., where we invest massively in our close health care and build close health houses, modernise general practices for the Danes and also those from Amager and Copenhagen • who in some places today find that they cannot get a general practitioner, or that there is not enough time with the general practitioner, train 2,000 extra nurses, train 160 additional general practitioners and here and now send up to 320 younger doctors into general practice. We do this in order to strengthen the close health care system. That is what is included in the agreement. Then we also include what has been budgeted and agreed in the 2019 budget, and which is included in the estimates in the budgets of the regions, so that one has, as it were, assumed in the region that this or that is to be built, and it could be on Amager or elsewhere on the basis of the agreement with the Danish People's Party, and that of course one should take stock of that, but not some consultation document, which the questioner should probably basically ask his party colleagues in the Capital Region about what they want to do about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403140658	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403140659	In the previous question, I tried to get an answer to the question and I did not get an answer to it by the Minister who ultimately makes decisions about what functions should be where in the future. And the reason is that, as the Minister rightly says, I would like to be a politician representing my constituents on Amager. I want to ensure that there remains an emergency clinic and I want to make sure that there remains a cadastre at Amager Hospital. One has already been closed a few years ago. So my question is, where should I go? Who do I have to influence to secure it in the future? Is this in the Folketing? Is it the minister or the ministry? Is it in Healthcare Denmark? Is it in the health community? I mean, where is it that I can work for an emergency clinic in the future too? And a good starting point for that is, of course, that there is a hospital plan, as the Minister rightly says is in consultation right now, but it is everything else just a result of negotiations that have been in the Capital Region. Here the emergency clinic at Amager was stumbling close to not becoming part of the future hospital plan. Fortunately, it was because we had skilled citizens-elected representatives from various parties who fought for it. So my question now, apart from who will decide in the future, is what happens now, when the Capital Region has decided to consult, that the emergency clinic on Amager should be preserved: will it be, or what happens to the hospital plan? If, after the elections, the government is allowed to continue along with the Danish People's Party, there will be some legislation to abolish the regions, but who is setting priorities for the next five years? Or is it just that everything that is now is chiseled in granite forever? I find that hard to imagine, because there aren't many things in this world. Can't the Minister tell me how this works?
ParlaMint-DK_20190403140848	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403140850	If only now the questioner would listen and deal with the content and I know the questioner is having a hard time with that, and that is probably why the questioner is running a scare campaign on Amager and taking patients hostage in a claim that Amager Hospital should close and with an indication that other parties will close Amager Hospital. But I hope that after today the questioner will stop, because I think that is a low point in the debate we have. In relation to the question of who you go to, the answer is that we want our municipal politicians to take on greater responsibility for the close health care sector, the 2,400 elected representatives we have around the country who are anchored in the municipalities. That is why we put mayors and health committee chairmen into the 21 health communities, so all 98 municipalities are represented, because the natural entrance to contact is precisely via one's local politicians in one's vicinity. In addition, we create patient and family councils in all 21 health communities, so that as a patient, relative or ordinary citizen you can also seek influence there. And we do so in order to have a nourishing and more coherent anchoring of our health care systems.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403140952	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403140954	Thank you. The Minister now mentions contact councils and relatives' councils. Is that where the decisions are made? We just want to know where the decision to give different priority to the functions that are will ultimately be taken. That's what happens all the time. This is being done for all kinds of good reasons. However, we would like to know, just as the citizens would like to know, where to go if you have special wishes, special circumstances that you would like to put forward in those discussions. Where are the decisions taken at the end of the day?
ParlaMint-DK_20190403141030	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403141031	With the health reform that we have agreed with the Danish People's Party, we are giving an extraordinary boost to our close health care with 9 billion. kr. The 8.5 billion. kr. We are placing in the proximity fund. We also create 21 health communities, and only the health communities created in the Capital Region will be able to dispose of approx. 1 billion kr., so you can find out exactly where to strengthen some of the close functions in the health communities, i.e. across the municipality, hospital/psychiatry and your own doctor. Is it in connection with Amager Hospital that we have to build so that there will be even more functions? Should we build an extra health house out on Amager? Do we need to modernise some of the medical practices that are currently in place, so that they can hire more nurses and bioanalysts? It is, of course, decisions that are taken in the health communities. I know that the Socialists are against both the exceptional 9 billion increase. kr., but also against the fact that we commit and strengthen the close health care system. I think that's too bad. Because it will benefit patients in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403141131	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403141131-2	We are not opposed to any extraordinary boost. In other words, we ourselves have proposed a greater extraordinary boost, and I think we could agree on that. The Minister and I, if that is what the Minister is saying, could easily agree to strengthen the functions of Amager Hospital. What we just want to know, what I have been doing for everything that has only been discussed over the past many years, has, of course, been doing away with functions on, among other things. Amager Hospital. And there we are just a lot of people who were born and raised on the island, who are not interested in it and who have that discussion and who have also had that discussion before the government presented its health reform. So the minister shouldn't feel taken. For many years I have believed and worked for and voted for the preservation of Amager Hospital. What is then the current discussion is that we need to find out who is making those decisions in the future, as Mr. Søren Gade and Mr. Jacob Jensen from the Minister's own party is also interested in knowing who will make those decisions in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403141227	Thank you. Yeah, we just need an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403141232	Thank you, Madam President. But I can totally admit to the questioner that the four social democratically-led regions we have in Denmark have centralised. In some respects, they have been centralised because this has been necessary in order to improve quality, but in other areas, among others. In the Capital Region, centralisation has been centralized. This is, of course, what we are doing with the proximity reform that we have agreed with the Danish People's Party, where we make an extraordinary proximity fund of 8.5 billion. kr., and where roughly 1 billion. kr. We are going to go to new construction, reconstruction, modernisation of medical practices and health houses in the metropolitan area, so that we can get more health services close to our citizens so that we can have more proximity so that we can have more coherence. I may be so sorry that the Socialists do not want to be involved, but it seems to be an election campaign. I guess that's why you tour Amager and take the patients hostage and tell Amager Hospital to close. But I hope that we have clarified that today, namely that Amager Hospital should not.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403141329	That concludes the question. The next question is to the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing by Mr. Jan Erik Messmann, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403141335	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403141337	Thank you, President. Does the Minister believe that it can be justifiable not to warn air traffic at Copenhagen Airport when you know with great certainty exactly where the flocks of birds are, as this is clearly shown by the bird radar purchased and installed in 2018?
ParlaMint-DK_20190403141359	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403141401	Thank you for the question. It is important that safety at Danish airports, including at Copenhagen Airport, is at its peak and that the risk of collisions between birds and aeroplanes at take-off and landing is as low as possible. Birds and safety are therefore also of great interest in the Ministry and are a separate focus area for the Danish Transport, Construction and Housing Authority's work on aviation safety. It is Copenhagen Airport which is responsible for the safety of the airport, including ensuring that birds do not violate the safety of take-off and landing at the airport. It is then the responsibility of the Danish Transport, Construction and Housing Authority to assess whether the safety measures taking place at Copenhagen Airport are sufficient. I know that, as part of this role of authority, the Danish Transport, Construction and Housing Authority is in continuous dialogue with relevant stakeholders on the subject, including airports, airlines and associations such as the Pilot Association. So I have no doubt that the aviation authorities take the issue of flocks of birds near airports seriously. I am not aware of the technical details of the bird radar in question and would therefore urge the author to put his question as a committee question so that I can obtain further information on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403141516	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403141517	Thank you. Yes, for birds flying into aircraft engines are a well-known problem and have forced aircraft to crash. And it is a problem if Copenhagen Airport, which is responsible for safety, pays more attention to economic considerations than the safety of passengers and flight crews, and then covers an economic interest in categorizing problems with flocks of birds as something else, which means that the extent of the problem is unknown. Bramgage and gray geese pose a significant problem, as the geese have been allowed to reproduce unbridled. There were, for example, in 2018 over 10,000 new Bramgæs on Saltholm and Peberholm, based on the Danish Environmental Protection Agency's breeding censuses. The authorities aren't doing anything. All of a sudden, we have a Danish repeat of the accident on the Hudson River in 2009. For there have been similar cases in Denmark. It happens every week. For example: KLM was hit by geese on 8 February this year and had engine stops on one engine just after the King's Grove overshooted on the south, and with fire smell in the cabin the plane had to be returned immediately on one engine. Does the Minister not think that it is a legal problem if dangerous collisions with birds actually occur weekly are camouflaged as technical accidents?
ParlaMint-DK_20190403141639	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403141640	Sir. Jan Erik Messmann's question has a degree of detail derived from the fact that Mr. Jan Erik Messmann is a pilot and talks to many people. And I would very much like to answer the very detailed and technical questions which Mr. Jan Erik Messmann is quiet. It has been seen before that these have been relevant questions, so perhaps it is here too, but it requires me to have an opportunity to send the questions to the relevant authorities, including the airport, to hear how they deal with the matters that Mr. Jan Erik Messmann brings forward here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403141715	I understand that, and that is probably what needs to be done. So I would just like to say, in conclusion, that as the chief supervisory authority, the Minister has the responsibility to check that Copenhagen Airport complies with all its obligations. I would therefore like to ask the Minister here at the end, when the Minister has been brought to the attention of the problem, whether the Minister intends to contact Copenhagen Airport and ask for a written explanation of the procedure of Copenhagen Airport in relation to informing pilots about the flocks of birds when Copenhagen Airport can see the flocks of birds on the radar, but does not immediately do anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403141750	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403141751	Not only do I intend to ask Copenhagen Airport, but also to ask the Danish Transport, Building and Housing Authority about the question and their assessment of the question. And then I will come back with an answer to Mr. Jan Erik Messmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403141809	I really appreciate that. Thank you very much, sir. Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403141810	Thank you. I will not fail to say that we may have to find out whether we can reply orally or in writing before standing in the Chamber. It did not sound as if the Minister could really answer, and perhaps we should have taken that into account. Here you go, sir. Rasmus Prehn, Social Democracy. And it is also a question for the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403141834	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403141836	Thank you very much, President. Does the Minister consider that in future all municipalities will have an equal influence on public transport if the regions are closed down and in future only seven municipalities in each transport company will take decisions on bus and rail traffic across municipal boundaries?
ParlaMint-DK_20190403141851	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403141852	The short answer to Mr. Rasmus Prehn's question is: Yes, today the individual municipality decides on the local traffic it finances itself. The closure of the regions does not change that. Today, the Regional Council decides on the regional bus and private rail traffic financed by the region. These decisions on regional public transport, which are now taken by the Regional Council, will in future be taken by the management board of the transport company. The board of each of the new transport companies consists of seven members appointed by the municipalities of the area. The municipalities must therefore appoint seven members of the municipal council to represent the municipalities in a whole, as the municipalities do today. Within the framework laid down by the law, the Board of Directors shall have overall responsibility for the company. No local authority shall be empowered to instruct the members of the board of directors of the transport company. The decisions taken by the Board of Directors are therefore not taken by three, five or seven municipalities, as the questioner mistakenly believes. The management board of the transport company shall decide on regional bus and private rail traffic. As today, this should take place in an open process involving users and stakeholders in public service traffic, including municipalities and local businesses.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403142011	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403142013	Thank you very much for your reply. It's only good if we don't get out there where the influence gets smaller. But we Social Democrats are therefore sceptical about this, because today we have regions that are born to defend the interests that happen across municipal boundaries. When you remove that link, we can be afraid that there is not the same focus on ensuring coherence across municipal boundaries. In fact, we already saw it when the counties were laid down and more responsibility was transferred to the municipalities. There we had several concrete examples of municipalities that would not help, so that the neighbouring municipality could get the bus service they wanted, because, as the municipalities said, when it is not something that affects our citizens, we do not see why we should interfere with it, why we should support it. It must be the other municipality that has to take care of it. So you will be missing the coordinating link across the municipal boundaries when you cut down the regions, and when you even shave down the number of board seats, there will be relatively few who will represent the various areas, and that is why we can be afraid that there are some municipalities that are put completely outside the influence and end up like bucks in this game and that they cannot shout if there is a bus route that is being shut down. What may surprise us a little is that the government in relation to the metropolitan area has said that now we need this new HOT, where we need to work much more together, where we need to coordinate much more and where we need to have the different systems to talk better together. It is a little strange, then, that in the rest of the country you choose to say that everything that is coordinating, everything that makes sure that you talk across municipal boundaries, we close down, and then we create a tiny narrow board, where not all municipalities can be represented. What is the Minister's response to, for example? Morsø Municipality or Hjørring Municipality or Mariagerfjord Municipality, which risk not having a seat on this board and who cannot shout when there is a bus route that is closed?
ParlaMint-DK_20190403142220	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403142222	There will continue to be an organisation which is the regional transport company which is born to defend regional interests. On the board of the regional transport company, the municipalities will have a seat, and they will have seven board members, and they will of course be elected representative of the area covered by the region. Sometimes it's gonna take turns. It could be imagined that three western municipalities will send a representative in turn who can represent them all three and not just their own municipalities, and that is just as it is in a regional council, where it is also the case that people are sent, and not necessarily all municipalities are elected to the Regional Council, because it may be that there is no good social democrat set up there or whatever. So it is a good system that takes care of the same interests as the present one.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403142322	Then that's the questioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403142324	First of all, I have to say that there are not good social democrats in all places. Of course there is, but they may not be elected, and that is another matter. After all, there is a reduction in the number of board members, so that there are fewer representatives of local interests, that is not correct, Mr President. Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20190403142342	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403142344	There are seven board members, and that is all enough to cover an entire region. I don't see why that shouldn't be enough. Of course, there may be representation from all parts of a region, and there will be. Surely it is not the case that only the eastern municipalities of a region will be represented on the board. Of course, it will also be the municipalities which are located, for example. in the western part of the territory of the regional transport company. So I think that the concern that Mr. Rasmus Prehn says that the more you want to be against something the government does, because you have to have a reason why you want to be caliph instead of caliph.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403142431	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403142433	After all, we have just praised the government for the initiative in the capital where more cooperation is envisaged, and that is why we are asking questions about the logical flaw that we are doing the very opposite in the rest of the country, that we are splitting up what we already have. And can the Minister not admit that there are fewer board members in Nordjyllands Trafikselskab when it is changed than there are today?
ParlaMint-DK_20190403142459	The minister for last answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403142501	After all, there is absolutely no division. I don't know where sir. Rasmus Prehn got it from. The regional transport company remains intact. It is just that the region does not have its seat there because the region ceases to exist. After all, the cooperation we are developing in the capital is across different forms of traffic that are today divided, but in the other parts of the country traffic is not as many as in the capital, which is why there is no coordination between S-train and light rail and buses in West Jutland, because there are only buses. There are no S-trains and light lanes. So that's a silly point of view, as Mr. Rasmus Prehn is expressing here, but it is simply an expression of the fact that some justification must be given that one should sit in government instead of the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403142542	Thank you. The question is closed. The next one is for the Minister of Education and Research by Mr. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403142550	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403142551	Thank you, President. When the minister at an event at Aalborg University said that you do it fantastic Aalborg. Sorry you're gonna get hit, that wasn't meant to happen. But you're gonna be okay. I'm sure you're gonna be okay. On the major cuts at the university, does the Minister believe that the government will remove the re-priority contribution that contributed to the cuts?
ParlaMint-DK_20190403142616	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403142617	Thank you for the question, sir. Rasmus Prehn, and thank you for the floor. The Government has decided to stop the savings resulting from the re-prioritisation contribution by the end of 2021. From 2022, we shall return the re-prioritisation contribution to the educational institutions. We spend a lot of money on education. This year we expect that the grant to higher education institutions will be between 15 and 16 billion. kr., and a grant for research, which for universities is approx. 9 billion kr. I fully recognise that it is not an easy task to implement the savings resulting from the re-prioritisation contribution, but there are opportunities. The management at Aalborg University has focused on improving the efficiency of the task solution. This also applies to the other institutions. So when I get to a debate event at Aalborg University, as I have done, it is because I recognise that it is a difficult task, but also because I am sure that Aalborg University will manage. As I said, we spend a lot of money in this area, and management takes care of the task. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403142716	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403142717	Thank you very much to the Minister for this answer and also thank you for visiting Aalborg University. This is something you really welcome in Aalborg when the Minister comes to visit and takes the dialogue. Thank you, too, for the care that the Minister has shown to the many people who have been affected by this: it is, after all, the employees who have seen their colleagues dismissed, it is the dismissed themselves, it is the families affected, and it is also the students who are really appalled by such a violent dismissal. That is why I fully understand the Minister's concern about this. What is more, the Minister is not merely expressing an understanding, a concern or a sympathy. The Minister says directly that it was simply not intended. If the Minister could decide, he would have done it in a different way, then one should almost understand, and that is where, as a North Jutland elected politician, one thinks: Well, was that really not the intention? Wasn't that intended? Wasn't that the plan? Isn't that what the minister wanted? Will the Minister change something? Now the question now has something to say about the re-priority contribution, but it may also be the whole taximeter system, which has also been a factor in their being exceptionally hard hit at Aalborg University, namely the fact that you remove the completion taximeter, so you rewarded Aalborg University, which was able to get their candidates ready quickly. You turn that down, and you turn up an employment taximeter. You put it exactly where those who become graduates from Aalborg University, who typically take a little longer to get to work, do not count as in employment, but are unemployed, and therefore lose their grants. Is it the case that after visiting Aalborg University, after having been in dialogue with Aalborg University, having thought about it, the Minister has now come to the realization that it was therefore a mistake that it was not intended to change it? Because that must be what you can conclude from what the Minister actually said: that was not intended. Is the Minister going to change that?
ParlaMint-DK_20190403142919	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403142921	Thank you. I have been to Aalborg University twice, I think, before I became a minister, and also a few times after I became a minister, and I am impressed by what they do at Aalborg University, so I expressed that here. MIT has just said that they are the fourth best technical university in the world, so it is amazing what they have achieved up at Aalborg University. After all, in the debate we had last Thursday at Aalborg University, there were two debates which were a little about savings. One debate came to be specifically about the re-prioritisation contribution, and that is a little what the questioner, Mr President. Rasmus Prehn, also asks, and there I have the answer like this. That's the intention. We know that the re-priority contribution also affects Aalborg University. Then there was another debate that came to be about the other things that also affect Aalborg University, including English language and a new licensing system, and there I say: We did not design it from hitting Aalborg University, it is not intended. But we have designed it on the basis of objective criteria, and Aalborg University is also hit on top of the re-priority contribution compared to the two things. That is what that comment was about.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403143021	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403143022	The Minister uses the concept of objective criteria, and we can only agree on that. Objective criteria are always good when it comes to doing these things. That is something everyone can relate to. But now that the Minister has become aware that the so-called objective criteria are precisely the same at a university that makes the excellent thing that Aalborg University is doing, gets its candidates ready quickly, but also gets candidates in employment, a little later than others, but in employment it is in the clear light that the Minister says: It was not the intention that Aalborg University actually gets their candidates into employment, should we change it a little, should we just push that limit a little, so that one is not hit so hard?
ParlaMint-DK_20190403143104	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403143104-2	When all of the Danish Parliament's parties agreed on a new licensing system, they knew that this would affect Aalborg University. So you knew the effects of it. It was just not the coin, because the debate has come to be a little bit about what to say: are you almost a little after Aalborg University? No, we're not, and that's why I said what I did here. So no, that does not give rise to it, and that is because it is sensible new objective criteria that we have laid down for our allocation system, which is about quality in education rather than quantity, and that is why we have changed them. We did so too, because we could see that it hit Aalborg, that half of the impact it will have on Aalborg University, they will be compensated for, I think it is here in 2019, and then the compensation will fall. However, there will be permanent compensation. So I also think that all the parties in the Folketing have taken this into account in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403143150	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403143150-2	So the minister says it was intended that you knew this before you changed things, and then you chose to do it anyway. Although you know that there is a university that objectively delivers on a number of parameters, you have sat down and created a system that hits the University of Aalborg extraordinarily hard; although you are quite enthusiastic about the university and think that they are doing very well and that they are bouncing positively on a number of criteria, you have chosen to lay the cut just so that they are hit extra hard at Aalborg University. So it was intended? The minister does not mean what he said to the students and staff at Aalborg University, and that was therefore intended.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403143233	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403143234	Now it is going to be a lot to go on a single word in the debate when I said that it was not intended to hit Aalborg University, where suddenly there was a feeling in the debate there, as if we were going after that university. I fully acknowledge there that they have done a lot of good things. So do all the other universities, and we needed to make some changes. We also need to make a change in relation to the English language. Aalborg University is one of our most international universities, and a majority in the Danish Parliament has told me as Minister that I must make defence initiatives to ensure that the cost of migrant workers in the SU system does not run out of control. This is also why we have limited it, and when Aalborg University has a lot of international students who do not stay in Denmark, it also hits Aalborg. So the objective criteria aren't designed to hit Aalborg, but they hit Aalborg, and that's what I'm aiming for.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403143320	Thank you to the Minister and thank you to the author. There are no more questions available today. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403143328	The debate has been opened, and the first to speak is Mr Beazley. Lars Aslan Rasmussen from the Social Democratic Party. The minister comes at last under this point, so it's not arming himself with patience.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403143404	In Denmark we go to the same school across social and cultural layers. We speak the same language and share a number of common values. Folkeskole is one of the most important ways of achieving good integration, and it is the foundation of a strong and well-functioning society. That is why the Social Democrats are very concerned about the increasing fragmentation that we see in our school system. When children go to school, it must be something that strengthens integration, and not the opposite. The school is a place where you have to learn to read, write and count, but it is also a place where you acquire some basic values and where you get ready to be an active citizen in Denmark and part of the Danish community. That is why we must pay close attention to schools where the opposite is the case. It is particularly serious in some of the Muslim free schools, where it has developed into parallel schools in several places, and where Arabic is spoken and rules quite different from those of primary school and Danish society. We do not want schools in Denmark where students are banned from having Danish friends and boyfriends, where social control is exercised over the pupils also outside school hours and where there is a conscious distinction between girls and boys who reach e.g. a school sends the boys to Mecca, but not the girls, as has happened in Aarhus. We do not want a Denmark where you can live a whole child and youth life without at any time having had any contact with the Danish society and our cultural standards and values, where you have been cared for at home as a little girl, then coming to a Muslim free school and then perhaps later at a Muslim high school. We believe this to be absolutely destructive to the cohesion of our society. For this reason, the Social Democratic Party wants a real fight with free and private schools operating on a basis that is contrary to Danish values and hinders integration, so that all children grow up with equal opportunities and thus get the best starting point for a good future in Denmark. That is why we also have a clear political desire to put an end to free and private schools which are damaging integration. That is why we have also proposed that the subsidy system could be changed to free and private schools, with more than 50%. of the students are with foreign backgrounds. Unfortunately, however, the government will not be involved in this. Instead, control of free primary schools continues to increase on a number of points: it is becoming more difficult to receive subsidies from non-western countries and it becomes more transparent where donations come from. At the same time, control of the circle of people around new and existing free schools is increasing and there is more openness. It's really good, but it's not good enough. It is no secret that we want more to be done than that. As I mentioned before, we would like to see schools that create parallel societies closed down, because this bill does not cover all donations of money, but only those of more than DKK 20,000, and this despite the fact that back in 2018, a majority in the Danish Parliament ordered the government to ban all non-western foreign donations. At the same time, the draft law also provides for a number of new freedoms for free schools. This applies, among other things, to: the possibility for free schools to set up subdivisions. But it is a strange zigzag course that you first increase control somewhere and then at the same time choose to relax control somewhere else, because it is obvious that it complicates control of Muslim free schools if you allow them to extend over a wider area. It is untenable to stop states and organisations in the Middle East actively trying to export and disseminate radical interpretations of Islam in the Danish free schools. We would therefore like to table two amendments to the draft law, which we otherwise support. Firstly, we would like to see the possibility of free schools setting up subdivisions removed entirely from the legislative proposal. Secondly, and this is the most important thing for us is money gifts. As it is right now, 20,000 kroner. the amount limit. In other words, it will be possible for all sorts of undemocratic personalities or dictatorships to produce a so-called Mrs Baker fint where the sums can be divided up. That is to say, you can give DKK 19,999, and then we really find it difficult to control who gives the money. We want a limit of DKK 0 so that it is not possible for foreign associations, states or undemocratic people to interfere in our school system. Otherwise, as I said, we support the other parts of the bill. And I will say on behalf of Mrs Marianne Jelved, who is on Poul Schlüter's birthday, that she and the Radicals do, as do Mr Schlüter. Jacob Mark of the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403143832	Thank you. There are three who wanted to make brief comments. The first is sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403143835	Thank you. After all, there are a lot of restrictions on this, in addition to what the rapporteur has concentrated on, namely on donations outside the European Union and the EEA. There is also the need to explain from which the donation has been given. And all donations will now become transparent in the future, so anonymous donations will simply be banned. So my question is whether the Socialists would not want to join this agreement. We are, of course, pleased that you will vote in favour of the bill. I almost expected that too, but could the Social Democrats not want to be included in this agreement in line with the government and the Danish People's Party, which initially agreed? Would that not be a good signal to the voters?
ParlaMint-DK_20190403143931	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403143932	Yes, in relation to large parts of the proposal. Where we may not fully understand the Danish People's Party is why we cannot agree that a limit of DKK 0 will be set. Because in this way we make sure that you cannot be so creative and cheat the system, regardless of what is open about. And then the questioner must also admit that it will be easier for Muslim free schools to expand in relation to this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403143952	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403143954	However, we do agree that it is actually going to be much harder for free schools today to cheat on illegal subsidies because they are no longer anonymous and because, among other things, they are. I need to explain where they come from. And what's good is that the free schools that don't get state subsidies are part of these austerity. So I have a little difficulty understanding the criticism, because in relation to the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party and supported by S and SF, there are far more restrictions here, and then the Socialists should really be happy and be able to agree to an agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403144039	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403144041	Where it stands and falls with us, one can say is in relation to two things. It is firstly that it is easier to make subdivisions for free schools, including some of the free schools that we do not like, and secondly, and that is perhaps the most important thing, so we would like the limit to be 0 DKK. For many of these funds are not called Erdogan's Freedom Fund, they are called everything else, and it will be possible to divide it into small amounts and still away support via foreign money. And there we may hope later that good supervision reveals it, but the possibility is there when there is no limit of DKK 0.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403144108	Mrs Anni Matthiesen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403144110	Thank you. Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I would like to ask a few questions about the amendments that the Socialist rapporteur is now saying will be included. As I understand it, it is a matter of inter alia. about taking out the part that is about giving the opportunity to create departments. So it can be said that the legislative proposal itself here is limited, since it must be either in its own municipality or in its neighbouring municipality. I have to ask: what exactly is the concern? There could be a lot of connections, among others. especially in rural areas where you actually need to be able to do these departments. It will typically be in the outlying areas, where there may be a good free school in the largest city, and where there can actually be an advantage in creating a small department in a nearby village. That is why I think it goes a little bit against what I understand the Socialists are sometimes in favour of, namely that we should also have educational opportunities around the country. So could the rapporteur put a little more words on it?
ParlaMint-DK_20190403144218	Yeah. Although I was elected in Copenhagen, I fully agree that there are some particular problems in some of the sparsely populated areas in this respect. I also believe that the rapporteur must admit that we may well have a slightly different position from that of the Left in terms of private and public affairs. We really want to strengthen the primary school, and no matter how you turn it around here, it gives the private schools better conditions than they would otherwise have, and we think that is too bad compared to the primary school. And that also strengthens some of the private schools with which we have a major problem in the Social Democratic Party: some of the private schools that help create parallel societies; they will also be able to expand more easily.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403144254	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403144255	It's funny if I put on the rural glasses, I think this is really good. It is actually the case that primary schools too can easily have joint management and so on, even if they are not in the same city. That is why I think it goes against what the Socialists often say about the fact that they are also talking about rural areas. I have clearly seen this as a good opportunity for the outermost regions in particular. I just want to hear from the rapporteur: is it not true that if you do not want to be involved in this, you are hitting the very sparsely populated areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20190403144334	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403144335	No, I don't think that's correct. I guess that depends on how you assess it. We don't mind having a special look at this particular situation, but the free and private schools we have are located around the country, both in large towns and small towns, and that doesn't change the fact that this also makes it easier for some of the private schools that are really problematic and that it primarily takes care of the free and private schools at the expense of the primary school, which we still hope is the parents' first choice.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403144402	Then it's Mr., no, sorry, Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403144406	Thank you. I haven't changed sex since last time. I just want to ask the rapporteur what he said about the process. The rapporteur mentioned that we will be asking for the bill to be split up. Is it between the two parts, then, that it is about being able to associate several departments with the donations? My question is actually about something that I also think the rapporteur said about the donation part, namely that you cannot support the limit of DKK 20.000 and that you want to go as low as DKK 0 when it comes to donations from abroad, but that, as I have heard, you can support the part that concerns transparency. So are we talking about wanting the bill to be split into two and not into three proposals? That is my question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403144457	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403144459	We therefore have two amendments. One is that of subdivisions, and the other is that we want there to be no possibility of giving money from non-western countries at all. For what we have seen is a phony and fraud from people who call themselves anything else, and then you find out that it is money from Turkey. We've got plenty of cases. We have had a Shiamuslim preacher named Ali al-Sistani, who has given money through various funds and who has at the same time sent fatwa against homosexuals. All we're saying is, if the amount is 0 kroner, it's at least impossible, no matter how creative you are. Otherwise, you can do what we have seen the political rapporteur of the Left, Mrs Britt Baker, do: just divide it up into different amounts and continue to support schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403144532	Then we thank the rapporteur, and we welcome the next rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Alex Ahrendtsen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403144551	Thank you, President. This bill actually comes from a motion for a resolution, namely B 22 from October 2018, which the Danish People's Party had in the Chamber, where we proposed that free schools should not receive support from countries outside the EU and EEA countries. The government was opposed at the time, but the resolution was supported by the Social Democrats and the SF, which created a majority. We were very pleased about this, and I would like to take this opportunity to thank both the Social Democrats and the SF for their support, because it was crucial in forcing the government to enter into negotiations with us. Those negotiations were lengthy: more than 3 months before we reached an agreement on 25 January 2019. What we have then reached is the third phase of austerity in the field of open school. The first phase was during Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby as Minister of Education; the second phase was during Mrs Merete Riisager as Minister of Education and now the third phase, which is once again under Mrs Merete Riisager as Minister of Education. It then became both a ban package and a freedom package. For the Danish People's Party it is an expression of due diligence. We are given additional tools to deprive state subsidies to free schools that are working against us. Tightenings will make it impossible, for example, for a Saudi rich man to run a free school in Denmark or for a Turkish association, as the rapporteur for the Socialists mentioned. Let me say at the outset, before I go on to explain what this is all about, that if we had pursued B 22 only with the Socialists and the SF, it would have been all about donations from outside the European Union and the EEA. As we entered into negotiations with the government, we got through a large number of other tightenings. That was among other things. The reason we chose that path. So what's in it? Firstly, there is a ban on anonymous donations. In future, there must be no anonymous donations to free schools, and donations must be written into the school's annual report and sent to the Ministry, which publishes them on the Accounting Portal. For donations of more than DKK 20,000. there is a requirement to explain or reject them. There will also be a ban on receiving donations of more than DKK 20,000. from non-EU and EEA countries. The Minister is granted a right of waiver, and this is due, among other things, to the fact that: the American State, which has granted grants to free schools in Denmark. Free schools which do not receive State subsidies will also be covered by these rules. If you imagine that a Saudi rich man wants to run a free school, he can do it today. From now on, he won't be able to do it like that, because it'll be against the rules. Then we have been assured that it can be implemented within EU law, which was also important for the government. In addition, the restrictions that we introduced previously for free schools will also apply to post-schools, free vocational schools and private colleges. But I will not go into them. They're famous for others. We have also examined how many donations there were, and in 2017 there were donations for a total of 82 million. kr. The 8.7 million. kr. was German and American money, of which 5 million were. kr. from anonymous donors. The freedom package was a wish of the free schools themselves. It was originally somewhat larger, but we had it boiled down to the three elements. The first is that free schools can set up no more than two departments of a free school in a neighbouring municipality or in the municipality in which it lives. This is particularly beneficial for rural free schools. Secondly, as a free school, administrative tasks can also be carried out for other free schools in return for payment. This is something that post-schools and free vocational schools already do today. And finally, free schools like the third can make club offers for the 4th grade and up. These are all actually very fine and small freedom adjustments. So all in all it is an excellent bill, which we of course support in the Danish People's Party, in that we have made an agreement with the government about it. Finally, I would also like to thank the Minister for the cooperation we have had in the field of free school, which has meant that today there are four Muslim free schools, a private Muslim high school and a Muslim post-school that has been deprived of their state subsidies, and this is thanks to the cooperation we have had. It is rare to think the same as a politician after you became a minister as before you became a minister, but our minister of education has shown that she does. That is why I would just like to thank you for the excellent cooperation we have had. It's been a pleasure.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403145103	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Lars Aslan Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403145105	Thanks for the speech. I would like to ask the rapporteur, if not the rapporteur, to admit that many of the cases that have been, with Hezbollah material, all sorts of crazy cases, are actually something that the press has uncovered; it is not because it is the Minister's fault, but it is not really something that supervision has been involved in. Would it not be very nice if we were to ignore the United States if we were to say that we cannot have it, and we simply cannot support it? So, what is Turkish money going to do in the Danish free school world? Because I think that the rapporteur also knows very well that there are often all sorts of strange funds which then actually lead back to undemocratic states and which can be very difficult to see through.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403145140	After all, it was me and the Danish People's Party who led the criticism of the Muslim free schools. When the Social Democrats were in government, one would not touch a finger, one defended them in particular. Then, within the last year and a half, the Socialists have awakened to deed and will now do something, and it is good that they support that line. We appreciate that. The proposal to ban Muslim free schools has been tried out on its own, and then you come here and criticise these marked tightenings. It's a little weird. You get stuck with the fact that there is now a limit of 20,000 kroner. So, with the other tightenings it becomes virtually impossible, because the free school also has to explain why and from which it has received these donations, and if it can't, then it has to reject them. That is to say, if there is a Turkish fund and wants to give 20,000 kroner, they must explain from where they have received the money, the donation is no longer anonymous. So in practice it becomes impossible to cheat into giving free schools those donations.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403145255	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403145256	Well, I don't know who said anything first. I've been in this debate for a lot of years about problems with these parallel community schools. Having said that, it's not for the history of whose fault it is, I think we agree on a lot of this, but I'm just thinking: couldn't you quite get rid of this by setting a limit of 0 kr? for non-western countries? So why is it so important for the Danish People's Party that some funds or something in the Middle East should be able to give some money? What are they doing in the Danish school system?
ParlaMint-DK_20190403145319	It was not important for the Danish People's Party. We'd like that limit of 0 kroner. It was the price for getting all the other restrictions in place, and that is how it is when you negotiate with parties in the Folketing. It takes a majority. And I am actually proud of these five constraints that we have had implemented, because if we had pursued the resolution alone, it would only have been one So it is a price we are willing to pay because in practice it makes it much harder to support free schools from outside the EU: from Turkey, from Saudi Arabia and other countries we do not like.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403145401	Thank you, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen. There are no more brief comments. Welcome very warmly to Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403145410	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for the floor. As has just been said by the previous speaker, the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, this draft law, which we are now discussing here in Parliament, simply aims to implement the agreement on a better framework for and enhanced supervision of free schools. It is an agreement that the governing parties made together with the Danish People's Party back in January. The draft law here proposes, among other things, that free schools should in future also be able to set up some school offers in a section of a free school. As I also mentioned in my question earlier, it is perhaps especially in rural areas that you have that need. In other words, if you can somehow help to ensure that there is also a school offer in a small village, then the bill here gives you an opportunity to set up a department, if the primary school is located in the same municipality or in the neighbouring municipality. In addition to this, it is possible for free schools to create club offers for pupils from the 4th grade in the future, which I also think is very good for us to be included in the bill here. As has also been said by previous rapporteurs, this draft law helps to create a ban on anonymous donations. So with this proposal we will have increased security and also increased transparency, and I have to say that this is one of the things that I think has been a pleasure to work together on. In fact, I would also like to thank Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen for the cooperation that has been in connection with these negotiations. I think that we have achieved well in terms of objectives and that with this proposal we will have increased security and security in relation to the fact that there will be no bad external influence, while at the same time we have been able to increase levels of freedom. So all in all, I welcome the fact that we have achieved the objective of this bill, and I have also promised to greet the Conservatives and to say that, of course, they support the bill, as we do on the Left side.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403145634	Thank you to Mrs Anni Matthiesen. There are no brief comments. Welcome, sir. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten (The Red Greens).
ParlaMint-DK_20190403145646	Thank you. With this proposal, legislative amendments are proposed, such as: to strengthen the supervision and change the framework for private donations to free schools, and it can be said, as other rapporteurs have also said, that this follows on from a large number of other discussions we have had on legislative amendments and resolutions. I would say that, as is the case here, we can support the proposal before us to include freedom and the folk government requirement in the law on post-schools and free vocational schools and the law on private upper secondary education. We think it is fine to extend the whistleblower system and to the discussion that is already well under way in this Chamber about anonymous donations, we can say that we are in favour of transparency and transparency. Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen referred to motion for a resolution B-22 in his speech. We said at the time that we supported the creation of transparency, and we also said at that time that we would be happy to support the level being lower than DKK 20.000. So I'm quite comfortable with that part. I do not want to fail to say, then, with the speeches that have been made, that there is much unnecessary rhetoric and suspicion of certain types of schools, I think. This is certainly not my business, but I think it is very sensible that we should be open about the fact that in schools run for public funds there must be general transparency as to where, moreover, they get their money from. We have no problem with that. On the other hand, we are concerned about the part of the proposal which concerns the introduction of the possibility of setting up departments in the free school law and the law on private schools. I have taken very careful note of the response from the Danish Teachers' Association. They use a number of wordings which they have also used in other legal proceedings, warning against the roll-back of rules into the legislation, which were introduced as a result of the problems of the Trend Schools, which, as you know, operated a large-scale school as a form of group formation. Although there is the demarcation that I am sure some will mention, we are concerned that this might be the start of rolling the obstacle to group formation, that is to say, the return of private school dynasties, and that we are opening up to the roll-back of wind legislation. I would like to say that I also share the concern expressed by the Danish Teachers' Association, the Free School Teachers' Association, the School Leader Association, and I think even the Children's and Culture Managers' Association, namely that financial interests can be the driving force behind the expansion of private schools, at the expense of the value-based educational communities, which should be the foundation of the whole free school world. We believe that the proposed change can be a step on the way to a significant expansion of the private school area and we are afraid that it can undermine the foundations of many local primary schools. This is, of course, a matter we have discussed often, and I would like to emphasise very clearly that our opposition is not based on opposition to parents' opportunities to establish value-based schools based on a particular educational basis. But we are simply afraid that this proposal will open up a development which will mean that where schools are being spared due to municipal cuts, the free school world will, as it were, have to hold hands under local school provision. I can easily understand the reactions that may be in a parent circle when you close the school close, but we do not think that there is a need for legal mechanisms that push in the direction of creating much more free schools that are not based on the desire for value-based schools based on specific educational principles, but that you just go in and cover primary school where the public wants to save money. This is a development that we are not in favour of. So all in all, it is our view that the proposal here will cause even more parents to opt out of primary school. We believe that this will lead to even more public school closures. This is a development that we consider to be very unfortunate. We need to strengthen our primary school and, with this proposal, we consider that, unfortunately, whether it is conscious or not, we are going to further undermine the foundations of the primary school, and that is why we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403150149	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403150151	Thank you. Thank you for Enhedslisten's rapporteur speech here. It's just to get it under control, for Mr. Knox. Jakob Silverhøj sometimes also speaks for the parents, and I still think that towards the end this sounds like the reason why Enhedslisten cannot back up on this, is actually this with the possibility of setting up departments. And then the rapporteur says that it is in order to take care of the primary schools as well. Does this mean that the Enhedslisten, in order to look after the primary schools, is actually prepared not to allow parents to actually send their child to school in a department in a village? Well, sometimes I'm a little in doubt about who, sir. Jakob Silverhøj cares the most?
ParlaMint-DK_20190403150248	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403150248-2	He cares for the interests of both parents and pupils, it is very important, and then Jakob Silverhøj takes care of the primary school, because we cannot escape the fact that the primary school is the foundation of our education system, and we are approaching a pain limit in some municipalities. There are some municipalities where one third of the primary school is no longer run in primary school but run in private schools. And there I simply believe that we have a political responsibility to ensure that we do not make legislation that drives primary school in a direction where private schools are increasingly taking over. I am, in my view, in agreement with the questioner, if that is what is intended to say, but is it not important that it should be possible to run schools close to parents? I believe that this obligation must be imposed on the municipalities and we have previously proposed that a referendum in a local area should be required if the municipality wants to close the primary school. Then there must be a local referendum in which people can decide to maintain primary school.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403150357	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403150358	Does this mean that Enhedslisten is opposed to parents having the right to actually create a free school? I can tell you, and I am sure the rapporteur is aware of this, that a great many of the free schools that have just emerged in rural areas have typically arisen because the primary school is closed. And many parents have come together and said: We want a school in our village. I just have to understand: is the Enhedslisten going in the direction of saying that that right would be removed in order to actually look after the primary school?
ParlaMint-DK_20190403150438	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403150438-2	No, we couldn't possibly dream of that. There is no need to make anything complicated simple, and I will not try to make it that way either, but what we are talking about here are situations in which parents are not actually able to set up a free school. Well, that's why there's got to be a need for the department construction. And there we are simply afraid that the construction itself will be driving. I'm sure if we do this, we'll see that there are limitations on yet, and then we'll start seeing a group formation. There is no need to say "Tvind" over and over again, but the type of school systems that we see in Sweden, where large private groups run primary school, is a highly undesirable development, and that is what we want to put a barrier to. However, I fully recognise that there are some dilemmas in that it is important that we guarantee parents the right to have their children in a school close to where they live.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403150531	Thank you, sir. Jakob Silverhøj, there are no more brief remarks. And welcome to Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403150539	Thank you for that, President. I was very worried when I heard Enhedslisten praise one of the government's bill, but when the end is negative, everything is good. The fact that one can attend a school that is independent of the state power has been a fundamental feature of school vision in Denmark since our nation was born as democracy in 1849. That is why we must uphold our tradition of free schools. It's one of the things that makes us who we are. After all, when our good traditions are so worth protecting, it is all the more regrettable that there are people, organisations and states that do not have the slightest respect for the Constitution or our democracy at all and that have been taken several times in using our liberal rules to create schools that are directly opposed to our liberal democracy and our liberal social order. Therefore, we welcome the fact that since 2017, the Ministry of Education has closed several free schools that did not meet the requirements of the law to bring up a society of freedom and popular rule and the requirement to provide education that is in line with the education offered by the primary school. But we also need to move forward, and that is why we are today dealing first with Bill No. 218. It forbids anonymous donations. In future, donations of more than DKK 20,000 must be reported in writing. In future, free schools should not be able to receive donations of more than DKK 20,000. from public authorities or natural or legal persons from outside the EU and the EEA, and for the same circle of persons and entities, free schools should not be able to rent buildings owned by them. These are some good and significant improvements that will be introduced by Bill No. 218, and of course the Liberal Alliance supports it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403150758	You're welcome, sir. Henrik Dahl. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403150810	Thank you. It's a little funny about this bill, because it's as if we all have such a slightly different attitude to the different elements today, so I don't know how the votes split up, perhaps as a patchwork at the end, if you had to deal with the different aspects. From the point of view of the alternative, I can say that we support most of the draft law. Just like with the Social Democracy and Enhedslisten, there are also things we don't support, these are just some other things, so it's a little nice, isn't it? But to put it bluntly, we support the basic idea of being able to set up more departments, so we have always been in favour of abolishing this old Trendlov. So that part of it we have no problem with. We support a total ban on anonymous donations, and I said this last time when we were in the Chamber discussing this. I think it was a B proposal from the Danish People's Party to ban donations from outside the EU and the EEA. That is when I mentioned the same thing: we are in favour of a total ban on anonymous donations, so there must be transparency in all donations coming to the free schools. We also support the inclusion of post-schools, free vocational schools and private schools in this requirement of freedom and democracy. What we do not support in this bill is the aspect of not receiving donations of more than DKK 20,000. from non-EU and EEA countries. If we do not support it, it is in fact because we do not see the need for it. It is not because we think that as an anti-democratic organisation or a state we should support a free school in Denmark. We would like to prevent that from happening, but when this bill introduces an element so that it is no longer possible to donate anonymously, it should of course give itself that in it there is also full transparency in who it is that is donating. Instead, we could introduce a rule which states that if it turns out that there are donations coming from organisations or legal persons or entities that are working against democracy, then it can be said that it is prohibited. So we would like to turn it upside down, so instead of banning donations of more than DKK 20,000. from outside the European Union, it will continue to be allowed, but so that we can catch the small, individual rotten fish in the net, as there will sometimes be. When I say that, it is also because, on an equal footing with what they write in the hearing answer from the Danish Free School Association, it seems like a major intervention in something that is actually a rather small problem. So, of course, the little problems have to be caught, but we don't see the need for this rule. It will create a lot of bureaucracy to have to grant some exemptions when needed. It is also because we support the whole idea that a foreign country outside the European Union can actually donate some money to a school or building. So, there's some new educational tradition coming from the United States that wants to start a school in Denmark, why not? Why, then, do we have to go through some round of waivers in order to do so? So we'd like to ask for the bill to be split up and pull out the part about this with the ban on donations of over $20,000. from non-EU and EEA countries. That will be our starting point, and we need to see whether we are prepared to do so in the legislative process. If you do not want to do so, then we have to decide how we deal with the entire legislative proposal. We cannot say that at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403151142	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Lars Aslan Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403151146	Thank you to the rapporteur. I just need to understand. Does this mean that the rapporteur does not support any limits at all? In other words, you can come from Somalia and donate 5 million. kr. to a Danish free school, as long as there is only transparency in it and as I also understand it complies with the rules. I would like to ask the rapporteur: what are such amounts to be made in the Danish free school world? Well, it seems like a lot of money. Does the rapporteur not see that there is a problem with the fact that no limit is set at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20190403151211	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403151212	For me, it is not a question of the amount, it is a question of where the money comes from. That's what's interesting here. So a donation from some terrorist organization, let's say, of 5,000 kroner. or 500 kroner. is too much. But $100,000. from a completely legitimate organization that is democratic and that wants a free school in Denmark the best is not too much. So I do not think it is so much a question of the number of crowns and ears; it is more about ensuring that the donations there are come from legitimate democratic legal entities, persons or organisations. So that's kind of where we stand.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403151253	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403151254	I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur admits that there have been very unfortunate cases that have been revealed, not by the supervision, not by the Ministry, but by the press, and where it has been called something else and money has come into the Danish school system. In that the rapporteur will allow such large sums and then say that you will have to find out later, if it is cheating, it is the students who will be the losers in this game. I guess it's better to set some kind of limit.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403151316	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403151317	We can discuss a limit. It is not at all because I am uninterested in discussing a border. I just don't know where it was supposed to go. We'll have to discuss that. But I think 20,000 kroner. If so, it would be too little, because I repeat, if there is a donation from a foreign organisation that is completely legitimate, why should it not be allowed to donate money to a Danish free school? For us, it makes no sense not to be allowed to do so. If a principle of transparency is implemented so that all anonymous donations are banned, then we can see where that money comes from. Then there is what is written in black and white, and then you can go in and ban the donations that may come from organisations that cannot, you can say, work with or for democracy. So I don't see the problem is that big. I admit that there have been some things in the press, but I also think there have been relatively few things, so the question is how much we need to legislate on the basis of some isolated incidents that we would be able to catch in other ways. That is our position.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403151410	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403151412	I have to understand the rapporteur correctly. In other words, it is actually a good thing that a state outside the EU or the EEA should be allowed to give any amount as long as it is transparent. The Socialist rapporteur, for example, suggested that it could be Somalia that gave 5 million. kr. kr. or 20 million kr., so that you could support a number of free schools. I should just like to understand whether it is the alternative's view that it is quite right as long as it is just open and transparent, i.e. that a state outside the EU or the EEA supports free schools in Denmark without limitation. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20190403151458	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403151459	No, that is not quite understood, nor has the questioner listened to what I said. Now I'm telling you for the third time, I think. We would like a criterion to be introduced which states that donations cannot be received from states, organisations, legal entities and people who oppose democracy and who are clearly anti-democratic and, of course, not from terrorist organisations either. We will never allow them, if you ask the alternative, to donate to Danish free schools. But the question is how to turn it around. Should we have a general ban from which to dispense if it turns out to be legitimate people or organisations, or should we not have a ban, but where to go and catch the rotten fish in the net when they are there? This could be done by having criteria that say that if it turns out that donations come from a state that does not comply, for example. human rights... let's just say it... then you can't be allowed to donate. That's how we want it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403151555	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403151557	But in the draft law there is a possibility of exemption, that is, if a state meets all the criteria and all the criteria are laid down in the law, then the Minister of Education and the Ministry could allow one to donate. Isn't that a much better way to deal with it instead of the hippie approach that the alternative has to deal with the serious problems we've had in the open school world?
ParlaMint-DK_20190403151626	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403151627	No, in our view it is not the other way around that is much more sensible, because there have been only a few cases; there have not been many cases that have been individual, I admit, and I have also included Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen. But when there are individual cases and this is not a huge problem, it is violent to have to make legislation that prohibits on the basis of individual cases. It would be better to make legislation where it is allowed, but where you can catch the individual cases that there are when there are some. And we have not been able to do so because there have been no criteria written down in relation to what has been allowed and not allowed in terms of donations. For me, it's a relatively easy tool to use... we can just agree on what kind of criteria it is, based on which you can't be allowed to donate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403151707	Thank you to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier. And then we've come to the Minister of Education. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403151716	With freedom comes responsibility. This is the brief explanation of the agreement made by the government with the Danish People's Party back in January of this year, and this is the agreement that this bill makes. Free schools form a very important part of the democratic culture in Denmark. It is a great opportunity that parents are free to choose the school that best suits their child. Almost one fifth of the country's primary school pupils attend school in a free primary school, and the diversity of the free primary schools is an expression of the fact that freedom and popularity are key values in Danish society. Parents know best which school is the right one for their child, but it is important that we ensure that all schools meet three general requirements. First of all, the requirement is met, that is to say, that education is in line with what is usually required in primary school. Secondly, there is the demand that freedom and the rule of the people should influence the functioning of the school, regardless of the values and perceptions on which the school is based. Thirdly, schools must respect the requirement of independence. We must ensure the right balance between, on the one hand, giving freedom to schools and, on the other, ensuring that supervision has the right tools to ensure that individual schools do not abuse the freedom to undermine democratic values. We have done this in the past for free primary schools, and now we are doing it also for post-schools, free vocational schools and private colleges. This bill gives free primary schools and private high schools a few more degrees of freedom. It loosens, among other things. some constraints so that free primary schools and private colleges will have the opportunity to set up departments. At the same time, we are tightening up in some areas where this is necessary. Free schools must be independent of external interests, and they must train pupils to be able to live in a democratic society such as the Danish one, and therefore it is important that we gain better insight into who is donating money to schools. With this bill, we are putting a plug in the hole so that foreign donors who want to influence free schools in an undemocratic way will not succeed in their efforts. There will be a general ban on anonymous donations to free schools, and foreign donations from outside the EU and the EEA can only be granted if a derogation from the Ministry of Education is granted. With freedom comes responsibility, and the free schools, like primary schools, have a responsibility to train their pupils to become democratic fellow citizens who are equipped to move on in Danish society with education, jobs and life in general. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403151946	You're welcome. There is a brief comment from Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403151947	Thank you. It's basically just a question of the hearing answer from the Danish Free School Association. In relation to the part of what is about total bans on anonymous donations, which we also support from the Alternative, the Association of Families writes that they are a little bit concerned about how to look at the schools that are favoured by an active group of grandparents, such as: come and serve and cook for the children sometimes in the schools. For it says in the bill that this donation can apply to donations in the form of goods, services, properties, etc., to be measured at market value. So they are so a little worried about whether they will be caught if it is now that some grandparents come once a week and make their labor available to cook. Are they right about the concern they are raising here?
ParlaMint-DK_20190403152033	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403152034	At least nobody wants to prevent grandparents from coming and cooking in schools. It can be said so clearly. And if you want a more technical answer from the Ministry, we can answer it in writing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403152048	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education Committee. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403152106	The debate has been opened, and the first to speak is Mr Beazley. Mattias Tesfaye of the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403152137	Today we have to deal with a legislative proposal to ensure basic integration training. We must ensure that it can continue and that has the warmest support of the Social Democratic Party. There is something in Danish integration policy that does not work, and there are other measures that work quite well. Integration basic training works better and better, and there is absolutely something on which to build. Refugees and family reunited in Igu start on a 2-year course where they work for 18 months and train for 6 months. It all happens as a completely regular appointment, but on a student's salary. Thus, we avoid so many of the supported offers such as business practices and useful jobs that do not give people proper rights in the labour market. We guarantee a salary which has actually been agreed in agreements, but which is at the same level as pupils and apprentices, and we ensure that there are actually genuine rights to education, for example. on the amu, as part of the course. All in all, I actually believe that Igu has all the ingredients to be an even greater success. In the Social Democratic Party we see particular challenges in getting more women to participate in basic integration training, and we are interested in reducing the dropout. Finally, we believe that it should be considered to expand who has the opportunity to start at Igu. However, all of this should be discussed in close cooperation with employers' organisations and the trade union movement, which is essential if and when further changes are to be made. In those words, however, the Social Democrats can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403152312	Thank you, sir. Mattias Tesfaye. There are no brief comments, which is why we are moving on to Mrs Marie Krarup from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403152332	This bill is a proposal to extend the so-called basic integration training, also known as igu. In the Danish People's Party we have always opposed Igu. Igu is an attempt to integrate people who do not have permanent residence permits in Denmark and who should not be in this country on a permanent basis. Igu addresses foreigners with asylum status in Denmark, i.e.: refugees, and refugees must return to their country as soon as possible. When you spend a lot of gunpowder integrating refugees into the labour market, you are transforming refugees into immigrants, and the Danish People's Party is very opposed to that. It is good to help refugees, but it is not good to turn refugees into immigrants and leave them in Denmark forever, and there is a risk of that being the result when you use Igu against refugees. Companies are of course interested in the scheme because it gives them access to cheap labour. But is that really what we need to use our asylum system for, in other words, to provide companies with cheap labour? No, we do not mean that in the Danish People's Party. And once you've gone through an Igua, you're entitled to unemployment benefit in the event of unemployment. Is it really reasonable in this way to equate refugees with Danish citizens? We do not think so in the Danish People's Party. That is why we cannot support the extension of the basic integration training scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403152512	Thank you to Mrs Krarup. There are no brief comments. Welcome, sir. Mads Fuglede, Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403152526	Thank you for the floor. In the Left, we believe that getting a job and being self-supporting is a key part of living in Denmark. That is why it has also been a major priority for us to ensure that it actually pays to get a job, and the results show that our policy is working. Since 2015, the proportion of refugees and family members in work after 3 years in Denmark has more than doubled from 21 per cent. 43 per cent. That is an incredibly good result. Since the introduction of the Igu scheme in 2016, 1,890 Igu programmes have been registered in 94 of the country's 98 municipalities. However, we are not in the finish line. That is why we also support the extension of the Igu scheme, which helps to set the framework for a successful integration process and has become an important step into the Danish labour market for refugees whose qualifications are not yet in line with the requirements of the Danish labour market. In addition, the Igu improves in a few areas, so that in future it among others. will be possible to extend the duration of maternity or long-term illness. It is good for all of us when more people get to work, because when fewer people are provided by the public and more support themselves, we are able to afford to give priority to our common welfare. But it is also motivating for the individual, who gets something to stand up for in the morning and some skills in the luggage, the day they have to return home and help rebuild their home countries. It is good for the children who experience that they can mirror themselves in that Mom and Dad are part of a working community. Against this background, the Left fully supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403152700	Thank you very much, sir. Mads Birded. There are no brief comments, and that is why it is the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Finn Sørensen from the Enhedslisten... the Red Greens.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403152713	Thank you. The Enhedslisten supports the bill, as there are some minor improvements to the Igu scheme, namely the following, seen with our glasses, improvements: the possibility of extending the duration of the scheme with the maternity and maternity periods and long-term illness periods beyond 8 weeks to which the refugee has been subjected, and the rules on subsidies for the cost of board and lodging are written into the law. In practice this is not an improvement, because that is how the rules have worked, but it is good that it is written into the law. At the same time, the possibility of earning benefit rights is maintained for the Igu students. That in itself is not an improvement, but I would like to acknowledge it anyway, given that it is the Danish People's Party's hardest attack on the scheme that refugees are given the opportunity to earn the right to cash benefits. But it is nice that for once the Danish People's Party is not allowed to swing the tact of the Left and the Social Democrats when it comes to opportunities for better integration. In essence, Enhedslisten believes, and we have always believed that it is a good idea with student courses for refugees who lack some basic prerequisites for engaging in the Danish labour market. However, when the law was presented in its time, we considered that we still think so and have not found any evidence to suggest otherwise that the law is not pulling in that direction overall. We voted against the bill, but for the very opposite reason in relation to the Danish People's Party, because we believe that it is actually a bad tool for ensuring good integration into the Danish labour market. The main reason for this is that in many cases the pupil's salary is so low that it directly calls for the abuse of refugees as cheap labour. This is supported by the fact that there are no special training rights for refugees, other than that you have to have training for 20 weeks in a 2-year period. There is not even a survey of the educational needs of refugees and therefore no guarantee that it will actually be taken into account in the course of education. There is no right of codecision for colleagues in connection with the recruitment of refugees, so that they have the opportunity to ensure that this actually happens on reasonable terms. Nor do the same rules apply to the recruitment of refugees in relation to protection against abuse as in other recruitments under special conditions. And I guess you have to call this an employment on special terms. Last but not least, the refugee is only facing the employer in the situation in which the contract is to be concluded. It's completely bypassing the municipality and the unions. So all in all, it is a real discount scheme which does not guarantee a good integration in the form of permanent employment on the same terms and conditions as the Danish colleagues, on the contrary, invites wage conditions to abuse. The extent to which this happens does not actually show any evidence, and that is why we are willing to give it another chance with the small improvements that are being proposed here. In the evaluation carried out in 2018, the stakeholders considered that: In this context, it should be noted that the system is beneficial for integration, as is the case with companies, municipalities and educational establishments. It is to be hoped, but when you dive a little into the few results that are, of how it actually works, as you can read in that evaluation, it is actually contradicted. That's only 9%. of the courses which end up the refugee being employed in the company in which the Igu has been carried out. So there is plenty of room for improvement on that point alone. That is why I am also surprised that the actors mentioned have not been listened to, and it is, after all, companies, municipalities and educational establishments that actually agree to recommend removing some of the barriers they are experiencing in order for the Igu processes to be able to meet the objective of good integration. For example: Surprisingly, there is a clear recommendation that wage levels should be raised. If you think that igu should be a good tool for integration, you have to remove some of those barriers. The evaluation clearly shows that there are problems, as there is a very large proportion of the courses which are interrupted by the pupil for men as much as 36%. And I guess that's some kind of signal that something's wrong. And it is not necessarily the refugees, it is wrong, because they have wanted to, because they have signed the contract, but have interrupted the process for various reasons which have not been specified in detail. It may be the level of wages, the difficulties with transport distances and the problems. That should be identified if you are serious about it. However, as I said, we are in favour of the draft law. We also think that the main organisation of the trade union movement has some good points in their consultation answers which have not been taken into account in the draft law. So we will continue to work on this in committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403153223	You're welcome, sir. Finn Sørensen, and welcome to Mr. Sørensen. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403153230	Thank you for that, President. We also support this bill for extending the Igu. But it would be a little unbelievable if I stood here and praised the Igu in such a critical way. Because it's not an idea that's grown in our garden. The intention is good, and it is about the fact that too many refugees who come to Denmark can be incredibly difficult to enter the Danish labour market, because the minimum wages agreed between the social partners are high, and if you come to Denmark, you cannot speak the language, and if you do not have a relevant education, it can be difficult to get someone to hire a minimum wage of DKK 115-120. In class, because your labor isn't worth it. That's the problem the Igu is trying to solve. Now it has been given a time to work, and there is also some success with the scheme. But we think it was something simpler that needed to be done: that it was an agreement between the social partners on the integration of refugees into the labour market that came here. We think that would be much simpler and much more effective. But it hasn't been possible, and then this is the second best. But, as I said, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403153406	Thank you, sir. Joachim B. Olsen, and warm welcome to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403153413	Thank you. In the alternative, we also support the bill for the continuation and some improvements and minor adjustments to the Igu. I am also glad that it has not been chosen to give it a new name, for example. basic training for repatriation and self-reliance. No, it is not a lie if we had followed the example of the Finance Act, so thank you for the fact that it still has to do with integration. I think, of course, that in relation to the points made by Mr. Finn Sørensen mentioned, agrees that it could be interesting. We agree, of course, that the Igu is a success, and that is why we are only happy to support the continuation of it, but it could still be interesting to look at what the apostasy that is then caused. For some of the things that I have talked about with the Danish Employers' Association has been that some of the apostasys that are are, for example, in Denmark. Such a thing as the fact that if you're going to take a big driver's license, there are some people who simply don't pass the test. And it is not really because it is necessarily something so unusual that there are some who do not pass a test after a certain number of times. So some of the apostasy may actually be explainable enough, and with regard to other things, we could do something about improving it. So I also clearly support an idea that could be that we should try to get a survey of what is actually the reason why there are those who then fall out of the process. But that's a subtle comment. Overall, we support the bill and are happy to support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403153543	Thank you very much. Then we have come to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, whom I would like to warmly welcome on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403153555	Thank you for that, and thank you to the rapporteurs for receiving the draft law, which, of course, has not given rise to a great deal of debate in this Chamber today, and I am, as it were, very pleased about that. I am particularly pleased to note that there is, of course, very broad support for the legislative proposal and therefore also an extension of the Igu scheme for a further three years. After all, the Igu scheme was originally created on the basis of a joint proposal from the Danish Employers' Association and the then LO, which the government and the social partners then chose to join with the tripartite agreement on better integration into the labour market back in 2016. Because whether you are in Denmark only temporarily as a refugee or you come here as a family, it is only right and proper that you become self-supporting and contribute to Danish society as soon as possible. At the same time, it is absolutely crucial for the integration of the individual into Danish society that one gets into a workplace, meets Danes, learns the Danish language, Danish norms and Danish values, and here the Igu scheme undoubtedly plays an important role by constituting a stepping stone into the Danish labour market for a number of refugees and family members of refugees who, of course, do not have sufficient qualifications to get a job on ordinary terms. In the eyes of the government, the Igu is a success. After a rather cautious start, I think it has to be said, we have now reached 2 000 registered igu processes, and at the moment the trend is that approx. 60 new agreements per year month. The good development must, of course, continue, because it is better for the individual, but of course also for society, for the refugee to contribute through work. Therefore, at the end of February this year, the government concluded a new tripartite agreement with the social partners and the National Association of Local Authorities on the extension of the Igu scheme, which is reflected in this bill. So there is only one thing left to say: I would like to thank you once again for the broad support in this Chamber, and then we will have to start the process in committee afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403153834	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is over. I propose that the bill be addressed to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190403153852	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting, apart from thanking everyone for today's work in the service of the people's government. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 4 April 2019 at 10:00. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
