ParlaMint-DK_20190206125959	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister of Justice (Søren Pape Poulsen): Bill no. L 149 (Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Code. Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration (Inger Støjberg): Bill No. L 150 (Proposal for a law amending the law on foreigners. Bill No. L 151 (Proposal for a law amending the law on foreigners. Bill No. L 152 (Proposal for a law amending the law on foreigners. Transport, Building and Housing Minister (Ole Birk Olesen): Bill no. L 153 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Metro Company I/S and the Development Company City & Port I/S. Bill No. L 154 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on DSB. Minister for Children and Social Affairs (Mai Mercado): Bill No. L 155 (Proposal for a law amending the adoption law, the law on social services and various other laws. Bill No. L 156 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Social Services, the Law on General Housing, etc., the Law on Renting of General Housing and various other laws. Trade Minister (Rasmus Jarlov): Bill No. L 157 (Proposal for a Law amending the Companies Act, the Law on Capital Markets, the Law on Financial Activities and various other laws. Bill No. L 158 (Law on consumer credit companies) and Bill No. L 159 (Proposal for a law on a terrorist insurance scheme in the field of non-life insurance). Tax Minister (Karsten Lauritzen): Bill No. L 160 (Law on the application of the Multilateral Convention for the Implementation of Actions in Double Taxation Agreements to Prevent Tax Burdening and Profit Transfer), Bill No. L 161 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on carbon dioxide tax for certain energy products, the Law on the Tax of Electricity and various other laws. Bill No. L 162 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Recovery of Debts to the Government, Collection Act and various other laws. Torsten Gejl (ALT) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 89 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the introduction of valid absences for pupils on the involvement of youth education and participation in civil society organisations, associations, etc.). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20190206130240	The first question is put to the Minister of Justice by Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206130252	I give the floor to the author to read the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206130254	Thank you, sir. President. The question to the Minister for Justice is as follows: Does the Minister consider that the follow-up to the adopted resolution No. B 123 on smuggling and copycigarettes from the 2017-18 parliamentary year is working as intended?
ParlaMint-DK_20190206130316	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206130318	Thank you for the question. I might want to start by saying yes and no, but I'll explain it a little. I share the honourable Member's wish that hard action be taken against people who smuggle cigarettes into Denmark. They cheat the Treasury for taxes and they put unregulated cigarettes into circulation, and that is not right. Since motion for a resolution No. B 123 was adopted, we have been looking at how we could put it into practice. The police are in the process of implementing. The police have established the new reporting of IT registration of cases of illegal trade in cigarettes. This means, of course, that the police can better identify cases in this area, so that they can pull it out independently. The task force to ensure effective regulatory action in this area has been set up and is part of the cooperation between the Customs Authority and the National Police. The Task Force will shortly hold its first meeting and ensure that the authorities coordinate their efforts in this area with other relevant efforts against organised crime, because things have their coherence in this area. However, the resolution will not be implemented as regards immediate fines at the moment of seizure. Such fines raise significant concerns in relation to Article 3 of the Constitution on the division of powers. This is because there are so-called administrative fines if the police or tax authorities are to be able to impose a fine and charge on the spot. In that case it will be the executive, i.e. the executive. the authorities, and not the judiciary, the courts that impose the fine. And that is why it is not a viable way to go, that is to say to put forward a legislative proposal introducing such administrative fines. On the other hand, there are other ways of imposing fines which do not give rise to constitutional concerns. That is why, in cooperation with the officials of the Ministry of Taxation, my officials are finding an alternative solution that is in line with the motion for a resolution and which will lead to an increase in this area without being at odds with the Constitution. The sharpening has not been fully settled, but I have a strong expectation of that happening within a very short time. I am also sorry, because there I just have to lie down flat and say that there is something here that has not been good enough. I regret that the questioner and the Danish Parliament did not do so by the end of 2018 and that we should of course have done so. We were informed about the status of the implementation of the resolution, because it stood at 1 January 2019, including being informed that actions with immediate penalties raise significant concerns with regard to the Constitution, and that the tightening is therefore carried out in other ways. That is what I have said to the Committee on Legal Affairs in a letter. So we're doing it. Two out of the three things have been implemented, but of course we should have told you that some of it has not been possible. We are in the process of finding another solution and, of course, we should have had to know that by 1 January. So I should like to begin by apologizing for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206130603	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206130604	I would like to thank and acknowledge the Minister's answer to the question. But there is of course a reason why I have chosen to use the time of the Minister of Justice and also my own for that matter. It is, of course, because the Danish People's Party has been astonished that a resolution which has been adopted widely here in the Danish Parliament back to 4 June last year has not been implemented, and it has not been announced that it has not been implemented, according at least to the resolution in relation to the points contained in the motion for a resolution in question. As the Minister for Justice himself says, it was clear that the proposal should enter into force on 1 January 2019. And the sharp listeners or viewers who follow this dialogue know that we are already writing February. But it is no secret that the Minister for Justice represents a party and a government that did not advocate these changes. It is true that if you look at the creation of B 123, that is to say, in relation to the submission of the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs, there was a majority outside the government which voted in favour of the resolution as a whole at that meeting in the last session, and then there was a minority, including the governing parties, who proposed the motion for a resolution for rejection. Of course, the Danish People's Party was bitter and sad. We thought it was a pity that the government couldn't see the reason why we should fight these challenges that we have in ways copy and smuggle cigarettes. But that is why, of course, the joy was great when we came to the Parliamentary Assembly on 4 June last year, when the government then chose to vote in favour of the resolution, despite the fact that the government would not support it in the committee's report. We were wondering about that. It is now that we can get some answers from the Minister for Justice by going down here and asking questions. Of course, I find that unsatisfactory.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206130813	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206130814	Well, I agree with that, and the process is quite right. It is also important for me to say here today that when there is a majority in the Danish Parliament it was finally adopted with a certain That is also why, as I said, the code that was to be introduced has been introduced. The task force has been set up. However, there is the problem of fines and the constitutional issue, which has been under discussion for a long time. That is also why I am very sorry about it, because we should have been informed about it. We should have just informed the questioner that we have this constitutional issue and that we are in the process of finding a solution. I understand you are wondering, because it should not be the case that you are told when the questioner comes and asks, because of course you should have had to know in advance. So I have to say. However, we are well in the process of implementing it, and it will also be good because we are getting a stronger focus on this area with what we have done here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206130914	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206130915	Of course, I am surprised that the explanatory statement about the Constitution now suddenly comes more than six months after Parliament had a majority in favour of this. In connection with the first reading in this Chamber, where I myself was rapporteur, this was not an argument put forward by the government, so there should be some things in this motion for a resolution which clearly describes what our purpose was. No one in any way indicated that it would be contrary to any Danish constitution or any other thing for that matter. So I wonder why that argument has suddenly become so amazingly topical for the government. Finally, let me say that there were three parties that voted against, and that was the Enhedslisten, the Radical Left and the SF, if the Minister of Justice is not in control of the facts himself.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206131000	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206131001	I couldn't remember, to be honest. But at least it was a large majority in the Folketing, so much we can agree on. It is clear that this is something that has become aware of, i.e. this balance around the fines. It is clear that it would be quite effective if the system of fines could be put in place. I'll just say that. In fact, I think that would be really, really effective and good. But we're going to have these doubts, and we're going to have to figure that out. I hope that we can find a way without making legislation, but it may be that legislation needs to be made. All we have to do is solve that, and the questioner and I agree completely with each other, I am sure that if there are constitutional issues, we will of course have to resolve it, because we are not going to go against it. But I agree that we should have had that advance sooner. Anyway, now we've got speed on it, and hopefully we'll find a solution very soon.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206131048	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206131049	One of the arguments used by the government to reject the resolution back in 2018 was that it was not something that was a very big problem and that it was not a growing problem. This was in clear contradiction with the information we had received from the police authorities. We were wondering about that, too. We also mentioned to the Minister that in 2015 alone more than 23 million counterfeit and contraband cigarettes were picked up in Denmark, so I do not think it is a small problem. It has actually emerged here in January that a large batch of 5 million smugglers and copycigarettes have been found in Aarhus Harbour. So I think it is evidence that this is actually a problem that needs to be taken seriously. In conclusion, I would like to ask you about this new big catch, which has been as late as this year. Has the Minister of Justice been made aware of whether it has entered, according to the new guidelines regarding specific case handling?
ParlaMint-DK_20190206131148	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206131149	No, I'm not familiar with that, but I'm gonna go home and check it out right away.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206131155	Thank you. That concludes the question. Thank you to the questioner and thank you to the Minister for Justice. We move on to the next question put to the Minister for Finance by Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen-Jørgensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206131209	I give the floor to the author for a reading. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206131212	Thank you. Can the Minister guarantee in the same way as in the health sector that no savings will be made in the area of children when, according to the government's plans, the municipalities have to take over a substantial part of the immediate health tasks?
ParlaMint-DK_20190206131227	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206131228	Thank you for the question, because it gives us the opportunity to talk about the health reform that the government has put forward. It is an ambitious reform that must ensure that we have a health service that is more decentralised and that, on a wide range of tasks, we have stronger cooperation between general practice, the municipalities and the 21 emergency hospitals. This is necessary in order to cope with the explosive increase that will be in the number of runners and elderly medical patients over the coming years. This also means that on a number of lines we are moving around on other tasks, because, on the one hand, when health care needs to be more decentralised around the 21 health communities and, on the other hand, if it is to be more national about some common levels and quality objectives, the tasks that are otherwise in the regions will also be shared out at other levels. This means that there will be some tasks that will be laid in the municipalities and that there will be some tasks that will be taken into the state, among other things. the question of soil pollution, where we can see that the regions have struggled to deal with these so-called generational pollutions, for example. Høfte 42, Cheminova, Grindstedværket and others. The state must take care of that in the future. We can see that there are other tasks that can be dealt with more decentralisedly, among other things. the dissemination of different tasks, including parts of the social tasks. There it is so important to stick to the fact that when we move tasks, whether we move them one way or the other, we also move the economy to solve the specific tasks. There is some administration today at three levels. Of course, it gets smaller when you need only two levels in the future. There will also be some tasks on which we say that we should no longer do them. That's a saving. However, for the task of caring for our children and for the task of caring for the socially weakest, the economy must, of course, follow where the task should lie. This also means that the answer to the question of whether I can guarantee that the municipalities will be able to afford the tasks they have today in relation to children is yes, because they will have the economy needed to carry on the tasks they have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206131432	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206131433	When I ask the Minister for Finance this question, it is because, when the Minister for Finance is already giving guarantees that there will be no savings in this area, it is nice to have the children with us, especially because the government itself looks up at the early effort. My concern is that the government says the patient first, because then I'm afraid it'll be the children last. I am because part of health will be in some municipalities whose boxes are already under pressure. If Denmark's Statistics projections hit the spot, within the next 10 years we are facing a development with 70,000 more children. This is the same development that the Minister of Finance mentions in some of the disease areas. So we face the same great challenge in the field of children. Now the Minister for Finance says that there are further tasks to be done to the municipalities. The National Association of Municipalities itself believes that the economy does not last. That is why the concern is that when these tasks are to be solved and the minister will also guarantee that no savings can be made on investment, there are only children, schools and the elderly to pay that bill. That is why I am asking the Minister for Finance today: if the Minister for Finance wants to guarantee that health will not be spared, will the Minister for Finance not give the same guarantee when it comes to our children, the ones we will have to live on in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20190206131558	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206131558-2	I would like to say first of all that I am surprised that it is said that it is a problem that we put the patient first, because I almost said: what else? I mean, health care must put the patient first, everything else doesn't make sense. It takes a number of things to put the patient first. It requires skilled staff, it requires the right equipment and it requires sufficient resources, but of course the patient must be put first. Does this mean that in other areas we cannot afford to solve the tasks we have? I do not think so. Since we entered government in 2015, we have increased budgets both for the municipalities and for the regions. We have actually added 6 billion to health care. kr. more, of which 4 billion. kr. has gone directly into the economy of the regions, to ensure that there is affordability to deal with some more tasks. We have also contributed more money to the municipalities to ensure that they can solve the tasks that are involved, among other things. in the area of children, forward-looking. And my prophecy is that no matter who will sit in my chair in the coming years, he will have a task both to ensure that there will be economics for the municipalities, but also to ensure that there will be economics for health care. Now it is a decentralized structure that we have, and therefore I cannot guarantee what happens in each city council across the country. I can only say that we have organised our economy in such a way that in the years to come we can also provide the municipalities with more resources to carry out their tasks.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206131723	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206131724	I have to say that the very large guarantee that the Minister of Finance could give in the field of health cannot therefore be given in the field of children, despite the fact that the challenge of much-increasing tasks over the next ten years is quite parallel to each other. I am concerned that, in this context, the municipalities will have to downgrade the children because the government does not have them at the centre. I think that is wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206131755	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206131756	I am in favour of a decentralized Denmark and a municipal self-government. At one point the Social Democrats did the same. At one point the Social Democratic Party even said that you would make a finger-away reform where you would promise that you would leave it up to the individual municipalities to choose how to solve the tasks themselves. Do I have to understand that the taboo reform has also been lost, that it is no longer there? Because if you are in favour of a 'finger-away' reform, you must also accept that the municipalities themselves give a decentralised priority to what they want. If you want central government from in here, you can make some guarantees. We have said that, now that we take responsibility for how health services should be forward-looking, we can also give a guarantee that more money will be invested in this area. In the area of children, we leave the money to the municipalities. I am quite sure that they will give priority to this, but a guarantee can only be given if they are to be deprived of their local autonomy, and the government will not.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206131851	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206131852	So there is a guarantee of health which, as I understand it, must also be resolved more locally, according to the Minister, but no guarantee in relation to children. That's too bad, of course. I fear that it will cost our day care institutions, compared to the fact that those educators who shout about bad conditions will experience an even harder everyday life. And then I am concerned because the Minister's government will not cover the demographic trait, which means that when more children enter our municipal economy, there will be no more money.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206131923	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206131924	So I note that the Social Democrats have thrown their hands away the reform in the garbage can. Now we want to control and decide, there is no municipal autonomy, there is no freedom. The fact is that it is possible both to create more money for welfare and to keep a tight economic line. This is among other things. by ensuring that we have a proper foreign policy. When we took over after the Social Democratic led government, too many refugees and foreigners came to Denmark. We have tightened up and that means that from the peak that was until this year we have saved over 4 billion. kr. on the reception of refugees. That's 4 billion. kr., you can spend on something else. Some of the money we spend on increasing our development assistance to help in the neighbourhood, others we spend on welfare in Denmark. This means that when you look at how much money needs to be spent in the future, we have made sure that the money is spent on what is right.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206132014	Thank you. That concludes the question. Thank you to the questioner and thank you to the Minister for Finance. The next question has been asked to the Minister for the Environment and Food by Mrs Karina Due, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206132028	I give the floor to the author to read the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206132032	Thank you. What is the Minister's view that a growing number of companies are paying halal certification fees to the Islamic Cultural Centre in order to be allowed to label their products, that there is no greater consumer transparency with regard to the extent and amount of these charges, and that the charges may be channelled into financing terrorist activities, and will the Minister ensure the public about the currently hidden charges?
ParlaMint-DK_20190206132105	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206132107	Thank you for the question. Halal certification is a private scheme for which companies can choose to join and thus pay for, as is the case with other private schemes. Since this is a private scheme which is not administered by the Ministry of the Environment and Food, I am not aware of the number of companies which subscribe to the scheme, what is paid for taxes under the scheme or what the charges are used for. Companies may voluntarily label the information they wish to label, including the slaughter method, as long as the labelling is clear and is not misleading to the consumer. It follows from the rules on information to consumers in relation to the marketing of food. In this context, I would also like to say that voluntary labelling may mean that you as a consumer can choose another product, but it may also mean that you as a consumer can opt out of a product. Food legislation does not impose information requirements in relation to any charges related to private certification schemes, including, for example: halal certification. The rules on food information for consumers are EU-harmonised, and the introduction of consumer information requirements on possible charges for private labelling schemes will require a change of rules at EU level if one so wishes. In conclusion, I would just like to say in reply to the last part of the question that if you suspect that Danish companies, in one way or another, contribute directly or indirectly to the financing of terrorist activities, then I have a crystal clear expectation that you will then take that suspicion to the police.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206132253	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206132254	The minister talked himself about slaughter methods. Now it's like this halal certification fee comes on a lot of food. It's ice cream, it's drinks, it's cake, it's chocolate. I also once thought that it was only a question of method of slaughter, but it is not. I see a problem in that it is a voluntary scheme if it is the case that I and many other Danes would like to be allowed to opt out of it in relation to the products we buy. I cannot be sure that part of the cost of the product does not go to the Islamic Cultural Centre. I see this as a very big problem, and in fact I see it as very misleading to the consumer. One thing is if it was the case that all goods had to be labelled, but here it is voluntarily whether you want to label it. I can look at an item and see if the label is there, but I cannot be sure that there is a mark on all the goods that are automatically paid to the Islamic Cultural Centre. What does the Minister say about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20190206132409	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206132410	If you want more information than that contained in the packaging or marketing of a product, you have to ask the company. So, you have to assume that most of those who get this halal certification are also signposting it on the product, because it's like that's the point of it. If you want to opt out, you can choose a product on which this brand is not. Otherwise, you have to ask the producer. If you have an opinion that a company may not donate money to this or that, then you have to ask the company. It is not indicated on the products either, whether it concerns halal labelling, a political party or anything else.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206132455	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206132456	This means that the Minister finds it completely unproblematic that you can, without knowing it, pay to the Islamic Cultural Centre when you go down and buy your groceries unless you have time to sit by the computer and examine all products to find out if this company is paying for an Islamic cultural community.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206132520	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206132521	I am not quite sure how to understand the question. No matter how much I want to, as a consumer I cannot get any guarantee that the products I buy are not produced by a company which provides support to organisations I do not like, or parties I do not like, or something I do not like. I have no guarantee of that. I understand the questioner to that effect that there are special organisations in which it should be made known. And there I have to say that, derived from the end of Mrs Karina Due's question, the original question is that if anything goes to finance terrorism, it is illegal. It's a hero, quite different category we're in there, and not just something you don't like.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206132610	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206132611	You can imagine that many of these charges for this Islamic Cultural Centre will be sent out of the country and then sent back to Denmark for the behavior of mosques, minarets, and I will come after you, I shall. Does the Minister really think that this is the way, in other words through his food, to pay for such things?
ParlaMint-DK_20190206132634	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206132635	In other words, which certification schemes, which private companies, whose products can be actively chosen as consumers, choose to use as long as they do not mislead the consumer, are simply not within the remit of the Minister for the Environment and Food. And I have no opinion on that in the capacity of the Minister for Environment and Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206132700	That concludes the question. Thank you to the questioner. The next question has been put to the Minister for the Environment and Food by Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206132711	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206132719	Thank you. What is the Minister's attitude to the deeply tragic course in the protected Mountain Forest, where the Danish Nature Agency and the defence with heavy machines have cleared blackberry scrubs and thus destroyed habitats and soil as well as the winter food for the wild horses that volunteers in the World Forests organization had worked for through years of volunteering to create a wild nature, and what will the Minister do in this matter to ensure that it will not repeat itself?
ParlaMint-DK_20190206132743	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206132744	Thank you for the question. First of all, the Danish Nature Agency has made a mistake by not orienting the Forests of the World. The board has regretted that, and the board has to do the same. There is a great local commitment to Mountain Forest Overdive, which this matter should not go beyond, and it has certainly not been the Danish Nature Agency's intention either. I believe that this is due to a misunderstood contradiction between nature care with grazing animals and nature care by means of machine removal of e.g. Blackberry scrub. Mountain Forest Overdrive is one of the most important light-open overdrives in South Jutland, and fouling with blackberries is thus a major threat to the state of nature on the scale. Without natural care, species thriving in low-nutrient environments will be outperformed by fast-growing species, e.g. Blackberries. The blackberries can be kept down with both grazing animals and machines. So it is not the machines that are grazing, it is only the animals that are • but it is not always possible to ensure a high enough grazing pressure. Therefore machine beating is used if necessary. Road tracks for large machines in a natural landscape are not pretty, but breakage and open soil for seed spreading can therefore also have a beneficial effect. There are still blackberry scrubs, and there are still other seedlings on the land, which the horses will also be able to eat during the winter. So I have to challenge the fact that the questioner calls the grubbing-up of a 0.3 ha blackberry scrub a deeply tragic process. In other words, tragedies are caused by human misfortune and not by cutting a blackberry scrub we can just get just a little proportion in the debate here, that will be great. Is the Danish Nature Agency always doing the right thing? No. Fresh eyes on the effort never hurt, which is why I will now look at the Nature Agency's land management not because I think it should be re-enhanced in essence, but because we need to ensure that nature is always in focus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206132945	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206132947	Thank you. I am glad that the Minister recognises that there has been a mistake in communication here, but it is my impression that the error is somewhat deeper. The Forests of the World write that there was a meeting where agreement was reached on how to help this attempt more closely. The cooperation group discussed whether the horses should be helped on their way at the beginning with minor intervention. Here the World Forests suggested burning small areas and clearing small paths and clearings in the densest blackberry scrubs with smaller handheld machines. That could give the horses better access. The whole point of this is that horses don't eat blackberries in the summer, where there are other delicious things in the area. The whole point of this project is that it's in winter when there's nothing but blackberry left that the horses eat these scrubs. That's what this whole experiment was all about. Now it is in the situation that cooperation has been abolished by the World Forests, and that is because the horses have no opportunity to eat anything over the winter, because the blackberry brush is gone. Then you have to feed subsidies, and then you do what you used to do, which is of no use to nature, but which alone is of use, for example. to get meat production, if it were cattle, as you see in many other areas. So does the Minister not agree that this experiment has been destroyed two years into a process that was agreed to last five years and that the whole basic idea has been destroyed by the removal of this blackberry scrub?
ParlaMint-DK_20190206133139	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206133141	At any rate, I agree that I share the vexation that the Forests of the World are no longer part of this project. I think this is a pity and a shame, because I think it is important to have some cooperation with good organisations, including the maintenance of state land, including the areas of the Danish Nature Agency. It is not the case that there is no blackberry scrub anymore, and the grubbing-up that was carried out was carried out too quickly because it was not properly informed. It was because in January it was found that there was frost in the ground, so that you could move out without doing so much damage when you drive out with machines that you would otherwise do if the ground was soft. So it was really a consideration that would be taken here. There was therefore insufficient consideration for the partner, i.e. the Forests of the World. I also find it interesting to do these experiments where they say: Well let's get some animals out, let's do some rewilding, let's get some animals to eat those plants that otherwise spread out all over the place. But we also have to take action when we see that this is not enough. And that was the Danish Nature Agency's assessment in the case here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206133249	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206133250	Yes, it may well be, it was the Danish Nature Agency's assessment, but the biologists who work in the World Forests had a different assessment, and it is also supported by the latest research in nature care. We had just agreed to try, as I said before, with smaller handheld machines. And you can do that without destroying an area, even if it is humid. The possibility of using large machines was used here because you saw that it was frosty weather, but that is what has then ruined the whole idea of the project.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206133330	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206133331	I don't think the whole idea of this project has been destroyed. And I think there is very good reason to lean on the academic assessment by the Danish Nature Agency, which, however, also knows a clue about the care of nature. But as I said in my original answer, do they do everything perfectly? No. Should you look with open eyes at new opportunities? Yeah, of course you do. But so, this conclusion that the Danish Nature Agency has no idea how to care for nature, maybe I think it's stretching a little far. And to call it a tragedy to move 0.3 ha of a blackberry scrub, which otherwise could destroy an excess, I think maybe a tiny bit out of proportion.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206133408	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206133409	This area is something very special, and the Danish Nature Agency has a practice for nature care, which often involves large systematic supplements over the winter and large machines. And that is exactly what makes us never get the fantastic biodiversity we could get in such an area as Mountain Forest here. So how does the Minister see it possible to change the focus of the Danish Nature Agency in the future, so that you get much more focus on biodiversity in these particular areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20190206133444	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206133445	First of all, I want to arrest this with the fact that biodiversity in the area has been destroyed. It is not; blackberry scrubs are still gone; other ornamental plants are still gone. But I think that the very idea of rewilding, which we have also discussed on other occasions, is good and exciting. I think there are many citizens in this country who need to get used to seeing some a little more than slim animals out on these lands, and we shall probably get used to that from an animal welfare point of view. So if you want to keep these areas in the same condition by means of grazing, it also means something for whether the animals are in good condition.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206133524	That concludes the question. Thank you to the questioner and thank you to the Minister. The next question has been put to the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate by Mr. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206133536	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206133539	I will read the question. It says: What is the reason why in the government's climate action there is only one measure: improving biogas plants that reduce climate gas emissions from agriculture?
ParlaMint-DK_20190206133553	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206133554	Thank you, sir. Jens Joel for the question. The government's climate initiative contains a large number of measures in the field of agriculture, so I have to say that I do not recognise the picture that the questioner is drawing up. I must remind you that agricultural conversion is going to be much more difficult than in the energy sector. Where the energy sector has the windmill, the biomass boiler and the solar cells, and where the transport sector has the electric car, agriculture does not have the good solution, which simply needs to be made cheap and rolled out on a large scale. That is why the government, with its climate action, is massively committed to supporting and speeding up the development of new climate solutions for agriculture. Specifically, we have set aside 90 million. kr. to a focused research effort. In addition, in addition to measures to improve biogas plants, which the questioner mentions, there are several measures which will also be able to reduce emissions from agriculture in the long term. This is not least about the partnership with agriculture that we will soon be ready with; we must have the industry on the whole road. It is the best and most durable way of converting a sector that accounts for a significant part of Denmark's exports. In addition, the government's initiative includes measures to promote precision farming and a subsidy scheme for climate-friendly barn technology. And then, together with the author's own party, we have established a land distribution fund which also has the climate in mind. Finally, I would like to remind you that the government's climate action does not end today. The 90 million. kr. we now spend on research, among other things. ensure the development of new solutions and documentation of the effect. We will take stock of this when we regularly take stock of it up to 2030, and when we are going to translate the additional funds we have allocated to climate action.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206133740	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206133741	Thank you for that and thank you for your reply. I agree with the Government and the Minister that we need more research into new methods. On the other hand, I do not agree with the Minister and the government that the only thing we can do in the field of agriculture is research into new methods. I also believe that we need some action, and I believe that, in a way, there are already very well-documented tools that the government should take up from the tool drawer. I ask the Minister why only one of them is included in the government's own table of reduction measures. It is also in question 14 if the Minister will at some point revisit it, where there is a review of what the reduction is actually about the climate impact of the government's proposals. Unfortunately, there is only one measure in the agricultural sector, and it can be said that the Minister has said on national television at least that the only option is to shoot the animals. However, the Ministry's own researchers, who have been asked to produce these reports, which should be included in the Minister's work, have produced a catalogue of measures. It is researchers at Aarhus University who have based themselves on the fact that the five instruments they propose must be some that have a significant impact on the overall emissions; they must be documented so that they can be used in their annual inventories; they must be economically competitive; and they must be without significant negative side effects. Then you could ask yourself why all the things in this catalogue of measures are not part of the government's plan if you actually mean something about the conversion of agriculture.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206133930	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206133931	Thank you for the question. There are a number of proposals. The Climate Council has also pointed out solutions, and so have these scientists. The problem and the challenge is that it is not documented whether they also have a real effect that is consistent with the costs associated with it. Nor has it been found out what exactly the consequences are for agricultural production in Denmark. What we need is to get smarter and find the right measures. For there is a need to make an effort to reduce CO 2 DKK emissions. And by the way, in recent days we have already asked for applications for the 90 million pot. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206134018	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206134020	But again, I think it is fine that the government wants to do research, but we also need to act, and I have to be sure if I understand the Minister's reply correctly, because the Minister is in fact rejecting the fact that it may be relevant here with different reasons or what the Minister has, and then I just need to know whether the Minister disagrees with the researchers' assessment that there are significant effects, that it is well documented that it can be concluded that it is competitive and that there are no negative effects. In fact, you can look up and find a table which says yes or no for every proposal, whether it can be included in the national emission inventory and whether there are significant barriers. And there are plenty of proposals that can be included and where there are no significant negative sides, including the much greater focus on low-level soils.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206134109	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206134111	Compared to the last, the removal of low-level soils, I am actually positive about that. I think there really are some possibilities in that. We need to have that properly constructed, and that is one of the things we are prepared to look at, not least if it can be shown that it will give a real CO2 compared with the researchers, it is quite certain that the proposals that come from them include measures that can be implemented and which are quite reasonable, and that is one of the things we need to look at, and that is why we are placing the 90 million. kr., namely to look at the various suggestions that are and also call in more suggestions.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206134153	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206134155	I would say that if the Minister so wishes, I can read this report for less than 90 million. kr. The point is that we already have the opportunity to do something today. In fact, there are scientists who have been set to find the best instruments. Then the Minister says: if you can prove that there is an effect on the removal of low bottom soils, for example. And to that I would say that in the table produced by the researchers, that is what has the greatest effect. If you make extraction of organic soils without draining, that is where you stop draining, it has the greatest effect. It can be directly included in the emissions inventory and there are no negative side effects. So the question has to be again: how can it be that the Minister will only devote money to finding new methods when scientists have already found ways to get us going with the conversion of agriculture?
ParlaMint-DK_20190206134245	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206134247	In relation to the set-aside of low-level soils, I would say that I am positive about that. We'd love to take a look at that. In relation to the other proposals, I would say that a number of the proposals that are, of course, quite excellent, but we still have to calculate what the economic consequences are. Are they in line with the investment that needs to be made and the possible consequences it will have economically for the agricultural industry in relation to maintaining a large Danish agricultural production, and the risk, if we do not do so and simply impose a lot of new costs on the industry, for the relocation of jobs and jobs and agriculture?
ParlaMint-DK_20190206134322	That concludes the question. Thank you to the questioner and thank you to the Minister. The next question has been put to the Minister of Taxation by Mr. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206134332	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206134335	Thank you. Will the government soon resume the negotiations for a change in the rules on surplus heat that we agreed with the latest energy agreement should be in place in autumn 2018, but where meetings have not been convened since September 2018?
ParlaMint-DK_20190206134350	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206134351	I am sorry, then, that things have not gone as fast as the government had hoped. If the parties had accepted the proposal that I, together with the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate, had put forward, we would have an agreement now. But quite rightly there has been a desire to do it differently, which is why it has taken longer than we expected. However, very soon a new meeting will be called, and I have to say that it is such a battle for words that it does not consider that any negotiations have been interrupted, but that we have had a break to find out if we could reach each other in relation to what the ambitions are, and that is, after all, to have used surplus heat. How do we make them fit in with what we have agreed to spend on it, namely 100 million? kr.? The Minister for Energy and Climate and the Ministry of Energy and Climate have worked on this with the Treasury, and I believe that we have found something that is very sensible. That is why we will very soon present it to the parties behind the energy agreement, and it is all the parties of the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206134503	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206134504	Thank you. It sounds really good if we can get those negotiations back on track. That is true, as the Minister of Taxation says: if only we had accepted the government's proposal, we could have reached an agreement quickly. However, in fact, in a number of parties on both sides of the government, we had a desire to make better use of surplus heat than the government put forward. More importantly, the industry, i.e. the district heating companies, which have to take off the heat, and the companies that can supply surplus heat, agreed that the solution the government had devised would not mean that we would have used the surplus heat. This would mean that we did not have the climate gain we could otherwise look forward to. This would also mean that a number of district heating consumers would be disadvantaged. It has been, if not quiet, that negotiations have not been active for a few months. But if it's an expression that the government is starting to look at real solutions to this problem, then I'm happy. I would like to know whether the Minister of Taxation is actually going to go in the direction of the certification scheme proposed by the industry in order to ensure that no more energy is used than is absolutely necessary. And if you actually have what we could call real surplus heat, which is out in reality, most of it, then it should also be used for the benefit of heating customers.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206134626	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206134628	Some of the wishes have been to look at such a certification scheme. That and a number of other things we have been working on. What can be said is the challenge here: some of the wishes expressed by the parties with which we have negotiated have, after all, gone beyond the revenue framework that we have agreed to set off. It is quite reasonable that we should like to spend more than the 100 million. kr. The biggest challenge for this area is not to put together the model, but to make sure that we spend the money that has been set aside most effectively. Because if you want to spend 1 billion... kr., one could get much more excess heat, but the government does not want to prioritize that. Nor do I believe that the author's party wants to change the framework set out in the energy conciliation.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206134709	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206134710	No, but one has to wonder why it is so difficult to understand it. I asked a number of questions and I won't be too specific in terms of written questions to the tax minister, who translated into Danish means that if we actually succeed in using more surplus heat, is the problem that some revenue from some taxes on coal, for example, is missing? For then it is certainly important to call the climate minister with whom we have agreed that we want to phase out coal, and that is why we can say that we have to deal with that bill in any case. And I think it would be a real shame if some of the tax discussions were to make a good solution for surplus heat stranded, when we have decided anyway that we will be free of coal, what we want so much, also across the parties of the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206134801	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206134802	Well, we have the same desire, and that is to promote excess heat. It is my boring task as Minister of Taxation to say that when we promote surplus heat, we displace taxed heat, which means that it costs some money. And even if you wish you could just magicate that bill away, you can't. Perhaps we can make a better model than the one originally put forward by the government, and we have looked at this constructively, and I would very much like to discuss it. But that does not change the fact that if you really want to promote surplus heat, you have to go beyond the framework we have agreed. It is not because the government is necessarily opposed to it, but that premise must be agreed on, and it has also been laid down in some of the questions, Mr President. Jens Joel has put me in charge of taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206134851	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206134852	After all, we are getting closer to the heart of the matter, because the Minister is also saying: if we really want to promote excess heat. Perhaps you could say that it is a little too bad if we have some negotiations which are actually about the fact that surplus heat should not be a success, because then another problem arises. And I would just like to draw the attention of the Minister of Taxation to the fact that today there is a major change in the heating sector, which also means that there will be less income in the box, because all the transition to biomass, for example, which has to be pushed through, because the right solution is not being worked out in time, also means that there is a lack of money. And it is a pity if there is a bill that we have done nothing and that the reason why we do nothing is that we are afraid that if we do something, there will be a bill. Well, we're just gonna have to sit down and sort this out for the benefit of the climate and the heat consumers.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206134940	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206134941	Well then, I can tell you that is and has always been the desire and objectives of the Minister of Energy, Supply and Climate and my Government, and if there is a willingness of the Social Democrats and the other parties involved in the energy settlement to stretch and compromise, I am sure that we can make a sensible model. But I just want to say that I can conjure up within the financial framework that has been set aside and play with models, but I can't conjure up millions that aren't there. And when, at some point, a Social Democrat arrives at my post in hopefully many years' time, he will not be equipped with those opportunities either. But I look forward to the negotiations and to finding a good solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206135021	That concludes the question. Thank you to the questioner and thank you to the tax minister. The next question has been put to the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing by Mr. Rasmus Prehn, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206135033	I give the floor to the author of the question for a reading. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206135036	Thank you, President. Does the Minister believe that the X-buses in Jutland will have better conditions for driving across municipalities when the regions are no longer responsible for public transport?
ParlaMint-DK_20190206135047	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206135048	Thank you for the question. The blue X-buses with a large white X on the sides of the buses have been the relatively successful attempts by the Danish transport companies for about 25 years to make a product differentiation of the buses in and across traffic companies. With the X-bus routes there are longer regional bus routes between large urban communities in Jutland with relatively few stops and thus with a higher travel speed served by buses with special requirements for interior design and equipment. It is the board of joint local transport companies which will in future also be responsible for organising this part of regional public transport. Regional bus routes, including the X-bus routes, will in future be jointly financed by the municipalities by transferring the funds currently used by the regions to the municipalities as State subsidies. The government thus ensures that if there is a desire to maintain today's traffic, the economic opportunities will be there. If the questioner with, and I quote, better conditions for driving across municipalities refers to the level of service and coordination of X-buses crossing municipal boundaries, then I believe that the reform creates the conditions for better conditions for X-buses. This is not least due to the fact that the joint local transport companies are responsible for organising the level of regional bus traffic, with the possibility of subsequently charging financing for this from the municipalities, broken down by population. I have outlined here the vision of the overall framework of the transport companies in this area. The final organisation and detailed management model for the transport companies will be established when a political agreement is expected to be reached in the spring.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206135240	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206135241	Thank you very much to the Minister for this answer. When we in the Social Democratic Party raise this question, it is because several mayors have expressed concern about the government's level in this area. They are afraid that the financial compensation they receive does not match the costs they have. So they see for themselves that it can be harder for them to make a sufficiently good bus cover, at least where it is more sparsely populated. There are a number of mayors who have voiced criticism of this. That's one thing. The second point is that although the municipalities are very good at many things and are doing a great deal of work in the field of core welfare, we know that it can be difficult to agree across, and it is well known that we have seen examples that some municipalities have not been willing to pay for other municipalities to have a bus service. Can the Minister guarantee that we will not have any municipalities that are experiencing much worse bus coverage than the one that has been in the past or that municipalities are directly opposing each other, because some municipalities will not be paying for better services for passengers in other municipalities? Is it not a little messy that we no longer coordinate at a regional level, but that everything should be added to the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20190206135405	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206135406	Let me make it clear with seven-inch nails: there is by no means a saving exercise. There's no means to save this exercise. What is happening is that today it is well over 2.8 billion. DKK, which goes to the municipalities, and 1.1 billion. I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, and I would like to thank him for his excellent work. kr. be transferred to the municipalities and thus lie in the municipal coffers. The municipalities can then decide together on the regional routes. It's the same way as when you're in the country choosing people for the Folketing to sit in here. Then you had to make the argument, as Mr. Rasmus Prehn comes along, say: Can we then guarantee that those elected in North Jutland will also allow there to be transport services in South Jutland? This will also be the case in the joint local transport company. Yes, I believe that sensible decisions will be taken and that one municipality at one end of the region will also allow there to be a reasonable service at the other end of the region, just as we here in the Folketing, although we are elected in North Jutland, also allow good traffic in South Jutland.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206135513	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206135514	I think that anyone who goes into politics wants to make it a bigger whole and that you can also undo others to get a better service. Of course you can, and fortunately for that. However, it has been seen that when a municipality, which is already under pressure and has to cut older people's care, has to cut school, has to cut other places where it really hurts, then one of the places that seems to be a little easier to save may be where you help to contribute to a bus route that other municipalities' citizens enjoy. That is why we are at risk of having a service falling between two chairs. Does the Minister not even recognize the problem and the many mayors who have called out about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20190206135600	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206135601	I am quite sure that the municipalities that are part of the regional transport company can find a way of looking at each other's concerns and that, even if you live at one end of the region and have a desire to have a regional service to your own municipality and to the passengers from there and to other municipalities and through other municipalities, you can also see that other municipalities have a similar need. And then you get together and use these regional funds as best you can for the benefit of the whole region. I think you can find that out in the municipalities. I do not have the suspicion of capable mayors and skilled municipal councillors that others may have.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206135641	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206135642	It is therefore a somewhat weary and uncertain answer that comes from the Minister here, and it is not, of course, about having mistrust of the mayors. It's all about listening to what they're saying, and they're warning against this. Is it not at all a matter of concern to the Minister that the mayors are out to warn against this? The last question I would like to ask is: if the solution in the capital is that we should create a new HOT, where we should coordinate much more, coordinate, why is it that the answer in Jutland is that it should all be blown up into atoms and added to the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20190206135708	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206135710	It's not supposed to be blown up in atoms in Jutland. After all, there is still a regional transport company, and the regional transport company is made up of the municipalities located in the region and the regional transport company coordinates regional traffic. Then it's just a matter of money. It's the money, isn't it? It's the money. It's the money. Rasmus Prehn finds it very, very terrible that the money that is going to the regions today is being distributed to the municipalities, so that, through self-government and municipal autonomy, they can decide what to look like in their region.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206135745	That concludes the question. Thank you to the questioner and thank you to the Minister. The next question has been put to the Minister for Health by Mr. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206135756	Here's the questioner for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206135759	Thank you, President. Can the Minister guarantee that after the possible closure of the regions there will continue to be an emergency response at Nordals?
ParlaMint-DK_20190206135809	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206135810	Thank you for the question. All citizens must be confident that they will receive the necessary help if they are suffering from acute illness or an accident. This also applies, of course, to the inhabitants of Nordals. It is also quite clear from the health reform that the government expects that the emergency preparedness already placed will not be moved in the coming years and that there will be no deterioration in coverage. Unfortunately, we have seen that the regions have proposed several times in different parts of the country. So the government has no plans to close down or move emergency preparedness at Nordals, and we do not, because the government gives high priority to the security of citizens in the emergency area. That was among other things. also why, in the previous Finance Act 2018 together with the Danish People's Party, we set aside funds for an extra emergency medical helicopter in Denmark, so that we could further expand our emergency preparedness. The emergency area is also a key part of the government's approach to health reform, because it is an area where we do not think the regions have delivered well enough and where there are too great differences across the country in response times, for example, and how well citizens can feel covered by preparedness. In concrete terms, the government will ensure even more finely masked health care with even better emergency preparedness than what we have today. This also means that, with the health reform through the proximity fund, we are preparing to deploy between 10 and 15 additional emergency preparedness in the form of emergency medical cars, emergency cars and ambulances in those areas of the country where there are special needs and where therefore there is a need to improve the response times that are today, because, as I said, there is too much variation in response times across the country today. Finally, I would also like to point out that, with the reform of health, we are going to set up a national medical watch number, 113, for emergency visitation and treatment, so that everyone can have the same high quality of emergency preparedness, no matter where in the country they live. So the government wants to strengthen emergency preparedness because we do not think it is good enough today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206140009	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206140010	Thank you for your answer. I note that the Minister for Health mentions a number of types of emergency services... helicopters, medical ambulances and other services... but does not explicitly mention emergency services vehicles in his reply. The reason why I mention this is, of course, that what is particularly important in Nordals is that a very local solution has been made, it has to be said. It was originally a solution which, back in 1999, was established in connection with the then Nordborg Municipality, which, in cooperation with a local company which had a standing order, is the case with large industrial companies, which secured this emergency car, which is therefore a rather special measure. It's cheaper than a medical car would be, but you got a synergy effect out of it. Only in 2011 did this scheme become a regionally funded scheme. It can be said that what has been particularly driving for the system to be established has been local politicians, and it has been regionally based politicians, and therefore, in my question, when I stress the concern about the regions, understood as regional councils, and whether such a system can continue, it is, of course, because it is a classic example of where politicians do not find solutions. What is fine, on the other hand, is also a system which, for society, is a little cheaper than a traditional solution: about 1 million. kr. It is cheaper because some synergy effects are used. But the effect is very clear. In normal circumstances you will have a response time of 15 minutes; on Nordals you have a response time of 6.1 minutes because of this specific action, which is all the other things that make sense. So I did not actually hear a real guarantee in the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206140212	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206140213	No, but it's the case that sir... Benny Engelbrecht almost on a daily basis in these weeks touring around and creating fear and claims that we will put this and that down. After all, the emergency car does not appear on the question that Mr. Benny Engelbrecht has asked. There is talk of emergency preparedness, and that is what I am responding to. As far as the emergency car and the good cooperation with Danfoss are concerned, it is, of course, an agreement that the Regional Council of the Region of Southern Denmark will have to address to me this spring in relation to whether you want to extend it, and there is nothing in our health reform that prevents you from continuing to have such good local agreements. On the other hand, what is needed to ensure is that there is not so much variation in emergency response across the country. The questioner's own colleague, sir. Troels Ravn, just in postal numbers, has calculated the emergency response times in the Region of Southern Denmark, which show great variations, and I understand that the Social Democracy is completely satisfied with that. There I can say that we in the government believe that we need to strengthen emergency preparedness both at Nordals and in the rest of the country, in order to ensure that we have a more uniform level. Because there is a demand for rapid response and security throughout the country, and that is why we want to invest in more emergency medical cars, ambulances, emergency services across the country. And no, there is nothing to prevent the good cooperation with the emergency car at Nordals from continuing in the future, and it can be hoped that the South Denmark Region will in the meantime also be able to extend this.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206140332	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206140333	I very much hope that the Southern Denmark Region, where the chairman of the Pre-hospital Committee, Mads Skau, has indicated that there is a great deal of satisfaction with the cooperation, will reach an agreement before any closure of the regions takes place, because this will mean that it will be guaranteed for five years in the future. The minister claims I'm spreading insecurity. I hope the Minister can demonstrate this. At least I don't recognize that. And then I just allowed myself to assume that, since the Minister is elected in the area, the Minister was actually also aware of the conditions surrounding the preparedness at Nordals.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206140415	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206140416	You can have a lot of discussions. In these days, I can see that social democrats are questioning whether there can be a hospital in Tønder, I can see that Mr. Benny Engelbrecht questions whether there might be an eye clinic at Sønderborg Hospital, and now we are here today, where Mr. Benny Engelbrecht questions whether there may be an emergency response at Nordals. If it is not about the social democrats touring these weeks with claims that can cause fear in relation to how our strong health care can become even stronger, then I do not know what it is. But I think it's an unspeakable basis. For our health reform is about strengthening health care, and specifically with regard to emergency preparedness, it is about spending more money to get more ambulances, emergency medical cars, emergency preparedness across the country so that we have a higher level of safety throughout the country. In fact, we do not think it is fair that there are Danes living in regions of the country where the regions have not adequately carried out that task. That is why we want to strengthen it in the future, and I therefore hope that the Social Democrats will be involved in this. Because so far, I've just heard that you're against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206140513	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206140514	If the minister thinks that there is a problem with the eye clinic at Sønderborg Hospital, then that sounds interesting. I don't recall saying that in any article. But now, we'll have to see if there's an insecurity about it. I would really like to know whether the Minister for Health is also listening to the concerns raised in the hinterland which I assume the Minister for Health knows, namely in the Left Party. Too many of the concerns that the Minister has just outlined, among others. The concern about Tønder Hospital, too, is something that the Left Members of the House are calling attention to.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206140600	I would remind you of the speaking time allocated here at Question Time. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206140603	I have to say that the questioner himself confirms that the questioner has been out on a number of occasions, like raising doubts about good solutions in our health services, and that is why I really just need to say, just as this issue is about emergency preparedness at Nordals, that our health reform is going to strengthen health care in Denmark. The whole purpose of making a health reform is to strengthen a health service that works well in many areas, but where there are also places where it works less well, for example. the context of it, but also the emergency response, where there is too much variation across the country. This applies both to ensuring security at Nordals, where fortunately you have a good arrangement today that you can continue, but also elsewhere, for example. in North Jutland, where you find that ambulances rarely arrive within 15 minutes than they do anywhere else in the country. That is one of the things that needs to be given greater attention, that is, to strengthen emergency preparedness throughout the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206140653	Thank you. That concludes the question. Thank you to the questioner. We move on to the next question put to the Minister for Health by Mrs Astrid Krag, the Social Democrat, with Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen, the Social Democratic Party, who enquires.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206140706	I give the floor to the author of the question for a reading. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206140708	Thank you for that, President. The question is: Does the Minister believe that it is possible to move 500,000 treatments from the hospitals to the near health care system without having to accompany a single doctor from the hospital, as Lars Løkke Rasmussen promised to the assembly at the debate meeting in Hovborg, cf. The newspaper Denmark on 1 February 2019?
ParlaMint-DK_20190206140732	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206140733	We in the government want to strengthen the close health care system, both in the municipalities and in general practice, and that is why we will also be investing in equipping the close health care system so that it is geared towards lifting the task. Fewer outpatient treatments must be carried out in hospitals and municipalities must prevent more admissions. It is really about more citizens having to have their treatment closer to home so that they can avoid an unnecessary trip to the hospital, because we think that there has been an equal centralisation. In the case of relatively uncomplicated controls and sampling, there is also a need for greater proximity to the health provision that we have, so that more treatments come close. It is also a question of ensuring a better coherence in the efforts we have in our health services, so that, for example, we do so. offer our elderly fellow citizens a better connection in a course of treatment or offer our citizens with mental disorders that there is more coherence between what is happening in the municipality, what is happening in the psychiatric hospital and what is happening in the home of our own doctor. That is why the government also has an ambitious objective up to 2025 to prevent 40,000 admissions and to ensure that 500,000 outpatient checks can be carried out instead of in a closer interaction in the near health care system and closer to where people live. It is about making things both different and smarter, and the treatment change can take place both directly, by solving more treatment tasks in the future outside hospitals, but also indirectly by strengthening prevention and visitation so that unnecessary hospital visits are avoided. Firstly, some tasks have to be moved from the hospital to the nearest health service. As I said, it may be outpatient visits, controls and medical care for patients who need easier follow-up. But it can also be training after e.g. a heart surgery and cardiac rehabilitation that can be beneficial in the near area. Secondly, this means that the competences that need to be in the near health care sector must be strengthened, by employing more people, but also by enhancing competence in the near health care sector. And that is also why, with the proximity fund's 6 billion. kr. is going to invest in that area.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206140940	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206140941	Thank you. This means, I understand, that the Minister for Health fully agrees with the guarantee given by the Prime Minister to those who attended that electoral meeting, or the Left meeting was well, in Hovborg, to which we have referred here, that not a single employee in the hospitals will be moved into the near health care system, despite the fact that the Minister has also repeated that 500,000 treatments will be removed from the hospitals. So just to make it clear: I hear the Minister agree with his President, our Prime Minister, that not a single employee should be moved into the near health care system. Is that correct? Then I would like to turn to the second question: if so many tasks are to be moved out into the near area, 500,000 treatments; that is many treatments; and you do not want to move any of the staff in our hospitals, with the expert knowledge, the professional skills they have, into the near health care system, then it is a bit of a system that needs to be built up so that the citizens can be comfortable about this. The Minister is now saying that investment must be made to equip the nearest health care system. You have to hire more staff, and that is why I would like to ask the Minister: what kind of money are you going to do this for? We were now discussing here last week how the funding of the proximity fund is not linked. If we zoom in on the money in the proximity fund, the 6 billion. kr. kr. for installations and the 3 billion. kr. for operations over 6 years, it is 0.5 billion. kr. There's a long list of things you want for this money, and now I understand from the minister that it's also here, the answer is how you can lift 500,000 treatments from the hospitals without moving any staff. It has to be found in this money. I would just like to say to the Minister that hiring 1,000 more nurses costs 0.5 billion. kr., and then all the money that has been set aside in the proximity fund is spent. And then you haven't looked at everything the Minister has just been talking about: more ambulances, emergency cars and medical cars and more educational positions in general medicine. So can the Minister not answer how to ensure that there are the skills, both professional skills, but also in relation to employees enough to carry out these huge, very many tasks that you want to move out of the hospitals?
ParlaMint-DK_20190206141159	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206141159-2	But I understand from what the questioner says that the Social Democratic Party is against moving treatments into the near health care system, is against more proximity to health care. I think that is really a pity; it is sad. I mean, I think citizens need more offers to get closer to where they live. Social democracy has even talked about it in the past, but I understand that you do not want to talk about it anymore. Because now it's unrealistic, now it's something you're against. How sad if that is the level at which we are taking this debate. I hope, then, that the Social Democratic Party will help to strengthen the close health care system, will help to invest money in getting more medical practices across the country and managing the medical coverage challenges, getting the competence promise out in the municipalities and building modern health houses so that more tasks can be carried out more closely. That is exactly what the health issue is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206141250	Then it's a co-questioner, sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen, who has the floor, 1 minute. Did I skip one? I'm sorry. It's the questioner again.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206141301	Now it's almost a conspiracy. So, the Minister spends all his speaking time talking about what the Social Democracy does not want, instead of talking about what the government wants, and the President denies me my right. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Dear Minister, don't spend all your speaking time not answering what I'm asking, but talk about what you don't think or what the minister doesn't think the Social Democratic Party wants. We want to strengthen the close health care system. In October, we came up with our health issue, and proximity is one of the three main pointers that we believe to be crucial to our health care. We want to have close hospitals and we want to have joint operation of the close offers in regions and municipalities because we have a huge problem with the gambling that the government wants to throw our health care into, where you want to move so many treatments out of our hospitals without answering how to make sure the system is there in the municipalities. This is not just something we say on the part of the Social Democrats. The National Association of Municipalities warns against this, the Elders Case... I know that I've told the government, and they've also said it in the open space: don't do this before you've built it up. After all, the Minister skilfully does not answer that question at all. What kind of money is there to build what needs to be built up in the municipalities so that this becomes realistic and safe for patients?
ParlaMint-DK_20190206141406	I would just like to make it clear that there is no desire to deny the Social Democratic Party the floor. On the contrary, I am long with the speaking time and we share the sun and the wind equally. But the Minister answers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206141414	Thank you. But if the Social Democrats mean something by what they have written, that they want more closeness, then I do not understand that they stand here and are so opposed to the government wanting to invest in the near health care and move treatments out. It is an enormous pity that we will not then be involved in creating a proximity fund so that we can spend 6 billion in exceptional circumstances. kr. to invest in modern medical practices and health houses in the municipalities, where more of the treatments for which many patients today have to drive into hospitals can be carried out. That is also why we need to train more general practitioners, train 2 000 extra nurses over the coming years, so that we also have the hands to do so. And that is why we have just concluded a dimensioning agreement in terms of training more social and health assistants so that we can strengthen the close health care and get more treatments closer to where people live. That's what they need.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206141501	Then it's the co-questioner, sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen, warmed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206141507	Thank you, President. What is clear when I sit here and listen is that the government and the Minister are totally lacking in clarity in relation to the challenges facing our health services at the moment. Let us just look at the primary area, that is, the close one we are talking about. There is not very good economy in the municipalities and there is a shortage of staff all around. The figures for general practice, the practitioners, are, after all, horrifying. 70% has closed the approach to new patients, and 110,000 are waiting to have their own medical practitioner, a figure that will rise to 300 000 in four years, and then the Minister cannot give an answer as to who will solve the tasks to which Mrs Astrid Krag refers here. In other words, 500,000 treatments, which must be moved from the hospital to the primary sector, 40,000 admissions, which must be avoided. However, it is amazing that the Minister believes and dreams that it can happen in 2025 with the major challenges and problems we have now.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206141611	Then it is the Minister who has one minute to answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206141614	I can then understand from the Social Democratic Health Rapporteur that one does not believe in the professional basis that lies within the Danish Health Authority, in relation to how we have reached this ambitious objective of how we move more treatments close to where people live. After all, there is a professional recommendation from the Danish Health Authority, in relation to which patient groups it is and where it is also technically sound. And yes, a capacity needs to be built out there. That is exactly what the government is saying, because we need to invest in our general practices, we need to get more modern health houses out in the municipalities, so that more treatments can be carried out close to in close combination between hospital functions, which are currently regionally operated and will continue to be regionally anchored, and so more offers that lie out at our own doctor and in the municipality.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206141657	Then it's the co-questioner again.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206141700	This is where we think the chain is jumping off. We have written a health issue which I believe the Minister has not read many times, and other times I can hear that the Minister is embarrassingly aware of what we have written because the government has copied very, very many elements. Indeed, the government also spends the money that we dropped off when we were in government last, in relation to health houses • 800 million. kr. But the thing about sticking the public in the eye and telling it something is that you think you can move these tasks before you've built up professionalism and capacity out there. Patients may suffer from this, and there is no quality and proximity associated with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206141740	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206141742	Yes, and that is not what the government's health reform is all about, and it is good that we can clarify it today, so that Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen cannot tour around with the claim further forward. This is a development plan for health care where moving tasks out requires that we build a greater capacity, that we get the skills raised, that we create the facilities out in the near health care system. That is why we are creating a proximity fund of 6 billion. kr. And how nice it would have been if the Social Democratic Party, for example, were to do so. had trained several practitioners when they were themselves in government. After all, they did not do so; they failed to do so and only lifted the dimension of 12 posts. Now we lift by 160 so we solve the medical coverage challenges in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206141820	It's the main questioner again.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206141826	But what the government has come up with doesn't add up. I tried to do the math before with the 6 billion. kr. in the proximity fund. There's 0.5 billion. kr. to be operated annually. This will both finance enough more staff with the right skills without moving anyone from the hospitals into the nearest health care system, so as to reduce by 500,000 treatments in our hospitals, 40,000 admissions, but it will also ensure a higher level of competence in the municipalities in general practice, more ambulances, more emergency cars, more emergency medical cars, coherent emergency care throughout the country, more educational positions in general medicine. The money is not there for this, and those who are going to lose and those who are going to get stuck are the patients who are being thrown into this very risky exercise when you are not sure that the competences are there in the municipalities. And it's not just a warning flag. We have therefore heard from the Social Democrats the Elders cause and other actors raise exactly the same concern. I think it is thought-provoking that the Minister should use his speaking time to scold the Social Democracy rather than reply. The minister could do the math to show how you can afford all these things for so few...
ParlaMint-DK_20190206141932	We need to pay attention to the speaking time. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206141936	I understand that the Social Democratic Party believes that it is very risky to move more treatments into the near health care system, and there we see so differently in health care, because we want the government to strengthen the close health care system. That is why we have created a proximity fund of 6 billion. kr., where we are just able to build even more modern health houses in the municipalities, invest in general practice, create more main educational positions, something that Social Democracy neglected last time when you sat in government, so unfortunately we are looking into some medical coverage challenges that have not been resolved in time, because from 2011 to 2015 only the dimensioning was lifted by 12 places.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206142011	That concludes the question. We move on to the next question put to the Minister for Health by Mrs Astrid Krag, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206142019	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206142021	Thank you. The question is: what does the Minister think the consequence should be if the municipalities do not meet the mandatory quality standards for treating patients with chronic diseases and elderly medical patients?
ParlaMint-DK_20190206142035	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206142037	Thank you for the question. After all, the Danish Health Authority has been instructed to draw up binding standards for the municipalities' existing health tasks. It is an important part of the government's health reform that we have established binding professional standards in this way, so that as a patient you can be confident about what kind of treatment you get in the municipalities, regardless of which municipality you live in. Standards will be based on evidence and best practice, and the relevant professional companies and patient organisations will obviously be involved in the preparation. And it goes without saying that municipalities will also be involved in drawing up standards so that we ensure that standards are based on practice. The standards will describe target audiences, professional initiatives, the necessary competences, but a framework will also be established for monitoring standards so that we can follow up on how they are implemented and follow up if it is not done in this way. In addition, the standards will also be included in the Board of Patient Safety's supervisory work, and as the questioner may be aware, there are already standards for municipal emergency functions. We introduced them with binding standards from last year onwards, which the municipalities have adopted, and which I actually find they are happy and are in full swing with implementing. So I have no doubt that the municipalities will do the best for their citizens, and that is why these are not standards that are about not taking account of the fact that our municipalities are different. However, we need to have professional standards, which are also based on what is good quality, what is of evidence when we talk about health care, whether in rehabilitation, in a number of rehabilitation courses or in the social psychiatry area. And when more standards are set in several areas with close involvement of the municipalities and with close follow-up, I also have great faith that the municipalities want to work with them and implement them. We will then be able to discuss the challenges in good dialogue with KL, and as I said, the Board of Patient Safety will obviously also focus on this in their supervisory work so that patients can be safe.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206142244	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206142245	Thank you for that answer, which wasn't superconcrete. But let me come back to what the consequences are for the municipalities, because I assume that there must be a fairly firm consequence if you do not meet the requirements otherwise it does not make much sense to call them binding and to call them demands. But it may be that the Minister will elaborate on this in his reply. What I got from the Minister's reply was that you will follow it up if the municipalities do not deliver what you think they should do professionally. And when this is so intriguingly interesting and it is really in the wake of the discussion we had before, it is of course because we need when some of the weakest patients we are dealing with, the multi-sickness, the chronicles, the elderly medical patients, the weakest patients, that there is both security and high quality about the treatment they receive. And what the government is doing is that so many treatments will be moved out in such a short time without being able to point out where the funding comes from, so you are sure that there are the right competences. And that's what's going on here. Therefore, it is also relevant to know how to actually ensure that the so-called binding quality standards here are anything but fine declarations of intent on a piece of paper. Before the Minister says, as she says, every time she speaks, when a social democrat raises a concern that there is no realism in it and that there is no economy in what the government has put forward, moreover, backed up by several health economists, who also cannot see how it can be linked. I would just like to say to the Minister: the Social Democratic Party would very much like to take a look at where we can move things closer. We have pointed to hospitals, we have pointed out several outgoing emergency teams, and we have pointed out, contrary to the government, a duty for newly trained doctors, so that we can actually ensure a solution to that problem, Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen also mentioned, with over 110,000 Danes who do not have access to their own general practitioner, and where the number will rise dramatically in the next 4 years to almost 300,000. After all, the government does not have an answer to the short line here, and that is our concern. It's not that we don't want to be involved in many of these changes, but the numbers are too high; the economy doesn't fit in with the government's proposals, and that worries us. And that, in all peace, is what we are trying to get the Minister to put forward. Specifically here, I would like to know what it is that can have consequences for the municipalities if they do not comply with the so-called binding quality standards to be made.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206142503	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206142506	I'd be happy to answer that. Now, of course, this issue is very much about quality standards, and that is why I would like to start from the part of the ten questions that were listed now. It is of course important to say that quality standards for us are a prerequisite for ensuring more treatments in the near health care system, because as a patient you must be comfortable with the professional standard that is in the offers that are located in the municipalities. And there's this new break, because we haven't had this systematically in municipal health services in the past. That is why we say that we need to have a professional framework for this, and it is clear that there will then also be a dut-debate with the municipalities in relation to what should happen to the task solution. Unfortunately, we have not managed to make a compensatory reform in here, but there we have also written in our health proposal that this has to be looked at afterwards, so that the municipalities have the economy that is sufficient to increase quality and provide a professionally sound framework for the near health care sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206142600	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206142601	Well, it's very nice that the minister calls it a new break. This is something that we need to get to grips with if so many tasks are to be moved out and it has to be done as quickly as the government points out. Then there will have to be a very clear framework for patients not to experience that the bottom just goes out of quality. It is the huge concern that is now, and that is the, Elders Case flakes, it is the, health economists flakes when they say: It simply seems unrealistic so quickly to be able to move out so many treatments with the economy the government is setting up there. That is why I would like to say that we do not have much time, and it will soon be very technical to hear whether the Minister would not like to put forward how to allocate the operating resources of the proximity fund to all the many things you say you can distribute them with that money.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206142643	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206142645	Thank you. I do not know what the questioner refers to in relation to the Elders case. The dialogue I have had with the Elders Case is, in fact, very much about the fact that what the government is proposing is right and important, namely that we have binding professional standards, quality requirements for local authorities' offers, for close health care. So we say that it has to be based on evidence and professional standards, what it is for an offer one gets when it comes to rehabilitation, stroke, cancer rehabilitation and also older medical patients. What are they meeting out there? So I don't experience, as the questioner says, the Elders case should be against this at all. And that is why I believe that those I see most against it are unfortunately the Socialists. Because we need to raise the quality of our close health care, and we do so with the reform of health.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206142727	Then the ride has come to the co-questioner, Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206142732	Thank you very much, President. The Elders Case is concerned that professionalism is not in place when the task is moved. Well, 2025 is just in a minute, and that's the challenge. The Minister says that the Minister is confident that the municipalities will work with, and the Minister also says that the Minister is confident that the municipalities will do the best for the citizens. Yes, but the challenge is, of course, if they can, that is what the challenge is, and I would like to ask you something. The minister and the government are showing geographical inequality. Yeah, that's easy. What is the situation in what the government is putting forward here is that geographical inequality can increase further. Can the Minister not confirm that one of the causes of geographical inequality is that there is real inequality in the economy, in the ability to recruit staff and in the composition of the population?
ParlaMint-DK_20190206142837	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206142837-2	In any case, I have to say that it has not improved the situation, that the Socialists did not have the courage to make a compensatory reform when the government proposed it. You wavered because you didn't want to do that. There is a need for compensatory reform, and we are also writing this in our health reform proposals, in relation to having a look at what kind of an economy there is. The Socialists did not have the will to do so. We are, in fact, proposing that it is a duty for a Parliament when a health reform has been carried out. In relation to geographical inequality, I fully agree with the questioner that there is too much geographical inequality. That is precisely what is one of the focal points of government health reform: that both the social inequality and the geographical inequality that we see too much in our health services, where we see there is too much difference between region and region, but also from municipality to municipality, on this kind of offer. That is why we want to introduce binding professional standards so as to ensure the quality of the services that you as a citizen meet in the municipality today. When the questioner says that these are tasks that you want to move out, then it is clear that this also applies to new tasks. But that also applies to the tasks of the municipality today. After all, the task of rehabilitation is a municipal task, and we will also set binding professional standards on a number of points in order to improve quality in the interests of patients.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206142949	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206142950	I would very much like answers to the question: what happens if a municipality does not in any way meet the quality standards set? The city can't, they want to, but what does the government do? It will be a geographical inequality affecting the population, and there are many examples of it today. Now the government has been in power, the Left has been in control for three and a half years, and nothing has happened in this area. What will the government do if, in future, a municipality cannot meet the quality standards set?
ParlaMint-DK_20190206143029	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206143029-2	From day one we have an investment in the Danish health care system. We have also lifted the service growth framework for the municipalities much more than the previous government, of which the Socialists were part, did. I think so, too, sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen knows. So should we not discuss this on a factual and informed basis what we are facing? For example: After all, we have introduced binding standards on emergency functions, and we have done so in order to improve quality. However, there are still a great many health services in the municipalities in the near health care area where we do not have professional standards for the offers. That is what we are changing with the health reform, so that you get some evidence-based professional standards for the offer that you as a citizen or patient meet out in the municipalities, it may be rehabilitation in the field of cancer, it may be in the social psychiatric field, if you as a patient also need medication or something else, depending on what it is for an offer you get. I think that is an important part of further developing our healthcare system. Just as we have done in the areas of specialised health care where we have professional standards, they themselves must also have professional standards in the near health care sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206143126	Then there is one final question from Mrs Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206143131	Thank you. Well, after a number of rounds with the Minister, we can see that nothing should happen if the municipalities fail to meet the mandatory quality standards. That was the question: what does the Minister think the consequence should be if the municipalities do not meet the mandatory quality standards for the treatment of patients with chronic diseases and of elderly medical patients? We have had to hear a lot about what the Social Democratic Party does not want, so I just want to say: there must be quality requirements, of course there must be closeness. But our appeal is, of course, that the economy and time will have to be there, so professionalism will follow, so that there is a high enough quality so that it will not again be these patients who lose and are lost on the floor. Then the Minister will answer the question, and perhaps he will be able to do so in the last round: what does the Minister think the consequence should be for the municipalities that will not deliver the professional quality that is the prerequisite?
ParlaMint-DK_20190206143221	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206143221-2	I replied to that in the first place, and I am happy to repeat that answer. It is clear that, just as we at the time gave the Danish Health Authority a muscle to make the thesis plan for the specialised health care in order to have the follow-up that is there, the Danish Health Authority will have a follow-up in relation to the professional requirements. But it will also be part of the Board of Patient Safety's supervisory work, and that is exactly what I said at the beginning. It is clear that it is also necessary to monitor whether the municipalities are meeting the requirements and then to ensure that the economy that is to be present is there. That is why, with the reform of health, we are also proposing to create the proximity fund of 6 billion. kr., which is an extraordinary boost, and of course it is also put in place to ensure that the economy is present in the municipalities so that they can raise the close health provision to a higher professional level for the benefit of patients.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206143305	Thank you. That was the end of Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 11, which is also addressed to the Minister for Health, and this time the questioner is Mr. Rasmus Prehn of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206143314	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206143315	Thank you, President. Can the Minister guarantee to the northern Jutlanders who today find security in having an emergency medical car attached to Hjørring Hospital that this emergency medical car will not be spared in the future by officials and board members of health administrations who have not been elected by the citizens of North Jutland but who have instead been appointed by the Ministry of Health in Copenhagen?
ParlaMint-DK_20190206143336	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206143337	Thank you for the question. As I have already mentioned, it is clear from the health reform that the government expects that the tools already placed will not be moved so that there will be a deterioration in coverage. So we have no plans to dismantle the emergency medical car, which is associated with Hjørring Hospital. Unfortunately, however, we have seen that the Nordjylland Region has been engaged in several rounds, thus creating doubts about the continued operation of the emergency medical car. It has, of course, created insecurity in North Jutland, and therefore it is so very nice that we from the government so clearly state that we want to delete that fear by saying that there should be no change or deterioration in the years to come. On the contrary, in the government, we want to strengthen the emergency preparedness, and that is also why we, together with the Danish People's Party for the Finance Act 2018, prioritised funding for a fourth emergency medical helicopter, which we have then placed in the northern part of Denmark, so that we ensure a better emergency response. With the reform of health, we want to strengthen emergency preparedness further, because it is a matter of ensuring that all citizens in Denmark can be confident that they will receive the necessary help if they are affected by acute illness or if they experience an accident. And, of course, this also applies to the residents of the Hjørring area or in northern Jutland. It has to be said that today's emergency offers are organised differently, depending on where you are in the country and what time it is on the day. We do not think that is clear and safe enough. The emergency area is therefore a key part of the government's plan for a health reform, in which we want to take a stand on the lack of transparency and diversity that is today in the acute area. Specifically, we are also preparing to deploy 10-15 additional ambulances, emergency medical vehicles, emergency preparedness across the country, especially in those areas where there is a special need, so that we can improve response times. And we do that because we think that today there is too much variation in response times across the country, and that goes, among other things. especially in addition to the northern Jutlanders, where it can be seen that there are fewer ambulances arriving within 15 minutes than there are, for example. is in Central Jutland Region. So we will strengthen emergency preparedness with the health reform initiative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206143538	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206143539	Thank you very much to the Minister for Health for a very long answer read out in record time. It took a lot of words, and you can get the feeling that there was going to be talk about it. The Minister said that there has been pressure on the economy in the regions and that there have therefore also been proposals for savings. But what has saved these emergency medical vehicles is that there has been a democratic body in which there have been local politicians who have shouted and said: listen to me, we cannot be in this situation, we have to have these cars secured, otherwise our citizens, our neighbours, will suffer. In this context, can the Minister not at all be nervous that when you are pressed again on the economy, when there is a lack of resources, it is easy to sit in Copenhagen or in Aarhus and make a decision that hits some local people, for example. In Hjørring? Today, after all, there are locally elected representatives on the Regional Council who listen to what people in, for example, are listening to. Hjørring says, and speaks their case.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206143649	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206143650	I just have to say that for example. the emergency medical car, which has been associated with Hjørring Hospital, has had the North Jutland Region in danger several times and thus created insecurity about it. And that is exactly what we want to do away with. So, I do not think it is fair that citizens in North Jutland should accept that there is only about 91 per cent. of the ambulances arriving within 15 minutes while it is 96 percent. in the Central Jutland Region. In fact, I do not think it is fair for us to see such geographical differences. That is also why we, together with the Danish People's Party, said that when it comes to the national emergency medical helicopter scheme, which has been decided by the central team, we want to strengthen it and deploy a fourth emergency medical helicopter located in North Jutland, because we actually think there is a need to strengthen that coverage. Similarly, with the reform of health, we want to strengthen emergency preparedness in North Jutland, including around Hjørring, by deploying more emergency medical vehicles, 10-15 we have set aside the economy because we do not think it is reasonable that there are such poor conditions in North Jutland. And that should not depend on a single political debate. We must ensure that there are national standards for the emergency response in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206143755	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206143756	After all, I am delighted that the Minister recognizes that there has been enormous pressure, including on the economy, in northern Jutland, so there has to be extra help. Thank you. But can the Minister not understand the concerns of the many citizens? After the structural change of the Left Government back in the mid-00s, it has been seen that at the municipal level, but also in relation to the regional level, there has been a violent centralisation, that is to say, that suddenly there is more to the offers you need. And can't the Minister understand that when you're sitting in, for example... Hjørring and hear that now the decisions have to be made at Slotsholmen or in Aarhus, so do you get a little worried about this? You may already think that it is just as far as Aalborg. If the decision is to be made here at Slotsholmen or in Aarhus, you can have the fear that it gets far, far worse because it is far away.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206143851	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206143852	I understand if you sit in North Jutland as a citizen and think it is unreasonable that there are so many fewer ambulances arriving within 15 minutes in the North Jutland Region than there are, for example. is in Central Jutland Region. In fact, I understand that it is then said that why is it that my emergency response must depend on the region in which I live? That's exactly what the government is doing. We say that we need to raise the standard and we need to have common standards in the country on what our emergency response looks like. We do not think it is fair that there is only 91 per cent. of the ambulances arriving within 15 minutes in North Jutland, while it is 96 percent. in Central Jutland. In fact, we think that the citizens of North Jutland are entitled to an as good and tight-meshed response as they have in the rest of the country. We are also devoting the economy to ensuring this in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206143937	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206143938	There are a lot of promises being made here, and it smells a bit like there's gonna be a parliamentary election soon. I therefore believe that the citizens of Denmark, and especially the northern Jutlanders, can well remember how much was promised when the latest structural reform was carried out. Everything should be better and cheaper and closer. But the experience you've had is that it's gotten worse and farther away and worse. Can the Minister not at all follow the concern that this supercentralisation makes citizens feel that they are being lost in these decisions?
ParlaMint-DK_20190206144009	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206144010	If we look at our health services, we were voted third best health care in Europe only last year. Heart mortality is almost halved, cancer survival is greater than it has ever been. However, I understand the citizens who think that in some respects the regions have centralised too much. That is also what we are taking away from the consequences of the reform of health. We say that there needs to be more closeness in a number of our health services. We need to look at what doesn't require highly specialised treatment... how we can move those treatments closer to where people live, out to their own doctor, out to municipal health houses, out to some of the hospitals that are today small, but run jointly between municipalities and regions in terms of getting more proximity to health care. This is what is needed in the years to come. And that is exactly what the government's health reform is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206144052	Thank you. That was the end of the question. Then we move on to the next question. The Minister for Health is very much begged today, so it is also a question for her, namely from Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party. And there's a co-questioner. This is Mrs Astrid Krag, also from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206144110	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206144111	Thank you very much, President. And the question is: can the Minister guarantee that the National Board of Health Services Denmark cannot force a board of health authorities to close a hospital?
ParlaMint-DK_20190206144124	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206144125	I kind of hope that when we like to keep taking these questions, the two questioners who are on today will also take the time to read the proposal for a health reform. For it is clear from Chapter 5 that the 21 health communities will consist of representatives of hospitals, general practice and municipalities in the occupied area, which will bridge the gap across the actors. So the health communities do not want a board of directors, and so there is no question of the health communities being forced to close a hospital. When it comes to the health services, they want a board of directors. Health administrations take over some of the regions' areas of operation in the field of health, while the cross-cutting tasks that can be appropriately coordinated across health administrations, such as: IT is being moved up to national level and that procurement and emergency preparedness are being anchored in the Danish Health Service, so that we have common standards across the country. This is also the way to ensure innovation efficiency and quality. Health authorities must ensure the efficient and efficient operation of hospitals, and they must continue the good results that we have seen in our hospitals over the past many years. And then the annual development plan for Healthcare Denmark will have an impact on hospital management in the health services, because Healthcare Denmark generally has a role as a coordinating and follow-up body to ensure coherent and also uniform solutions across the country. That is why it will never be possible to take decisions against the development plan which is drawn up annually by the government and which has been negotiated in close contact with the Folketing. And as I have also answered the questioners in the past, the proposal for health reform put forward by the government does not change the hospital structure that we have in Denmark today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206144319	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206144320	I think I am in a bit of confusion, because I do not know what it is like to make the Minister understand what is being asked. For the Minister has prepared an answer to the question, but does not give an answer at all. On the other hand, the Minister is trying to make the Social Democratic Party appear as if we have not understood things. I think we have read this carefully, and we have also listened to the concern that so many raise: where is the decision-making authority? Who, for example, has the authority to • which I mention in my question here • to decide that a hospital may have to be closed? Well, that's the real question. And I guess the government must have discussed that. Because I hardly think that the government believes that the number of hospitals in Denmark today is the number of hospitals that should be forever in Denmark. There's gotta be some kind of dynamic. There must also be a dynamic to perhaps build new hospitals in addition to those we are currently building if that is what you find the right thing to do. So the question is: can the National, highly centralised Board of Health Administration Denmark force the closure of a hospital through in one of the 21 health communities? That is what is being asked. Because what we are criticising and what is being criticised by many is that this is totally unclear: who is going to fight a cause? Who can fight a case locally, as is also done, what has greatly helped to support both democracy and understanding that the individual parts of the country are not the same. Decisions may have to be made around which support a different development, because that is what is necessary. But who can decide to close a hospital? That is my question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206144528	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206144529	No, that is, the question, as it is written, is whether Healthcare Denmark can force a board in a health community to close a hospital. And that is where I answer the question and say that it is not the health communities that run the hospitals. It's the health services. And you will never be able to make decisions against what has been set out in the development plan for health care. And the health reform put forward by the government does not change the hospital structure in Denmark. But, on the other hand, we want to ensure more closeness in the treatment, and that is why we also come with the proximity fund of the 6 billion. kr. to invest massively in municipal health houses. Some of them will also be associated with regional functions, compared to the fact that as a citizen you can get more offers, closer to where you live. Because we need more closeness in our healthcare system. We also need more coherence, and that is why we are setting up the 21 health communities so that we can solve this coordinating task across the municipality, general practice and hospital, in order to ensure better treatment for patients.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206144629	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206144629-2	I think the minister made something clear to himself here. Because I think the Minister got the answer a little wrong in the first answer. But now the answer is that Healthcare Denmark, which is the supreme authority, cannot do anything. But what the Minister then mentions is the five health services. Can't they decide that a hospital should be shut down either? Then who is it, because then I think everything is fluttering. And if we cannot use Question Time in this Chamber to get such a specific question answered in a discussion about health reform as confusing as that put forward by the government, then there are indeed many things that are going to fade into uncertainty.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206144710	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206144711	The government's health reform is quite simple. It is about ensuring more closeness in our health care, more coherence for patients, and pushing out more treatments, closer to where you live, so those treatments that do not need to be in a highly specialised hospital • so that citizens get more proximity to the health services they receive. And then we move some tasks up to national level... IT, joint purchase of medical equipment and emergency preparedness... so we get a national framework for it. And it is not the health communities that run the hospitals. These are the administrations, and the administrations will not be able to do anything about either what is anchored and decided in the Danish Health Service or what is set out in the annual health care development plan. And, as I said, the government's proposal for health reform does not change the hospital structure that we have in Denmark today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206144803	Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206144805	In any case, I think there is one thing that can be observed very calmly after the discussions that have taken place so far, namely that when the Minister for Health says that the reform is quite simple, that is not the case. This is clear from all the questions that have been asked, including in the real world, from health economists, from professors of economics and from health lawyers, who cannot understand how this system is going to work with local communities, where there is a right of veto for individual mayors who are going back to municipal councils, and which we can now understand from the Minister today anyway has nothing to say in relation to a decision-making power. 'Cause it's not out of town at all. We have had to hear this otherwise when the Minister has had to reassure colleagues from the Left who are asking: where is the democratic mandate locally? Then we have been told that there are mayors and committee chairmen in the health communities. Now the Minister says here today: well, that is not where the decision-making power lies at all. In other words, if there is one thing that is clear, it is not a very simple reform that the government is undertaking. It gets more bureaucratic, it gets more complicated, we get more layers. So I would just like to ask the Minister: how can local influence be sought, if that is what the Minister is saying here today?
ParlaMint-DK_20190206144920	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206144921	There is a great deal of competence and influence in the health communities • the 21 health communities that must help to ensure more coherence and proximity in our decisions. But it is clear that within what we are moving up at national level, where, for example, we are moving up at national level. In the field of emergency response, we need to stand at national level, not so great geographical differences, for example. How fast the ambulance gets across the country. This should not be decided at the same time in a health community. But health communities are given competence in what is close and coherent; we are moving something up to national level, and that is not so difficult. I can now hear that the Social Democrat rapporteur evidently believes that everyone is in doubt about this. That's not really what I'm experiencing, even when I talk to them. One understands that there are things that become more intimate. We will have a more coherent healthcare system, we will have a binding balance between what is happening in hospitals, in psychiatry, what is happening in our own doctor and what is happening in the municipality, and that is exactly what patients need. For today they sometimes experience that the right hand does not know what the left hand is doing, and it does not create health and safety in our healthcare system. And then we move something up to national level. It is thus two different directions that help to strengthen our overall health care in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206145031	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206145032	There needs to be more cooperation, there needs to be greater coherence, there needs to be some change. But that can be done with the structure we have today. You don't have to make a completely new five-member Danish map instead of the three we know today. That is what people, including myself, are trying to appeal to the government: let us now solve the problems that are, instead of creating a lot of new ones. Can the Minister just be specific about what decision-making power lies in the local health communities? What specific decision-making powers do we have here?
ParlaMint-DK_20190206145107	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206145109	This is a health reform that simplifies our system. We go from three levels of authority to two elected levels of authority and, with the 21 health communities, we create a binding framework for the cooperation that needs to be strengthened in our healthcare for the benefit of patients. For it is up to one in five patients who today experience that there is no connection in their course of treatment; that the municipality is not ready to take over when you are discharged from hospital; or that your own doctor is not connected sufficiently. And it's no use, because when you're a patient, you need the hospital, your own doctor and the municipality to work more closely together. That is exactly what is going to happen in the 21 health communities, where there will also be more competences in relation to taking care of what is about the close offers and the context that must be in our health care.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206145156	Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206145159	It is a good thing that our Parliamentary Assembly does not give the many listeners today the opportunity to read the question I have asked. Because then they would sit as confused as I am that it is not possible to get an answer from the government to such a specific question. I really think that is grotesque, and that is not what we need in our political system at all. I asked the following question last week about a technical review of the health reform: who can close a hospital if it is to be decided that a hospital should be closed? There I got an answer from the officials. Now I ask the Minister for the fifth time: who can decide that a hospital in Denmark should be closed?
ParlaMint-DK_20190206145246	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206145246-2	The question of social democracy, as it is written down, is whether the Danish Health Service can force a board of directors in a health community to close a hospital. I answered that in the first round, and I am happy to reply to that again. It is not the health communities that run the hospitals. It is the health authorities, and you will never be able to make a decision against what has just been decided overall in relation to the development plan set out, what lies in the Danish Health Service, and what your own board of health services does. Furthermore, it is not the case that the government's health reform changes the hospital structure we have in Denmark today. I really hope it's very clear to Mr. Knox. Flemming Møller Mortensen, that health communities are about creating closeness and coherence for patients and about cooperation in the near health care sector. This isn't about running our highly specialised functions at the hospitals.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206145339	Thank you. That was the end of Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European Before we move on to the last question, Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) 13, it was perhaps a good idea to tell the audience what is really happening down here. Every Friday it is the case that the members of parliament by the end of the week. 12.00 may send a written question to any minister if the Minister has the opportunity to be present in the Chamber on Wednesday. On Wednesday we will then have what we call Question Time, and the Minister will then have to answer the written question. That's why it's being read out first. Afterwards, the Minister answers, and then there is free debate a number of times with 2 minutes of speaking time respectively the first time and 1⁄2 minutes next time, if otherwise we can get the minister and ask to keep to the time. Then you can make it special, if you have a colleague who is interested in the same subject, that you can have someone with you, and that is what we are seeing at the moment. There's a questioner, and that's Mr. Simpson at the moment. Flemming Møller Mortensen from the Social Democratic Party, and the co-questioner is Mrs Astrid Krag from the Social Democratic Party. Then you have 10 minutes in dialogue with each other to elaborate on this subject, and then you are allowed to ask two questions as the main questioner, and that is why Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen once again the opportunity. It's more because it can seem a little confusing when we run up and down and back and forth here. But we are taking the last question for today, and that is No. 13. It's for the Minister of Health, and the main questioner is Mr. Knox. Flemming Møller Mortensen, and the co-questioner, as I said, Mrs Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206145506	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206145508	Thank you, President. The question is: Can the Minister guarantee that the hospital in Frederikshavn will not be closed when, in future, with the government's health reform, it will no longer be up to the elected representatives from North Jutland, but instead a board appointed by the Ministry of Health in Copenhagen, to decide what the hospital structure should look like?
ParlaMint-DK_20190206145528	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206145530	But Frederikshavn's hospital, which is asked for, is a good example of a small hospital with a special profile, but also a hospital with many offers that can be conveniently located close to the citizens. It must also be seen that many of these functions are part of the government's health reform as proposals for things that can be close to where we live in the near health care system. In addition, I know that at Frederikshavn's hospital a new large medical clinic is being established in the hospital's old reception. The medical clinic wants 12 doctors, and it wants more nurses and, in the long term, other health professionals. This colocation will support a good professional environment and the collaboration between the medical clinic and the various ambulance functions. So I think that Frederikshavn's hospital is a good example of how to develop the close health care system. This is one of the things we need more of, not less of. This is one of the things we need to develop in the years to come: a more close healthcare system, where more offers move closer to where you live. And that, in fact, is what I have been trying to answer Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen and Mrs Astrid Krag on the previous questions. In addition, as I said, the government's proposals for a health reform do not alter the planned hospital structure. On the other hand, we set a more ambitious direction for health care and close health care, in terms of how we can move more functions closer to citizens and strengthen the close offers in municipalities and general practice and also sometimes across hospitals. I really think that Frederikshavn's hospital is an excellent example of how to develop some close offers in our health care, which can help to ensure that everything is not centralised around the large hospitals.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206145709	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206145711	Social democracy has been working for a very long time on how to strengthen the close health care system and we have written it very clearly in our health issue from October. We have said that we will set up near hospitals and we have said what functions may be there and that it is a discussion between the municipality and the region, how it should be structured, largely on the basis of what is a local geographical need. The fact that in their health reform the Left has copied it and many other things from the Socialist proposal shows, of course, the advantage that always exists when you launch your initiative very late. And we have therefore waited 31⁄2 years here in the Folketing for a proposal on the close and coherent health care that the Left went to the polls at the last time. And now, before an election, there's gonna be a tiny bit. I would like to ask: if Frederikshavn's hospital does not have to live forever, who will have the opportunity to say that we are now talking about the key? What body will have the authority to make such a decision? Now I have the opportunity to ask again, because I did not get an answer in the last question. But that is in total continuation of the previous question. So who will be able to make a decision? The authorities we have in Denmark in the future, if it is up to the government, are the Danish Parliament, and then it is Health Service Denmark with a board and some who will sit in Aarhus. Then it is five health services that have to sit out in the geographical areas that are our regions today, and then 21 health communities, which consist of a division of some municipalities around some emergency hospitals. So now I would very much like a concrete reply from the Minister. Who wants the authority to do so in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20190206145910	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206145912	However, as I have said in the past, and I am happy to repeat this, the government's proposal for a health reform does not alter the planned hospital structure. It doesn't. However, we are creating a simpler health service, moving from three elected levels to two elected levels, and we are creating more proximity to the services of our health services, where, with the proximity fund of 6 billion. kr. invest in several modern health houses and in the collaborations that need to be in the near health care, so you can get more offers closer to where you live. As I mentioned at the outset, some of the functions at Frederikshavn's hospital today are, after all, a very good example of exactly what the government outlines in its proposal for a health reform does not need to be centralised in large hospitals, but can benefit from being closer. And then we take a national responsibility for the development of our health services, because that is what is needed so that the geographical inequality that we are unfortunately seeing today can be overcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206150001	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206150003	This is getting more and more grotesque, and I get it. For the government here is pressed into a corner where they will not say what is the truth, because the truth is that those decisions in the future are slipping away from being political decisions. It will be centralised, it will not be based on a democratic process, it will be based on the existence of a professional board which can take decisions that affect a large geographical area. And then the minister tries to cover himself up by saying that there is no provision for changing the structure of the hospital plan. No, Minister, but all of us who work in this field know that this is a dynamic size. It could have been the other way around. It could have been said: who should decide to set up a new hospital or a new hospital department? Besides super hospitals and emergency hospitals, we have a great many units, and these are the ones we are talking about when I mention Frederikshavn hospital explicitly here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206150059	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206150101	Yes, and as I said at the outset, and I would like to repeat this, Frederikshavn's hospital is exactly an example of a wide range of functions which do not need to be in the highly specialised hospitals: ambulances, midwife consultation, a number of other functions, including dietician. What we want is to develop and expand some of the offers so that they move closer to where you live, also through a proximity fund of 6 billion. kr. to invest in modern health houses. Some of them may well be located in existing hospitals. We have seen the Faxe hospital be a very good example of this. This is what we see in the hospital in Tønder, and I think that is what we see in part at Frederikshavn's hospital, where there is now also a large medical clinic, where you will have more skills moved under the same roof and get that professional cooperation, also in the close health care system, which can make you get more offers closer to where you live. And that is the close health service with a better context in which we must develop and invest in the years to come.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206150154	Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206150159	We get a simpler health care system, says the Minister for Health. And then she writes that in future we have the government, we have the Danish Parliament, we have the Danish Health Service, we have a parallel to the Danish Arts Foundation or Banedanmark; so something centrally appointed we have five health administrations, we have 21 health communities, we have municipal representatives sitting here. How can it be simpler than the system we have today? I just don't understand. What we're circling in these questions is: where can we in this system that the government is building up seek local influence? We have revolved around this in both questions: where can you take the local special considerations that make no sense in the spreadsheets in a boardroom? That is what we need to know, and that is what we have not yet received an answer to. We are told: well, there is a great deal of competence where local elected representatives are. But we cannot know what they have the authority to decide. Therefore, I just have to repeat the question that has been asked now many times: can the Danish Health Service decide to close a hospital or not?
ParlaMint-DK_20190206150307	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206150310	I also think I have answered several times. I mean, it's not like the government's health reform is changing the hospital structure we have today. It doesn't. Now we've been around the hospital in Tønder, and now we're around the hospital in Frederikshavn, because the Social Democratic Party is a little touring around the country and just like That is why I just have to say that this is precisely what we need to develop: the close functions, what has been centralised too much in the regions today, which do not necessarily have to lie in the highly specialised hospitals, but may as well lie in some of the smaller hospitals, lying out in general practice, lying out in municipal health houses. That is exactly what we need to strengthen in the years to come. That is also what we are, politically speaking, investing both money and resources in with the health reform; it is, as it were, 6 billion. kr. in the proximity fund: how can we also expand those functions over the coming years? This seems to us to have been neglected in the regions in many places. There has been a lot of focus on running the large hospitals and they have done well, but there is also a need for us to invest in the coming years in getting more health services closer to where people live. This is precisely the political priority that we saw as government will put into a future development plan, which will, of course, determine what it is for development that health care will then take in the coming years: more proximity, more coherence, higher quality and basically a system in which patients' rights are put higher than they are in the regions today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206150434	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206150435	This means that the short answer is that the local communities, the 21 health communities, where there is some degree of local influence because there are some mayors and some committee chairmen who have been appointed have nothing to say about whether a local hospital should be closed. It can be forced through even if it is not what you want in the local health communities. Is it true that this is what, out of the very, very long speech flow from the minister, remains in response to the question that was asked: can Healthcare Denmark force a board of health authorities to close one of the local hospitals? Is it true that the answer is: Yes, they can?
ParlaMint-DK_20190206150516	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206150517	Now I think that was the previous question. This question, which we are currently dealing with, is about the hospital in Frederikshavn. And it is quite true that what the government is proposing with the health reform, in relation to who should have the operational task of the hospital operation, is that there should be a board of six people. Some have been suspended from local government and one has been stopped from patient organizations, so we get patients right into the heart chamber of the operation of our healthcare system. Because we're running health care for the patients. We have also set out to re-elect the existing Regional Council presidents to be presidents of these regional health authorities during the first period, precisely because we also need to have a local anchoring of it. But the government's health reform as such does not lead to changes in the hospital structure in Denmark, and I actually think I have answered that a few times. But I understand that there was a need for a repeat.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206150611	Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206150613	Thank you. The trick with which the Minister has toured here, namely that the present presidents of the regional councils will be appointed during the first period, must be taken into account. For after the period • vups! What I think is the annoying and the sad and the fatigue after such a round of questions here is that the Minister is trying to poke our eyes: you dare not stand up for what it is all about, and you cannot give that person calm in the stomach feeling that many people are asking for. The local concern, the local influence, goes the whistle, and what the Minister says is that those who sit far away know best and that they can make decisions. And then it doesn't matter and it doesn't matter with those who sit out there fighting a case today and where you've seen how it very much succeeds out there. That is why the Social Democratic Party is failing on this point the government's health reform. This is centralization, so it's really battling something.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206150721	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206150722	We believe that the regions have centralised too much on a number of points and that there is too little proximity in our health services today. That is what is at the heart of the health reform: creating more proximity, creating more coherence for patients. Therefore, we also create 21 health communities across the municipalities, where all municipalities will be represented in the emergency hospital, the hospitals in the area, psychiatry and general practice. This is what is needed in our health services: more proximity, more coherence. Then there is something we anchor at national level, because we do not think it is fair that there are such large geographical differences. It's emergency preparedness if we're going to take an example. But that is, for example, the case. Also, buying IT systems where we think it is reasonable to buy it forward-lookingly into common or medical equipment. And it is about how we also use our money most sensibly to ensure good treatment for our patients, that is, that there are some features that need to be more close, and some features that we must then have performed together.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206150817	Thank you very much to the Minister for Health, and thank you to Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen and Mrs Astrid Krag for a very thorough debate on health care and hospitals. A total of approx. 46 minutes, an overrun of 6 minutes, but it became thorough, and that was the most important thing. Thank you. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206150845	The debate is open, and we will take the rapporteurs first. Afterwards, the Minister has the opportunity to reply, and she has made a comprehensive written statement in advance, on which the rapporteurs are probably based. But the debate is open, and the first rapporteur is Mr. Daniel Toft Jakobsen of the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206150940	Thank you for that, President. In Pakistan, the Christian woman Asia Bibi was recently released after 8 years of imprisonment following charges of blasphemy. Her crime in her time was, as I understand it, that she allowed herself to argue for her cause and for her Christian faith, when some Muslims protested that she as a Christian drank water from the same cup and the same well as they did. In Egypt, about a year ago, it was seriously discussed whether to impose a ban on being an atheist. Strong forces simply wanted by law to forbid it from believing in a god. From Russia today we have heard that a Danish Witness has been convicted of being an extremist because he has practiced his faith as Jehovah's Witnesses. These three examples show that freedom of belief and religion is not something that we can take for granted. The same is true, of course, when the rohingyamuslims are subjected to ethnic cleansing in Myanmar; when atheistic bloggers are brutally murdered in Bangladesh; when Muslim Uighurs are oppressed in China; when Jews are subjected to hate crimes in Europe and elsewhere; when Christians and other groups are discriminated against, persecuted and worse, in several Middle Eastern and African countries. In many places it is not just one particular group that is exposed. In some places, it is everyone who differs from the majority that is affected. In other places it is especially those who dare to change from one religion to another, or those who dare to leave their religion, or those who dare to criticize the majority religion that is being affected. In many places the problems are more and more than just religion. Cultural and social standards play, for example: A role, too. But that does not change the fact that freedom of belief and religion is impossible to escape as one of several important things, if you want a world of more peace and stability, where we can find a way to live properly and respectfully together across our differences and where fewer people are forced to flee. For me, freedom of faith and religion is one of the best safeguards we have against religious extremism, religious coercion and other types of religious oppression, because the right protects all people, men as women, believers as unbelievers, and their right to decide for themselves what they will believe and what they will not believe. In a world where radicalisation and extremism are forcing one's own convictions down on others, unfortunately in many places casts its ugly shadow over human life, it is important to make an effort to strengthen freedom of faith and religion in particular. It is therefore quite basically good and positive that the government has highlighted freedom of belief and religion through what the statement we have received from the Minister for Development calls the special effort for freedom of belief and religion and religious minorities, including Christians. When you have your own home in a relatively secular society like the Danish one with a constitutional freedom of religion, which we may sometimes take for granted, it is not always so easy to understand how big a role religion can play elsewhere in the world, for good and bad, and how big a difference it can actually make in many places to strengthen freedom of belief and religion. There is simply a need for attention and knowledge about religion as such, but also about freedom of belief and religion as a human right, both among us politicians, but of course also in the Danish foreign service, both centrally and outside the embassies etc. Hopefully, the efforts that we are discussing here today, and which the Minister has well described in the statement, contribute to strengthening the level of awareness and knowledge in this area. In the Social Democratic Party, we think it is good that the government's efforts are based on human rights, so that there is a focus on the right of all people to believe and not to believe, to change their beliefs and, incidentally, to criticise the beliefs of others. For it is of course important to remember that freedom of religion is not about protecting religions, but about protecting the fundamental right of each individual to think and believe freely. We are also pleased that the government's efforts are based on the basic view that human rights are equal, indivisible and mutually supportive, as stated in the statement. This is an important starting point, which is one of the main points. This means that one right of liberty cannot be used to violate the other right of liberty. We also agree with the government that it is important to place a special focus on the relationship between freedom of belief and religion and then equality and women's rights, among others. because the two rights on long stretches can actually support each other, e.g. It is often seen that where freedom of belief and religion is violated, women are most severely affected, but also, of course, because in some places women's rights are restricted precisely by religion as a reason or motivation. We are also fully involved in those parts of the strategy that concern the mobilisation of the international community and a special focus on these four specific countries and, of course, also on the EU's immediate area, especially the Middle East and North Africa, just as we of course also think it is a good idea to involve Danish civil society • Danish researchers, those who have a particular interest in this • as they are also trying to do in the contact forum that was established in connection with the launch of the action in January 2018. It is clear that the challenge in all of this is to be able to show some concrete results. On the one hand, it is clear that a whole lot of very specific things cannot be changed in the countries we are talking about here overnight. On the other hand, it is also clear that if we do not succeed, together with other countries, in bringing about very concrete improvements for the groups and individuals that are all about, then the many fine words and the many meetings and strategies are not really useful. A very large part of the difference that we can make on the Danish side must be made in cooperation with other countries. As far as I can see, over the past year serious work has been done on matters, both at ministerial level and at official level. For example: I personally think that it sounds really exciting with the so-called Friends of FoRB networks among selected embassies in selected countries, to which the statement refers and which Denmark has helped to take the initiative. I believe that both the initiative and some of the other things that Denmark has contributed internationally can help to increase the knowledge and, above all, the attention paid to this whole area of freedom of belief and religion, which can actually make a difference out there for real people. For me, it is not so easy to stand here and come up with a whole lot of ready-made and refined proposals for things that should be changed and improved in the government's efforts in this area. However, I would nevertheless like to make a suggestion about some things that we could perhaps consider together in the further efforts. Could you, for example, do that? in some way oblige the Danish embassies in certain countries to report annually on freedom of belief and religion, both so that we who are interested can read the reports and learn more about what the situation is like, but of course also in order to spread and anchor this focus on freedom of belief and religion widely in the External Action Service? Another consideration could be whether, in general, one could try to become a little more specific, for example. in terms of how freedom of faith and religion can be thought together with women's rights, and what it will mean in practice for our development and foreign policy if we do so more than we do, but also in relation to the embassies networks in certain countries that I mentioned earlier. Has the network in Vietnam e.g. was actively used in the Universal Periodic Human Rights Assessment of Vietnam, which has recently taken place? It might also have been nice to perhaps get a more concrete answer on how freedom of belief and religion was given priority when the Prime Minister recently visited India. I fully agree that there are all sorts of other considerations that are also important, and I also agree that you cannot tell everything you talk to other countries about bilaterally or multilaterally, but you might be able to practice being a little more concrete and telling a little more concrete about what you are working for and how in different other countries. As an inspiration, we could perhaps use the guidelines that exist within the framework of the European Union, which relatively specifically describe how the European Union and the Member States can work to promote freedom of belief and religion around the world. No specific countries or specific cases are mentioned in the guidelines, but some tools and principles are mentioned which are worth inspirationing, and which in some way also make it more earthy to relate to someone like me than the good ones, but perhaps also more general strategies that we are often presented with in Denmark. However, despite the fact that there are still things that can be better and more concrete, and despite the fact that there are plenty of considerations that we can do together, I would like to end by thanking the Minister for the debate here, for the presentation and, above all, for the focus that the government has given on freedom of belief and religion over the past year. For in a world of much strife and instability, too many streams of refugees and too much religious extremism, freedom of faith, thought and religion is an important focus.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206151930	Thank you, sir. Daniel Toft Jakobsen. There are no brief comments, so we will move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Christian Langballe from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206151943	I would also like to thank the Minister and the Government for this statement, which I have been reading with great interest. I mean, I'm not like that to those UN talk clubs, but I still think that the minister and the government have addressed something that has been swept under the carpet for too many years, namely religious persecution. I have been dealing with religious persecution for many years. I remember back to 2008, when I wrote something about Asia Bibi, mentioned by the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, who was not only imprisoned for blasphemy and insulting the Prophet, but also for being a Christian and for touching Muslims, and subsequently the governor who defended her was assassinated on the street because he took her in defense and that Pakistan, by the way, has introduced Sharia law and Sharia punishment methods by law. That's the way it is in Pakistan. I think this is a welcome opportunity to discuss something important. I sometimes think that some unimportant things are said from the platform of the Folketing, but I actually think this is very, very important. What I saw, of course, is of particular interest and interest to me is the Christians in the Middle East, also because the Middle East - and this is something that is also highlighted in the report - is, as it were, Europe's and Denmark's focus on religious persecutions. That is why I think it makes sense to place particular emphasis here. There are people who are being persecuted, and we have just heard of the man from Jehovah's Witnesses who has been given six years in prison in Russia. I thank my god and create that I was born in a country where freedom of religion is enshrined in our constitution and where it is actually respected to the extent that it is in Denmark; we live in a butter hole as far as these things are concerned. One of the things that shocked me is the persecution of Christians in the Middle East. I actually think, when I think about it and read about it, that it is an atrocity that is happening before our eyes. It does not play a role in the European debate, and in the European public, Christians in the Middle East are largely forgotten. I think it has a lot to do with the fact that one does not want to mess with the religion of Islam and does not want to mess with the Islamic regimes in the Middle East and then turn a blind eye, but it is just monstrous what is going on. Here I have with me an inventory from Open Doors, which is, of course, an organization dealing with Christian persecution. If you look at it, you can see that at the top of Christian persecution lies the old Stalinist Communist regime in North Korea and then follows a lot of Muslim countries. There is Afghanistan, there is Somalia, there is Libya, there is Pakistan, there is Yemen, there is Iran, there is Syria, there is Iraq, there is Saudi Arabia, and there is Egypt, just to mention some of the first ones on the list. In countries such as Afghanistan, Libya, Pakistan, Iran and Syria, persecution is called extreme, while in Iraq, Saudi Arabia and Egypt it is serious. If you look at what persecution of Christians in Islamic countries has meant, you can look to the Middle East. In 1910 there were 13.2%. 13.2% of the population of the Middle East who were Christians. Today we are down to 4.2 percent. By 1910 13.2% were employed. by Syrian Christians. Today we are down to 5.2%. In Egypt, about 100 years ago, the Coptic Christians made up 18.7%. Today, Coptic Christians make up 10.7%. And one of the scariest things is that in Iraq, in recent years, things have gone very fast. In 1987 there were 8 per cent, today there are about 1 per cent. I would say that it will probably not be long before there are no more Christians left in Iraq. Christians are disappearing in the Middle East because of the persecution of Islamic regimes, and interest on the part of Europe is remarkably small. That is why I am pleased that the Minister and the government have raised this. In fact, I find it a little embarrassing for the old Christian nations in Europe to turn a blind eye to the systematic expulsion and extermination of Christians in the Middle East. Just to give an example: In 2013, when Mursi and the Islamic Brotherhood came to Egypt, Christians were subjected to extreme persecution. In just one month, 60 churches were vandalized, robbed, or burned down. Yousef, who was a priest telling about what happened at the time, said that he was sleeping in an extension to the church when it was suddenly attacked by 500 people who then set the church on fire. He has returned today, and there are only the ruins left. What I find striking in this is that we are talking about some of the oldest churches in the world. The Syrian Church, the Iraqi Church and, for that matter, the Afghan Church are in fact some of the early Christian churches which, in addition to the Coptic Church, are extremely difficult. What has been striking is, of course, and it is such a little source of wonder and a paradox that I do not really know how to deal with myself, that the old dictators such as Mubarak and Gaddafi and some of these actually protected the Christians, while the Islamic brotherhood parties elected to power begin extreme and systematic persecution. I would like to use this debate to highlight this, also because I myself have to say that this is not something we have done anything about within the church. As I have dealt with it, I am just wondering more and more that the Christians may have disappeared out of the Middle East in a few generations' time over 40-50 years they may have disappeared and that we have just been sitting and watching. But this statement is the first step on the way to actually discussing this seriously, which is why I would like to thank the government once again and thank the Minister for the statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206152753	Thank you, sir. Christian Langballe, there are no brief remarks. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Carl Holst from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206152803	Thank you, President. I agree, not surprisingly, with the praise of both the Socialist rapporteur and the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, that the government has taken some initiatives first on the basis that it recognises that it is a Christian country, and then that action is being taken in this area and that it is now in the process of uncovering what the situation is. And on that basis, we have a report. I also very much agree with that, sir. Daniel Toft Jakobsen says, in relation to him I did not take it as an indication that one should find something to criticize a little groaning saying that he may not have concrete suggestions about what to do then. And that is probably because what we have on the table is not necessarily an action paper, but initially primarily a diagnostic paper. I don't think there's anything wrong with that, and that's not it, sir. Daniel Toft Jamesen expressed himself. But now we have a diagnosis that is a prerequisite for the delivery of a medicine. Well, the next step must be what we'll do about it. I think we all agree, at each of our starting points, where we emphasise some things more than others, that the right to have a political conviction and a sexuality is also a right that must apply to the right to believe what you want, or the right to believe nothing at all, and that we have an obligation to focus on it. Then I think it would be surprising to some that the most persecuted religion is Christianity, that every 12 Christians in the world are persecuted. And I believe that, together with other elements, we must bear this in mind, even on the basis that it is also clear that freedom of religion is not the freedom to violate other freedoms in the hands of religion, such as equality, etc., but that we have the value as a common foundation that the right to believe is as fundamental as, for example, the right to believe. the right to have a political conviction. Then you can have a different approach to the international, and it was a pleasure to experience Mr. Christian Langballe from the Danish People's Party is rediscovering himself in this field to be true to international cooperation. After all, we do not need to have the approach that it should be convention-borne, because let us now focus on the common foundation we have. Because I very much agree with the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party that, of course, we need an international perspective on this, and I am glad that with the initiatives we have taken from Denmark, we have been inspired by and have been able to inspire other countries, have been the initiator of conferences, etc. But we can also look at it in relation to what values and assumptions we want in the Danish international mindset, for example. in Denmark's commitment to international cooperation, Denmark's commitment to development aid and other things • that there is also something here that we can have as a prerequisite for providing support, namely that we promote a positive development towards less persecution of, for example. Christians or other believers. I believe that this could be a good basis for future joint action. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206153215	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206153217	In other words, I would just like to mention what came out of the rapporteur's mouth, because I have never been opposed to international cooperation. And I would also like to say that, if nothing else, we can always discuss the UN system and be critical of it, but I think, after all, that there is a forum for discussion, and that part of it I think is important. Well, I never thought it wasn't; actually, I haven't. As far as what we are discussing here is concerned, I think that the way to stop it, among other things. in the Middle East, is to talk it out in a way so that those regimes are ashamed. I really think it is. For example: In fact, we are providing a great deal of help to Iraq, and what is this, what is it? You could travel as a minister, go down there and talk to these people and say: what is going on? I think you should. I mean, the country is being built up, among other things. with money from Denmark. In this way, I am in favour of international cooperation. It's just the way it's supposed to happen that you can disagree about. But international cooperation, of course, what else?
ParlaMint-DK_20190206153347	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206153348	I am very pleased with what is being said, and I very much agree: international cooperation, what else? The rapporteur of the Left agrees with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Perhaps we could also mention in this context European cooperation, which, with a strong voice, has made some statements and expressed some positions in relation to the regime in Venezuela. Here too, European cooperation could be used, yes, I had almost said: what else? Having said that, the last thing I would like to draw attention to in relation to the reflections on Mr Beazley's report. Christian Langballe, the development in relation to the spread of Christian faith in the Middle East, and let me start by stressing that the figures are frightening. There was just no reason for me to mention it to Mr. Simpson. Christian Langballe had done so well. But Denmark's commitment to international cooperation may also be borne by what we do with development aid, that we make some demands forward-looking.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206153459	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206153500	Now, I think the rapporteur is getting off to a good start on European cooperation, so we are going to stop! No, look at this: I can use this debate to get a white stake hammered through the hints that I am not supposed to be in favour of cooperation, including with European countries. Well, we are actually living on a continent where people have worked together and traded with each other, too, warriors and all sorts of other things, but indeed then they have worked together. The Westfalse peace was achieved, and diplomacy and everything else came along. Of course, we must cooperate; no one has ever denied it. When I am against it, it is because of the whole Union that I do not like because it has created a dysfunctional Europe. So now we are far, far away from Christian persecution or religious persecution at all. But it was just to answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206153603	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206153604	Perhaps it was also a little unnecessary polemical on my part to draw European cooperation into the picture here, because we could only have contented ourselves with international cooperation. Having said that, however, I do believe that it is all cooperation forums that have an interest in hitting back on what we are experiencing, even to the extent that we can use European cooperation. I don't want to say anything else, because I really don't want us to talk apart, but talk closer to each other. And then I also agree with the remarks about European cooperation as a peace project. I guess that's why the European Union got the Nobel Prize for peace and not for the economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206153648	Thank you, sir. Carl Holst. Then I should have given the floor to Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Christian Juhl, but he's preoccupied with other tasks. I should say hello from him and say that he feels well covered in by sir. Daniel Toft Jakobsen's speech and especially his question. Then we can move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206153714	Thank you for the floor. The fact that you are free to believe what you want and to publicly confess to the god you believe in is fundamental to a liberal democracy, just as it is fundamental that you have the right to do nothing completely. And the latter is a project which has very much succeeded here in Denmark. I would say that it has come so far that atheists usually do not know what they do not believe in. That attitude towards faith, doubt and atheism is special to liberal democracies. I feel, in general terms, well covered by the rapporteur's speeches that have been made. But there is one thing I do not think has been mentioned. It's this whole idea that religion is considered to be a private matter that doesn't concern anyone else. It is also a very characteristic part of a liberal democracy. In totalitarian forms of society such as: the Communist and Islamist views of religion do not exist, and therefore the persecution of what is perceived as religious deviants, that is, people who simply mean something other than the regime, and atheists, is something that belongs to the order of the day in many parts of the world, where there is a communist or Islamist constitution. That is what is at the heart of the examples, for example. Mr. Daniel Toft Jakobsen came with us just before, and as we heard from Mr. Christian Langballe, that liberal democracy must be said to be retreating and that freedom of religion is unique to liberal democracy. Unfortunately, this Islamic intolerance is also something we know from Denmark. This is something we have to use quite a lot of financial resources to keep in check, not least in relation to the Jewish congregation in Denmark. This does not, of course, mean that one is exempt from criticism simply because one belongs to a religious minority or to a religion that per year. definition does not recognize criticism. This means that one is equal to practitioners of all other religions or with atheists. That is why I very much welcome this statement. I think it is very good that the government is addressing this problem and I think the initiatives that have been taken are good. But what I think is worth thinking about first of all is that by writing a statement on how freedom of belief and religion works, the government has in fact written a statement on how liberal democracy works. That is not an encouraging statement, it can be said, because liberal democracy is under pressure if you see how it develops around the world. I myself belong to a generation who read both Fukuyama and Huntington back in the 1990s, and I am probably also one of the many who have been in error: in the 1990s I thought Fukuyama was right and that Huntington was wrong. We can see now that Huntington was right and that Fukuyama was wrong. This is in an indirect way what the statement here is also about. So there are all kinds of good reasons to say thank you for the statement, both for what it is about on the surface, namely freedom of faith and religion, but also for the politically liberal view of faith and religion, which is retreating and under pressure, and that is something worth fighting for. Thank you for this, and the government must, of course, be encouraged to continue its great efforts to protect persecuted religious minorities throughout the world, including through the international organisations of which we are a part. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206154155	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206154159	I think there are some things we can discuss. Well, I also read, and actually with great pleasure, Fukuyama's book, which by the way is very well written and has a proper philosophical basis, where he penetrates deep into basic things. But I have never agreed with him on the idea that history has such an end where liberal democracy is, like, unabated on a pedestal while everything else disappears, I think is a utopia. You have to do what you can to defend the basics, but I really think it is a utopia. I work as a priest myself, and I don't have that scare about religion. So, religion is something very elementary, if you look at it like that, religion sociologically, it is something elementary for a society that there is a religion that like goes along with it. That's what you know from an ordinary society that's the way it is. But faith is not necessarily a private matter; it is more of a personal matter. Well, it's not like you put your faith in when you go into the church, and then you take it off again when you go out. But, of course, I would say, is the prerequisite and it is at least also a Christian condition that faith is an act of freedom, and therefore Christianity supports liberal democracy. Faith cannot be imposed... can't be imposed. I don't want to force you to go to the church, but I want you to call me. And I think that's a good expression of what it's like when the relationship between religion and society is in order... that there's faith an act of freedom. And, of course, there's something about upbringing, there's something about traditions, we go to christening with our kids and stuff. But faith is an act of freedom that cannot be imposed on any human being.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206154428	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206154430	Thank you. One of the things I like about the debate on statements is that we can talk about issues that are not normally discussed in this Chamber. And I will do that now, because Fukuyama's book is based on a good idea: a reading of Hegel, where liberal democracy is given the place of the world spirit. So what Fukuyama says is that it is liberal democracy that is the world spirit, and then the Hegel metaphor may well run off with Fukuyama. As far as personal and private matters are concerned, and with freedom, these are very important issues. I guess I'm not quite as sharp as I am on personal matters to the private sector, so I guess I'm actually a little inclined to think of the two words as synonymous. What I mean, at least, is what Mr. Christian Langballe says that you have no right to impose your religious world image on other people in a society of our type. If I can just say the last thing, I would like to say that I agree that the church of the people was born out of our democracy, but historically, freedom and religion, including the Christian religion, have had a slightly more strained relationship with each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206154551	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206154552	Yes, yes, but well, where there are people, there is both freedom and freedom. But I would like to challenge it, because what I think is problematic in terms of Fukuyama and now we are going into the really philosophical way is that he takes a copy of Western democracy and says that this is the case, and then he introduces a historical determinism that lies with Hegel, where Hegel, so to speak, saw the world spirit manifested in the Prussian state that one might perhaps ask whether it has anything to do with freedom. I'm just saying it as an aberdabei to Fukuyama's theory, which has a historical determinism over it that goes against freedom.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206154638	I would like to appeal to the House to remember that we are in the Folketing Yes, but that is why we are allowed to discuss it anyway). Yes, all Members have the right to discuss the subjects you wish to discuss. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206154650	Thank you for that, President. That is why the questioner and I agree that Fukuyama was wrong. Huntington says the right thing, and that is also why I say in my rapporteur's speech that he should have been recognised from the outset and not too late. For he says that political liberalism is not about universal values; it is about western values; it is only Western values. And one of the things he says in the book, which is not remembered much, is that that is why China will never buy human rights, because they are simply not recognised. That's why his theory was really better than Fukuyamas.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206154738	There is one more brief comment. Sir. Carl Holst.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206154742	What immediately made me mark was the remark that faith is a private matter. I sense that the rapporteur believes that a private matter and a personal matter are the same. It's not. And that's why Huntington was right. So, Hegel did not take it into account the liberal thinking of democracy; he forgot the cultural cohesion. That's why he can make all the horrible predictions in relation to the cultural tensions around the world, that is, predictions in relation to the reading thing, just as if you had two books and said that you nudged the one who was optimistic, but then it was the other who was right. I therefore believe that we must be careful to say that this is just a matter for the individual to work with for himself in a closed room. No, because then we will have that repression, that is, because cultural cohesion, based on faith, is one of the things that can help to prevent us from having these sub-regional conflicts, as Huntington predicted. So it doesn't matter whether it's private or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206154909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206154910	What is my point of view, which I claim to be in a liberal democracy, is a principle actually formulated by a man who was not liberal, namely Frederik the Great, and that is that everyone must be happy in his own faith. It goes against this very brutal missionary, for example. is in Islam, and the social control that you see there, and the right that you mean, for example. have to pursue atheists or religious dissidents. This whole discussion is avoided in liberal democracy, and of course it has something to do with the way liberal democracy is organized, but of course also with the way Protestant theology is organized. You know, there you like to refrain from persecuting others and say that everyone must be happy in his own faith.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206155007	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206155009	I haven't marked. It's a mistake if I've been registered for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206155019	I am sorry if I intervened at the wrong time, but the President's task is first and foremost to keep the debate on the subject, and when the President loses his ability to assess whether he is inside or outside the subject, I apologise. Well, I didn't go to any college and couldn't keep up. I'd like to admit that. But I hope that we were still on the subject. But thank you for the dialogue. Here you go to Mrs. Ulla Sandbæk from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206155045	Thank you very much. It is very, very rare that I agree with the Danish People's Party, which is why I am glad that today there is something that we are in complete agreement on, and that is that this is a very, very important issue. And I would like to thank the Minister for his statement. I am pleased that the government has chosen to strengthen Danish efforts for freedom of religion and belief. The alternative fully welcomes the creation of the new unit under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and welcomes the fact that Denmark has entered into a dialogue with the UN Special Rapporteur for Freedom of Religion and Faith and the UN Head of Action for Development and Religion to launch, in 2019, a UN-based dialogue on the development of normative work, on the cross-field between freedom of religion and belief and the SDG on equality. I look forward to getting more familiar with this initiative, which will come as part of Denmark's membership of the UN Human Rights Council. Perhaps the Minister will already lift a little of the veil about what she expects Denmark to contribute more specifically. It makes good sense to strengthen the right to freedom of religion as a central element of foreign and development policy. In its publication, the Institute for Human Rights expresses freedom of religion in Danish foreign and development policy... that religiously based discrimination, harassment and persecution are, of course, of primary importance to the individuals and groups who are victims of it. But it also has far-reaching social, political, economic and cultural consequences, both locally, nationally and internationally. From being the forgotten human right, it is now generally accepted that freedom of religion is inextricably linked to pluralism, tolerance, respect for diversity, and that as such it is the prerequisite for democracy, legal certainty and political stability. At the same time, if religious security is weakened, opportunities for poverty reduction and economic development are weakened. We also see that there is often a link between the restriction of religious freedom and a high level of military spending and armed conflict. And, as the statement says, a strong constitutional state and a well-functioning pluralist democracy, including knowledge and respect for freedom of religion and belief, help to weaken extremist forces in society and promote peaceful coexistence between religious communities. It is also important to state that freedom of religion and belief, not as it has been deliberately or unconsciously imposed, concerns the rights of religions, but rather the rights of individuals, as has already been said by some of my colleagues. Yet large parts of the world's population live in countries where freedom of religion is under pressure, and for the same reason there has never been more people fleeing because of their faith than there are today. Another important aspect of the right to freedom of religion is that it must necessarily be part of a broader human approach. The right to freedom of religion is inextricably linked to other human rights, including in particular the right to freedom of expression, the right to freedom of assembly and the right to respect for privacy. But other rights are also at stake. It is the case that persecution, harassment and discrimination against people are rarely limited by their right to have or express a belief; it is equally about their exclusion from safety, education and healthcare, from participation in public life and from equal working conditions. In other words, as such, the fight for freedom of religion is also a fight for other human rights: civil and political, as well as economic, social and cultural. We must therefore put pressure on the governments with which we have worked that they fulfil their responsibilities to protect human rights in the broadest sense in their respective countries. I do not want to go into all five other excellent traces of the government's particular efforts. My colleague Daniel Toft Jakobsen has already spoken about women's rights. Every time we are out talking, we are in complete agreement; I can just copy Daniel's speeches, and I can also do that on track two as the most important area, at least for me, namely the interplay between freedom of religion and belief and gender equality. Sir. Daniel Toft Jakobsen has also mentioned that it would be good if the ambassadors were obliged to report on the situation of religious and religious freedom in the various countries in their country reports. I think that would also be a sensible thing. I'm a priest, and you always keep being a priest. At the moment I am pastor emeritus, and as such I would like to copy Jesus a little in his way of spreading knowledge of things, at least his didactic way of approaching things. Jesus tells parables, because one can especially remember a story and a historical point, rather than a whole lot of words, and it is not to say that the debate we had with words before is not also relevant. But I'm going to go to Jesus for a while in the prayers. Of course, I am not going to tell you a parable, but I am going to tell you a fable, and then I hope that the President does not find it irrelevant to the subject. At any rate, I think the fable is very relevant to the issue we are currently discussing. The fable sounds like a man comes by a fire and sees that a snake is trapped in the fire and is burning up and dying. He then intervenes and takes the serpent out of the fire, and of course the serpent bites his hand. It hurts so much that he lets go of the snake, which in turn falls into the fire. But once again he bends down and takes the serpent out of the fire, and of course it bites him again in the hand, and again it hurts so badly that he must let it go, and it falls back into the fire. A passing man then says: Why are you so stubborn? Of course the snake will keep biting you, so why are you taking it out of the fire again? Then he says: It is the serpent's nature to do this, but I am a human being, and my nature is to help others. What makes me human is that I have empathy. The morality of this story is that no matter what happens to us, we must never forget our humanity. We must never compromise our empathy. What we have to do, says the fable, is find a way where we are not bitten by the serpent, and at the same time retain our humanity. I think this story is relevant to freedom of belief, because it is a very, very sensitive area where we can easily compromise with our humanity or demand that others do so. But the man in the fable here... I forgot to say... finally takes an iron rod, and with it he rescues the snake out of the fire. It can't be bited, it can't burn. In my optics, the iron bar is human rights. This is the tool we need to maintain our humanity and yet to go out into the world and fight for what we believe in and which must be of benefit to other people. We must rescue the serpent from the fire of human rights. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206155921	Thank you, Mrs Ulla Sandbæk. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Martin Lidegaard from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206155930	Thank you very much, President. It is difficult to come by, and in general it is a special debate that we have in the Danish Parliament today, because it is characterised by a little more dialogue and a little more human knowledge than it used to be, and it is quite terrifying to come after several theologians and philosophical conversations etc. I'll try to keep my level, even if I don't have quite the same knowledge. Like everyone else, I and we in the Radical Left consider the subject to be very important, and all we have to do is read the report to see that it is also sadly relevant. This is a growing problem we are discussing today, because more and more countries are restricting freedom of belief and religion. According to the report, it is three quarters of the earth's population that are actually affected by some form of reprisals, both for what they may believe or for what they may not believe. Several have mentioned Christians. I also think it is violent that every 12 Christians in the world have been persecuted in 144 countries, but it also affects Muslims in 142 countries, and I myself have to say that one of the most violent things I read was that 90%. of the Jews in Europe have seen a significant increase in anti-Semitism in the last few years. I think that is also a frighteningly high figure with the history that we now have in Europe in that area. By the way, there are all the atheists who, in several places, are having a hard time. So this is a cross-border problem, and it is a problem that belongs both to the political world, which has been mentioned by several people, but also to the human world, and that is why I think it was beautiful with the fable, because it is also a subject which must be dealt with not only by the state, politically and human rights but also by our human strings and which gives each of us a responsibility, regardless of which society we have now grown up in and live in. That is why I would also like to congratulate the government on the approach that has been taken to the theme, because what, as far as I can see through it, goes back to the five areas of action, but also throughout the approach, is that it is incorporated here in a large number of existing interventions. I really think that makes sense. This is, of course, in relation to human rights, because it is a human right, and it is linked to many of the other human rights, to equality, which several people have already mentioned, and also to the responsibility to protect, which is also a well-known concept, and which is also often about the extermination or persecution of people because of faith, or where faith is at least used or abused as an opportunity to attack. I believe that the approach which integrates this theme into much of the work already being done is already using an incredible amount of resources, both in the Danish Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Development and also in the United Nations and other international organisations, which also makes the day special • all parties in the Danish Parliament happy to join us, is the right approach, and we would certainly like to join the Danish way of going about it here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206160307	Thank you, sir. Martin Lidegaard, and welcome to Mr. Naser Khader of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206160314	I travel quite a bit to the Middle East and especially to Israel and Palestine, where I often drive with the same bus driver. It's a Christian Palestinian. Last year I got on the bus, and then he had a picture of Putin hanging on the bus. I asked, why is this xx hanging here? Then he said Putin is a hero. I don't think Putin is a hero. But then the Christian Palestinian driver said: Well he is the defender of us Christians here in the Middle East, the West has failed us. That's what was his main point. When I asked him what Putin has done for the Christians down there, he couldn't really put it into words. But at least he mentioned Syria, that is, Putin had entered Syria to protect Christians. I don't agree with that. But the point is that Putin is considered a great hero of many Christians in the Middle East. It is because they believe that there is no desire here in the West to talk about Christian persecution. You would rather not provoke, as some Danish humanitarian organisations have been out to say. You don't want to talk about it. I think we should do that. I think it should be addressed. This is extremely important. The fact that they know that we are aware of it makes a great impression. You have to keep that in mind. When we meet people from that part of the world where there is not so much freedom, and sometimes freedom fighters are mentioned by their name, they are sometimes surprised at it. I have good experience with that. It could be their life insurance. This was also the case during the Cold War. The life insurance of the dissidents was that their names and fate were known. I think we should also do this in relation to Christian persecution. Having said that, I would like to thank the Minister for Development for his statement. I think it is very, very good that we have got a unit in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to focus on Christian persecutions, but also persecutions of other religious minorities, including atheists. We are one of the few countries that today have it, as far as I know. Only Norway and the United States have it too. I think it is very important that it is on the political agenda and that we address it, because it is a huge problem. If you look at the figures, we see that today we have 200 million persecuted Christians. 30% of the Jewish population in Europe has been the victim of religiously motivated abuse, and no matter what faith you profess, the number of countries where you may be persecuted or experience abuse because of your faith has increased. In any case, we are very pleased that the government has put great emphasis on helping persecuted religious minorities. It's particularly positive that we finally got this unit. We are aware that the new measures not only solve the problem, but all other things being equal, it is a positive development that we have given priority to the area. We must not forget the value of sending a signal to the outside world. For around the world, they have noticed this unity Personally, for many years, I have been very concerned about the persecution of religious minorities around the world, especially in the Middle East. I fear that the Christians in the Middle East will suffer the same fate as the Jews in the Middle East. In the 1900s, 2 million Jews lived in the Middle East. Now you are down to a few thousand, mainly in Tunis and in Morocco. And the Middle East without religious minorities will be a very, very sad Middle East. It cannot be right that the Middle East should end up being an area where only salafist Sunnislim long-bearded men live. This diversity is important. Nor do we solve the problem of the persecution of Christian minorities by granting them all asylum in the West. That's not the answer. The solution is that they stay there and that we protect them down there and that we ensure that the regimes down there protect the Christian minorities in the same way as we do in Denmark in relation to synagogues, Jewish schools and other things. There it is extremely important that we draw their attention to the fact that they have a duty to protect their religious minorities. I also think it is extremely important that Denmark, through the EU and the UN, put pressure on those governments around the world where religious minorities are subjected to discrimination, persecution and killing. It is important for Denmark, together with the other European countries, to take a clear and unequivocal stand in which we jointly condemn religious persecution. But even though it is Christians who make up the largest group, we must be careful to make the fight against religious persecution a Christian project. We must be careful that we not only focus on one group, although the Christians have our main focus. It is also important that we pay attention, for example, to atheists in Saudi Arabia. I have been told that there are relatively more atheists in Saudi Arabia than in the United States, but they are very, very difficult in Saudi Arabia. After all, where there are religious fanatics, religious minorities will be persecuted. Where there are states that do not guarantee and guarantee freedom of religion, religious minorities will be persecuted. Terrorist organisations such as the Islamic State, Boku Haram, Al-Shabaab and others are, of course, the biggest criminals in this context, but we must not forget that states too are largely responsible for these persecutions. Around the world are regimes that maintain legislation that aims to persecute and, at worst, execute individuals because of their beliefs. There are also regimes where people are prosecuted because of different beliefs or prisons. I am thinking of the case of Dennis Christensen in Moscow, who has just been severely punished for his mission to Jehovah's Witnesses. That's an enormously harsh sentence. And the fact that Putin defends Christians is then with the judgment against Dennis Christensen disproved, although some will question whether Jehovah's Witnesses are Christians. But I hope this unit will keep an eye on Dennis Christensen's case and see if he's got a fair trial and if there's anything you can do to help him. But most importantly, we must make it clear that we are fighting for the world's religious minorities. They should know that there are some who are actually doing something, and the higher we shout, the greater the chance that we get more on the wagon and back up the persecuted Christians and others differently thinking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206161130	You're welcome. There are two brief comments, and one is Mr. Christian Langballe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206161134	I cannot but welcome the fact that it is, of course, a fundamental question of defending freedom of religion, which is a good thing for every society, because human freedom is a good thing. That's the way it is. What I would like to ask is, however, about the Christian persecution that is taking place in the Middle East, because I think it is striking, so massive, and that the West has turned a blind eye for a lot of years. For I actually experienced it myself demonstrated at a conference organized by Esben Lunde Larsen here, where a lot of scientists had been summoned and where one of the conclusions was that Christian persecution was not a separate problem. Then I thought, "Oh, my gosh, that's rough shit anyway. And it was in Denmark. I would say that the rapporteur confirms this, and that is why I think it is so good that the government and the minister are now putting so much emphasis on what they are doing. So I think it's excellent. But it was such an attempt at a question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206161251	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206161252	I'm trying to answer a question, a possible question. It is true that some of the greatest Christian persecutions are taking place in the Muslim world, but not all Muslim governments are going after Christians in their countries. So we have to keep that in mind. Those who are particularly concerned about Christians are therefore fundamentalist groups. If you take a country like Egypt, you can see that it is primarily Islamists who go after churches. However, I believe that the Egyptian state fails when it does not ensure that there is enough protection around the churches on Sundays, where the attacks often take place. Therefore, when we meet with them, we must point this out and say that they have a duty to protect their own citizens, and so the Christians have been there longer than some of the other groups. It is extremely important that we stick to the fact that the Middle East must continue to have different religious groups. There's no point in everyone running away from there.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206161401	Then we move on to Mrs Ulla Sandbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206161405	Thank you very much. The rapporteur mentioned that it was a Palestinian taxi driver that he had a conversation with Bus driver)... bus driver. I would like to say so that I have lived together four years in Palestine and that I have never met a single Christian who has felt persecuted in Palestine. What Palestinian Christians are saying is that it is the Israeli occupation that makes them move. Only recently there was a man with a small business in Bethlehem who made carved Christian figures, who very, very clearly said that he could not get the import and export of his figures. All the roads were blocked, and his business was going downstairs, all because of Israel's occupation, and therefore he will now move. I think it is important to say, when we now mention Palestine, that there is no Christian persecution in Palestine, either by the Palestinian authorities or by the Palestinian people, but that the Christians themselves say that it is all from Israel's occupation.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206161506	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206161508	I very much disagree. In fact, there are Christian Palestinians fleeing into Israel because those who have greater freedom than in Gaza, for example. Until 2006, about 5,000 Christian Palestinians lived in Gaza. They're down to under 500 today because of persecution. You can't sell Bibles, you can't mission. So Hamas has targeted the Christian Palestinians in Gaza. So it is not true when it is said that there is no persecution of Christians. But in the West Bank it is also different from one region to another. In Ramallah, in Bethlehem the Christians are well, but if you go deeper into the West Bank, for example to Nablus, Christians are thus under pressure. So it is not clear that Christians are not being persecuted in the Palestinian territories. It is not by the PLO, the PA self-government, but by the Islamist groups. That is what has happened in Gaza.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206161612	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206161614	So the Islamist groups are not very much in Palestine on the West Bank. I've lived around here myself. 4 years right next to Nablus, namely in Tulkarem, and there was absolutely no persecution. But that does confirm what I am saying: there are Christians moving into Israel because there is greater freedom. The reason why they cannot be in the West Bank is precisely the lack of freedom, and the lack of freedom is because of the occupation, the economic stranglehold that is being taken. Gaza is, of course, a completely different talk, but Gaza cannot be turned into the whole of Palestine.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206161651	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206161653	There are both Christians and non - Christians who do not feel that they have freedom during the occupation, so it is not just about the Christians there. This also applies to Muslim Palestinians. But the fact is that where the Islamists are strengthened, the Christians and other different religious minorities also find it difficult.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206161718	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader. There are no more brief comments. I am pleased to welcome the Minister for Development Cooperation now.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206161732	Thank you. I do not feel that I can stand here on the platform of the Danish Parliament and talk about the Danish Government's efforts towards freedom of belief and religion on a day like today without even reflecting on the fact that a Dane in Russia has actually been sentenced to a violent punishment in my view precisely because of his faith, and therefore just a few remarks about Dennis Christensen. I think it's a really, really sad day for Dennis Christensen and his family. It is a terrible judgment given by Dennis Christensen of Jehovah's Witnesses today in Russia. I think that in every way it underlines the need for the government and, therefore, also Denmark's efforts to promote freedom of religion and belief and the protection of religious minorities, including Christians, and I think that it is in every way up to date our debate here in the Danish Parliament. The closure of Jehovah's Witnesses in Russia and now also the actual judgment against Dennis Christensen are, in my view, a worrying interference in religious and religious freedom. In my view, the restriction of freedom of religion in Russia is deeply worrying. The fact that Jehovah's Witnesses are viewed as an extremist organization and are placed in the same category as violent terrorist organizations does not belong anywhere, even in Russia. We will continue to fight for the fundamental freedoms of religious and religious freedom, and we will keep Russia respectful of them, and we will, of course, continue to raise this matter with the Russians, because in Russia too there are more people who can see the wrong thing in the persecution of peaceful members of Jehovah's Witnesses, as the judgment here also shows. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has also brought the case against Dennis Christensen before the Russian Foreign Minister when they met last year and we are constantly raising our concern about the general restriction of freedom of faith vis-à-vis the Russians, both bilaterally and together with other European countries in different international contexts. The conditions for Jehovah's Witnesses in Russia have been on the agenda several times in the OSCE and in the Council of Europe, and Denmark will, of course, continue to hold Russia up to respect for religious and religious freedom. Of course, this also applies to religious minorities. We will do so in particular in the forums, the OSCE and the Council of Europe, where Russia has undertaken these commitments. So back to the debate here in the Folketing, and thank you very much for it. I think this has been a very, very good debate. We have gone a long way and there have been a great many good input and comments that I will take with me in the further work. We have also had a somewhat more far-reaching debate at times than usual, and I take this as an expression of the fact that there is a great deal of interest in the subject. In the statement, we have tried to describe both the global situation of freedom of religion and belief and the five tracks that we have chosen to work on and thus also to address in particular. But before I reflect on some of what has been said in this debate, I would like to stress that the fact that we have the debate here today in the way we debate it, based on a statement that I have made to the Danish Parliament, is in itself historic and new. I am aware that this has not happened in the past, and I think that we have reason to acknowledge and praise each other for having come there, that we are now discussing this openly in the Folketing and also agree that we are, of course, prepared to strengthen our efforts in this area. I think it was also mentioned by one of the rapporteurs, and I do not exactly remember who it was who mentioned it, that this area has often been mentioned as the forgotten human right, and perhaps that is why it is not the human right we have had the greatest focus on in the Folketing in the past. However, with the unit of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that we have had made and with the clues that we have now laid and let me stress that it is only just a good year since we started, I think that we have actually come a long way, I would say if the Minister is allowed to praise himself, but I have also listened to the parties in the Folketing in such a way as to recognise it and do the same. So thank you for that. After all, we have also allocated funds in my budget to push forward various initiatives and various projects. Overall, with the 2019 Finance Act, we have decided to add 5 million. kr. From the aid funds to the effort, and in the large money box that I otherwise manage, it may sound like a small amount of money, but I have no doubt that with the policy we also outline, we can actually help to make a difference. So what has happened, and what do I expect to happen? Well, we will continue along the five tracks outlined. And if I just have to dive into it like that and mention a few things that have happened in the past year, then I myself had the opportunity to attend the first international meeting at ministerial level on religious freedom. It was held in Washington and on the same occasion I had the opportunity to meet with Nadia Murad, who has last received the Nobel Peace Prize. Of course, she has received it in recognition of the work she has done, and it can be said that she has risen from shame. She has told the world about the atrocities she and many others have had to undergo in connection with discrimination against women and girls, and also about the reduction of the potential of women and girls in that part of the world, of course. I think it is a good thing that this particular area was, what can be said, recognised by the Nobel Peace Prize. The core of freedom of religion and belief is, of course, that we all have the right to practise our religion of our choice and in accordance with our own values and wishes. It also implies the right to change our faith or perhaps not to believe at all. Article 18 of the United Nations Convention on Civil and Political Rights states that this is also the article on which our action is based. Just maybe two words also about some of the individual cases, which have also been touched upon by several rapporteurs. To this I would just like to say that in recent years many media have dealt with several cases of individuals who have been persecuted in one way or another because there has been no freedom of religion and belief. Now Asia Bibi has been mentioned by a few rapporteurs, and I am obviously relieved that the Pakistani Supreme Court ended up acquitting Asia Bibi, who was in prison for, I think, about 10 years, and that the acquittal has just been definitively confirmed. We follow on from the Danish side cases of people persecuted by religion, and often we participate in the international dialogue and coordination that is taking place, and this is, of course, a dialogue and coordination that is not part of the public debate. With regard to the question of which cases we select, who they include and in which countries, I am unfortunately not able to stand here on the floor of Parliament's platform and speak completely openly about it. At the same time, this means that I have no opportunity to reply when we are criticized for not doing enough. Recently there was an article in Kristeligt Dagblad, where a number of priests did not think that we were doing enough on that front; there is a bit of difficulty in replying, as this is confidential information, and it is often the case that it would also be perceived as counterproductive if one were to interfere in the public debate about it. But the starting point for the individual track, which is, of course, one of the five tracks we have in our overall efforts, is that we expect to work on two or three specific cases of persecuted people that we choose for ourselves. We have established a number of criteria to ensure that potential costs match what we expect to achieve by engaging in individual cases. We are talking here potentially, among other things. on the safety of Danish travellers, on employees at Danish representations and at all on wider foreign policy interests, which of course we will also have to take into account in what we are doing in this field. However, in our choice we are not guided by how well-known the persecuted person is. Unfortunately, there are many examples of relatively unknown individual persecuted people who are in prison in infamous conditions around the world • people who do not have a backing group on Facebook and who do not have the resources or access to put out a tweet, but who have at least as much need of our efforts as if the opposite were true. Finally, I would just like to emphasise that Denmark supports the principle that human rights are universal, indivisible, interdependent and interrelated. On the other hand, the government acknowledges that freedom of religion and belief has not received the attention it should have received and that for some years it has received a step-motherly treatment and, as I said, has been characterised as the forgotten human right. It is precisely in the light of this imbalance, and it is with a clear eye on the increasingly inferior situation of religious and religious freedom, which has also been mentioned by several rapporteurs, with more and more persecuted people, including especially Christians, that we, on the part of the government, have gone in and put a particular focus on precisely this right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206163042	You're welcome. I have to say, before we take the debate, that self-esteem is within the framework. Otherwise, the presidents would probably get pretty busy. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206163057	In any case, I would say to the President that if self-restraint was forbidden in the Folketing, perhaps the question was whether there would be so many debates. But let it go. I would just like to ask the last question, namely that the Minister says that you cannot go into cases and make criticisms and things like that. Well, I guess we're agreed that, for example... Something like there was 8 per cent. Christians in Iraq and now only 1%. I hope that this will be done from 1987 until today, and that it will not be a secret. I just need to understand. It is simply a matter of understanding.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206163144	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206163146	One of the tracks that we want to work with in our efforts is about individual cases. What the rapporteur has mentioned here has fallen in the number of Christians in Iraq and, as such, there is no real coherence. So, I may have come to express myself a little clumsy, but what I mentioned about individual cases is the difficulty of being very, what can be said, outgoing and participating in the public debate. This may make solutions to individual cases more difficult. If, for example, Is someone who is imprisoned in a country because of religion imagining that it will necessarily be easier to get him out of prison if there is a great and violent debate? Or is it perhaps the quiet diplomacy that should work? It may be different on a case-by-case basis, but as a starting point there is a familiarity with the solution of individual cases or I imagine that there is a need for confidentiality and therefore no room for, if I am now to be such a very direct political profiling on the basis of individuals who are in prison for these reasons. Yeah, that's two different things.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206163319	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206163322	Well, applause from here, of course. It is clear that there are some cases which are not suitable for the debate to take place in the country's newspapers or on television. That is the way it is; I fully acknowledge that. Well, that's okay, thanks for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206163336	Sir. Daniel Toft Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206163338	Thank you. And thank you again for the statement and for the debate here. I also think it has been very constructive. Thank you also for your words about Russia, which I think is very appropriate today. I actually just have a small and perhaps a little, you might almost say, organisational question. In other words, when it comes to this effort and the unit that has been set up in connection with the effort, I hope that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will have as much access to it as the Minister for Development has. I am very pleased that the Minister for Development has made the statement and that we have had this debate today, but as far as I can see when I read the statement, it might as well have been the Minister for Foreign Affairs as I immediately see it. It may sound as if I would rather have spoken to the Foreign Minister, but that is not at all what this is about. I am extremely pleased that the Minister for Development is here and has presented the statement. I just think it is important that this matter of freedom of belief and religion should be considered both in the things the Minister for Development is doing and in the work of the Foreign Minister. So I just hope the Minister will confirm that this is the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206163453	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206163454	Absolutely. We have a unitary foreign service in Denmark. It is the government that has made a statement, but the Foreign Minister is, of course, as much in the field as I am when it comes to bilateral contacts and what is happening in this area at all. I also mentioned that the case of Dennis Christensen has been raised at a meeting between the Russian Foreign Minister and the Danish Foreign Minister. So, yes, of course, the unit service means that both ministers are completely equal in this field.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206163541	Then we would like to thank the Minister for Development Cooperation. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak? There isn't. Then the debate is closed and there are no votes on statements, so the whole matter is closed with this debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190206163559	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting, apart from thanking everyone for today's work in the service of the people, both with the more popular but also with the academic speeches. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 7 February 2019 at 6 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
