ParlaMint-DK_20190828130004	The meeting is open. I am well aware that there is much to talk about in the different party groups such a day after the summer break, but welcome back, all of you. We have to get to work and, fortunately, we have a relatively short agenda today. Today there are the following notifications: the Committee on the Rules of Procedure has made: report and recommendation to amend the Rules of Procedure of Parliament. B 3). The report and the recommendation will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Danish People's Party Parliamentary Group has informed me that a member of the Folketing, Hans Kristian Skibby, has been appointed as a member of the Salary Council instead of Susanne Eilersen for the remainder of the current term of office, and that members of the Folketing Denni Flydtkjær and René Christensen have been appointed as alternates instead of Jep Jakobsen and Marlene Harpsøe for the remainder of the current term of office. The Radical Left Parliamentary Group has informed me that it has appointed Rune Christiansen as a member of the South Schleswig Committee from 26 August 2019 instead of a member of the Folketing Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20190828130131	Lotte Rod (RV) has applied for leave from 2 September 2019, according to section 41 of the Rules of Procedure. 4. If any of you do not object, I shall consider it agreed that leave of absence should be granted as applied for and that the deputy should be called as a temporary member. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190828130203	From the Committee on the Jeppe of Kofod, I have received the recommendation that the First Deputy of the Social Democratic Party, Marianne Vind, be approved as a representative of the European Parliament as from 2 July 2019 onwards. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190828130233	The committee's recommendation shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken now. We shall conclude the vote now. In favour, 117 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT, NB and LA) voted against, 0 abstentions. The Committee's recommendation was adopted unanimously by 117 votes.
ParlaMint-DK_20190828130303	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the first deputy for the Radical Left in the Greater District of South Jutland, Nils Sjøberg, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing as from 2 September 2019 on the occasion of Lotte Rod's leave. Does anyone wish to speak? There is not, and then we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190828130327	The committee's recommendation shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken now. I shall conclude the vote now. The Committee's recommendation was adopted unanimously by 117 votes.
ParlaMint-DK_20190828130357	The debate is open and the first to speak is Mrs Camilla Fabricius. I would like to ask for calm not only because there are many new people who must have the opportunity to be heard from the platform, but also because it is a good practice not to speak while the rapporteurs have the floor. If you're going to talk, please go out to the adjacent chambers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190828130503	With this proposal that we are debating today, we are closing a gap in the rules on the collection of electoral declarations and also providing an opportunity for subsequent sanctions. On the part of the Social Democrats, we have always believed that the legislation must, of course, be up-to-date and follow the developments in which the rest of society is moving. We have even committed ourselves to digitalisation legislation, which is why the Folketing also chose to digitise the procedure for collecting electoral declarations as early as 2014. Last year it was followed by a conciliation agreement that allowed the collection of electoral declarations via a portal on the Internet. Before, the collection of electoral declarations was a very difficult process, which cost both the municipalities and the parties and the electorate a great deal of time, and with the new solution an old problem was solved. So today, when a voter wants to support a party, the voter must give his email address to the party as an indication of support. Subsequently, the party enters the email address into the party's special electoral declaration system and from there the party simply releases the matter. From the party has entered the electorate's email address into the electorate's declaration system, it takes 7 days, after which the system sends a message to the electorate with an invitation that they then use their NemID to go in and say yes to. In this way we are simply observing this period of reflection and we ensure that the electorate has the opportunity to actually consider supporting the given party. Unfortunately, however, some parties have bypassed the period of reflection by creating thousands of e-mail addresses themselves, and in this way the parties have received links for making electoral declarations instead of the voters doing so. The parties have therefore made many links available to the electorate, which the parties have then built from the parties' websites. It is simply against the rules and against the essence of our democratic construction itself. It is also a really serious matter which the Social Democrats have looked at very seriously. Unfortunately, however, it turned out that it had not subsequently given the then Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior the opportunity to sanction the parties that broke the period of reflection. Therefore, the Ministry could simply make representations and ask to rectify it, but the Ministry could not annul or otherwise enforce the case. Today's draft law is intended to remedy the problem of the lack of sanction, and the draft law proposes, inter alia, that, at the request of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Home Affairs, in the event of a serious or repeated breach of law in connection with the party's collection of electoral declarations, the Election Board may decide to exclude a party from continuing to collect electoral declarations and allow the cancellation of collected declarations. So we're gonna close this gap with this bill and we're gonna make a long-term model. In the Social Democratic Party, we want as many people as possible to participate in our democracy, and that is why we also need to remove the unintended barriers that may once come, for example, with the statements that have been collected. But it is also crucial for us that voters can have confidence in the way things are going, especially when it comes to our democracy. Social democracy therefore supports the bill, of course. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190828130904	Thank you very much to Mrs Camilla Fabricius. Is there a brief comment from Mrs Rosa Lund? No, there isn't. So I would like to thank Mrs Camilla Fabricius and congratulate her on her virginity. Then we move on to Mrs Anni Matthiesen from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190828130922	Thank you for that, President. And yes, it is the case that we are currently dealing with a legislative proposal which is actually being dealt with urgently because there is a gap we need to close quickly. The proposal here contributes to supplementing the conciliation agreement on a new procedure for collecting electoral declarations back from March 2019, which all parties of the Folketing at that time helped to conclude. It has recently become apparent that the procedure for collecting electoral declarations has not been followed to the letter, and that is one of the things that we in the Left, of course, think is important that we should now put an end to. It is not appropriate, in fact, if it is the case that the rules cannot be circumvented, in particular, it can be said, in a democratic society such as we have, and that is why it is one of the things that we need to deal with urgently in this Chamber. In concrete terms, the conciliation agreement introduces a new portal system for the collection of electoral declarations, and this is expected to enter into force at the beginning of 2020, when the voters will have to identify twice, i.e. twice. with NemID before they can make a final valid electoral declaration and thus also help to support a party's establishment. Since, as I said, this procedure is only ready by 2020, we in the Left are very pleased that the government has now worked urgently on this bill to close a gap. In fact, this draft law introduces a number of sanctions so that, at the request of the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior, the Election Board can decide to exclude parties from collecting electoral declarations and also cancel a party's collection of electoral declarations by serious or repeated legal infringement. All in all, we believe that this is a good bill. It may be that we may just have a few questions that we will be asking during the committee procedure, but, as I said, we in the Left at least support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190828131141	Thank you very much to Mrs Anni Matthiesen. There are no brief comments, so we shall move on to Mr Beazley's report. Bent Bøgsted from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190828131151	Thank you for that, President. This bill has, of course, been put in place since it was found before the elections that something inappropriate happened in connection with the collection of electoral declarations regarding the approval of electoral declarations by new parties, also using NemID. The rules were not complied with, but the law at that time did not allow sanctions to be imposed. A portal system has been created for the collection of electoral declarations, but it has not been established yet and will not be established until 2020. But until that happens, this bill has ensured that, at the request of the Minister for the Interior, the Election Board, which is independent of the government, can discard electoral declarations if they have been wrongly collected. In this context, a party may also be required not to collect more electoral declarations for a period of time. That is why there are such fairly strict sanctions for electoral declarations, and so must there be. It should not be the case that you cheat on electoral declarations. It must be the case that this is done in an honest and honest manner and that those who have made a declaration of their own accord also approve compliance with the rules. It must be the case that it is your own personal approval that applies. It should not be the case that it is a party that can just sit and have electoral declarations approved in mass, as it seems to have happened. You may personally enter and approve, and you may do so from your own e-mail address. So far, so good. Then there is a question of the funds received. After all, you get some money when you run as a party, depending on how many votes you get. And it would be fair if it were the case that if you've cheated, you lose the right to money. I have heard that the Minister has talked a little about it, and I would therefore like to know whether the Minister could perhaps explain what the situation is when a party that has cheated, i.e. cheated on the weight, gets a statement that this is not going to work. What's going on with that money? Can you stop the payout they're gonna have? It would be nice if the Minister could explain this and that it was also written into the law. Because I haven't been able to find anything about this in the law. I do not know whether it is necessary for me to send a question to the Minister or whether it is something the Minister brings from here. The Minister nods, but I assume that the Minister also comes up with a few points on this from the platform. Because if you get some money, it's supposed to be used to promote party politics and not as we've heard about • e.g. is given to a charitable organisation or used for the remuneration of the person who has now set up. That is not really the purpose of it. So that is certainly something that we would like to have clarified in the Danish People's Party before we finally agree to the proposal. But as such, it seems okay what has come out here in the bill. So we have a few questions: what is the situation with your own personal approval, i.e. whether it can be ensured that no one else can approve for a person, and also this with the economy. Once we have an answer to that, I think we have reached the point where we can also say yes to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190828131546	Thank you very much, sir. Bent Bøgsted. There are no brief comments, which is why I warmly welcome Mrs Kathrine Olldag from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190828131555	Thank you, President. Everyone has and must have the opportunity to reach out for influence and create a new party. It is one of the unshakable pillars of our democracy. Everyone has the right to be heard, including those with whom we do not agree. We embrace and protect minorities, give them the right to speak, the right to speak and access to power. We have a very low threshold and full freedom of expression to ensure that everyone is able to speak out for a freedom that we protect with beaks and claws, by the way, also when it shatters its ears and draws on the police resources and our all patience. New parties simply have to comply with a few simple rules of the game laid down in the Act on Elections to the Folketing. But we have here a law that has so far created such a good framework for new parties that, in our eagerness to help new initiatives, we have been paradoxically more concerned with their means of redress than with protecting ourselves from them. Not a word has so far appeared in the legislative text about the consequences of not complying with the rules. A month ago, a Nepalese youth politician asked me: What is the essence of Danish democracy? Trust, I answered. Trust is the foundation on which our democracy is built. No one in Denmark takes more strawberries in the road stall than they pay for. We have and must have an extremely high degree of trust in each other, and in this case it has also influenced legislation. For no one had imagined in their wildest imagination that some would cheat our democracy itself and exploit a law that lays out a red carpet in front of those who reach for influence. We didn't believe anyone would take strawberries without paying. But the confidence that political parties are decent and fair was broken during the election campaign. The hole in the law was grossly exploited to its own obvious advantage, while all honest and honest parties, who were legally fighting every day to collect signatures, were made a laughing stock. It is therefore with great pleasure that we in the Radical Left support the government's bill to tighten up the law on elections to the Danish Parliament, so that the election board now has the possibility of sanctioning those parties which could in future be tempted to cheat power in the same way as we saw during the election campaign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190828131833	Thank you very much, Mrs Kathrine Olldag, and welcome to Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk from the Socialist People's Party. And by the way, congratulations on the virginity.
ParlaMint-DK_20190828131846	Thank you. Making an electoral declaration shall be binding and a citizen may only make one electoral declaration. Therefore, it makes very good sense that we cannot bypass the period of reflection prescribed by the law. Unfortunately, prior to the last parliamentary elections, a practice arose in which at least two new parties had found a way of circumventing the rules of reflection. It must never be an option that voters feel pressured to make electoral declarations here and there either right now. Voter declarations are quite simply too important to be influenced by a slightly too eager telephone salesman. There was also agreement on this before the last elections, and in March we decided that a new portal should be established for the collection of electoral declarations. The portal must ensure that you cannot cheat on the electoral declarations, and that is very good. The challenge is that it will not be ready until 2020. As long as we continue to collect electoral declarations as we have done so far, it is also possible to cheat on them. Unfortunately, the legislation does not provide for sanctions. So with the proposal that has been put forward now, it will be possible to declare electoral declarations which have been unlawfully collected to be null and void. It is the Election Board that can declare collected electoral declarations invalid. And the election board is independent of the Folketing. So we welcome the fact that the new Minister for the Interior is showing a willingness to stop illegal collections of electoral declarations. In the SF, we already called for the possibility of preventing the illegal collection of electoral declarations. However, the previous government did not want to contribute to this at the time. We are still looking forward to establishing a new portal which will facilitate the work of the Election Board, as it will not be possible to cheat on the declarations in future. In addition, the portal will ensure that new parties wishing to become ready for parliament are also clear about who they are and who they are that actually collect these electoral declarations. In the meantime, it is important that we put an end to the illegal practice of collecting electoral declarations. Of course, the SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190828132111	Thank you very much to Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk and congratulations on the virginity. Then I give the floor to Mrs Rosa Lund from the Red Greens.
ParlaMint-DK_20190828132124	Thank you. It is important that we have a living democracy in Denmark. I think that is one of the things we basically agree on in this Parliamentary Chamber. It is important that there are no unnecessary barriers to new political trends and people with new or, for that matter, old political ideas being able to organise themselves and run for elections. In the view of the Enhedslisten, it should not be too difficult to be approved as a standing party for a parliamentary election. On the other hand, we would very much like to help make it very difficult to circumvent the rules that are intended to be eligible for registration. It is important for us that there is no ambiguity in the legislation, that there are no loopholes that allow parties to become eligible, even if established rules have been openly disregarded. Therefore, in the Enhedslisten, we are also part of the agreement of March of this year to gather electoral declarations in the future via a public portal on the Internet, which is why we agree with the government that there is a need for urgent legislation that can close the gap that exists in the legislation today and which, up to the recent parliamentary elections, was exploited by parties that collected electoral declarations in blatant violation of the rules. Repeated representations by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Interior that the period of reflection had not been respected were completely ignored, and the Ministry was unable to intervene or act, as there was no possibility of sanctioning the parties concerned. This is, of course, totally unacceptable. The Enhedslist can therefore also agree that sanctions are now being imposed on parties cheating on the collection of electoral declarations, and we can support the bill put forward by the government. However, I would like to emphasise, as is also done in the comments to the draft law, that it is very important that the sanction imposed is proportionate to the nature of the breach of the rules to be prevented. These are very intrusive sanctions, and it is therefore important to stress that the exclusion of a party from continuing the collection of electoral declarations can only take place in the event of a serious or repeated infringement of law. This is also in the comments, but I think it is extremely important to emphasise this. We also believe that it is right that the decision to sanction should be placed with the electoral board and that the draft law makes it clear that the position of the Minister to ask the electoral board to intervene will be subject to general principles of administrative legality and proportionality. However, in our view, it could be considered in the legislative process whether, with the extension of the powers of the Election Board, it may be appropriate to emphasise the independence of the Board and to strengthen the representation of the courts in the Election Board. This can be done by extending the number of national and Supreme Court judges from one to two. We have noted that there are no objections in the consultation responses to the draft law to the imposition of sanctions and that the Ministry has complied with most of the recommendations contained in the consultation responses. In the Enhedslisten, we also think it is positive that they have been listened to. Against this background, we can therefore support the draft law. We have a few questions about the internship, but I'll save you and send them over to the Ministry in writing. But on the basis of this, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190828132458	Thank you to Mrs. Rosa Lund, and welcome to Mr. Egil Hulgaard of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190828132504	It is a great honour to stand here on Parliament's platform for the first time and address the Folketing. By law, land must be built: when laws are broken and it has no consequence, faith in our democracy is broken down. And it is particularly serious when it comes to parties seeking to be placed in parliament. It is therefore also satisfactory that the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior proposes, with this bill, to introduce consequences for parties that circumvent the rules for collecting electoral declarations. It has so far been without any scope for sanctions, and the previous government has also drawn up this proposal and has worked to close that gap. The law must ensure that circumvention of the collection of electoral declarations can have consequences. And that is quite right. Applicable law must ensure that a party that sets up for the Folketing has a real opportunity to be elected. Therefore, the existing two-step process for electoral declarations must be respected. When, according to the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior, two parties in connection with the last parliamentary elections jumped over where the fence was lowest, perhaps in the knowledge that it was without consequences, it was not proper. It is not fair to us who have been elected to the Folketing, and certainly not to the Danes who expect properness from the political system. It could potentially have been a constant source of distrust if a party in the Folketing had entered on the basis of cheating with electoral declarations. To put it simply: it is too bad that parties seeking to be placed in parliament are deliberately trying to cheat themselves in. It's not worthy of anyone. The proposed amendment of the law is needed. Not only because it is too bad that parties try to cheat themselves in, but also to ensure that future parties comply with the rules. In July, the Election Board recognised 37 new applications for party names and another 33 are waiting for approval. It is a record and, of course, it is positive that the Danes have the courage to develop democracy and the courage to develop democratic tradition, but if the political debate leading up to a parliamentary election or an election in general is transformed into a goat market by irresponsible contributors, then it muddles the serious political debate and the electorate is experiencing a dysfunctional democratic system. We must then also ask ourselves whether our political system is strong enough, since so many seem to think more parties are needed. Are we in this Chamber good enough to get the Danes to speak and represent them? The number of people wishing to form their own party is increasing, while the number of politically active political parties in the existing political parties has been decreasing for many years. We have a constant challenge to ensure that the Danes feel represented by us in this Chamber. At the same time, however, there must also be a call for those who want to create a new party to look at whether they can be accommodated before any of the existing parties. We can also look abroad, where few countries have such a pluralist political system as Denmark. It is our belief that the proud pluralistic tradition leads to stronger democratic development. The Conservative People's Party is concerned with legal certainty and a sensible balance between state and citizens. So when we introduce consequences into this legislative proposal, we must at the same time bear in mind that it is still possible to become eligible for registration. With the new digital opportunities, that is not the problem, perhaps rather, quite the opposite. Perhaps there should be additional requirements for parties wishing to set up, in the form of payment for processing or claims for board and statutes, as we know from association life. The present draft law introduces intrusive sanctions as a temporary option to stop collecting electoral declarations if there is a reasonable suspicion. In connection with an imminent election, this is a serious delay in the affected party, so we therefore call for the accompanying guidance or comments to introduce clear time limits for the proceedings, also in order to avoid accusations of misuse of power. With those words, the Conservative People's Party will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190828132916	Thank you very much, sir. Egil Hulgaard, and congratulations on the virginity. Welcome to sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190828132927	Thank you. This bill has been well and thoroughly described, not least by a number of new colleagues here in Parliament, whom I would like to warmly welcome, but I will not repeat the many descriptions. We largely agree with everything, so in the alternative we just think that we should do what we can to counteract cheating on electoral declarations. The alternative is in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20190828132950	Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl, and warm welcome to Mrs Mette Thiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20190828133002	I would like to start by saying that it is a really great honour to stand here on the platform of the Danish Parliament. New citizens are a new party, we have just been elected in the Folketing, and we therefore have a good knowledge of the law on the collection of electoral declarations. Since 2015, when the party was founded, the party's founders, Pernille Vermund and Peter Seier Christensen, have gathered electoral declarations together with good supporters. All electoral declarations have been collected in the legal manner prescribed by the law. On the streets and straits and digitally, an unstable and faulty system was worn and dragged and bothered. It took approx. One year and approx. 40,000 electoral declarations in. It was twice what the law requires, but it was because of the thoughtfulness period of 7 days, which meant that many were never confirmed with NemID. In New Citizens we know about someone how much work it is to collect signatures. 20,000 signatures are many, and the law, as it is described, is true. Now all we have to do is ensure that it is complied with. But it should not be harder to set up as a new party in Denmark. It is an important part of our democracy that new parties can bite the old ones in their hanks. It is an important part of democracy that new parties can be elected in the Folketing when the population gets tired of the old and established. New parties are important when the old ones fail, and we are a good example of this. In connection with the recent parliamentary elections, there were several new parties on the ballot. It was also in this election that we became aware that the law can be circumvented when electoral declarations are collected. The seven-day period of reflection, which we in the New Citizen respected to the letter, was bypassed by other parties. And, of course, it shouldn't be like that. The draft law we are dealing with today addresses precisely that problem. It closes the gap in the legislation used in the recent parliamentary elections. The new legislation ensures that it cannot be used in the future free of charge. The new legislation ensures that there are sanctions if a party does not legally collect electoral declarations. In short, it should not be harder to put on the ballot paper, but it should not be possible to cheat the system. Of course, electoral declarations must be brought together legally, as the terms must be the same for all parties. Therefore, New Citizens can back up Bill L 1. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-DK_20190828133255	Thank you to Mrs Mette Thisen and congratulations on the virginity. Welcome to sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190828133303	Thank you. We are standing here today because, when the electoral law was revised last time, so that it was possible to make electronic electoral declarations, a rule was made without imposing a sanction to break that rule. It was not of bad will; it was because one did not have the imagination to imagine that it was possible to cheat and bypass the rule. But that was it, and that is why we must now make the law so that sanctions come in to cheat. The Liberal Alliance supports this for the same reasons that have been mentioned here by other rapporteurs before me. We're voting for the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190828133342	Thank you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. There are no brief comments, and that is why we are now moving on to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20190828133349	Thank you very much for that, President, and first of all a great congratulations to all those colleagues who have delivered their maiden speeches, as we call it in here, today. It is actually always quite touching to be part of it and to be allowed to experience it. And so a big thank you to the Folketing parties that they will help us to stand here today and deal with this bill as a matter of urgency. I don't take that lightly; I'm really glad I've been able to do that. Although there is a short time to deal with the bill, I still hope we can have a good debate on the content. And I would say that the speeches that have been from the platform so far are very much an expression of that. There have been many very handsome and touching words about our democracy and about some of the core values that bind us together and about trust in our society. I would also like to sign for the enthusiasm of several rapporteurs, of also raising some of the wider, important discussions for us as a society and as a democracy, which, in all modesty, we have to say is beyond L 1 itself, although this is an important legislative proposal. But it is just fantastic to experience the commitment and indeed the cross-party commitment to the strong, free and open democracy that we have. I think one would envy us if one could otherwise understand Danish and joined Parliamentary television in many other countries of the world, and it probably cannot be measured in crowns and ears what value it has. So thank you for that, too. As a new minister in this area of elections, I would like to start by stating that there must of course be room for new parties in the Folketing. But there should be no room for parties that cheat, parties that come in via the back entrance. That is why the important point to make here has been that we are not going to hit the many parties that follow the rules, and that is why I think it is a good arrangement with a yellow card and a red card for those parties that do not follow the rules. At the same time, it is crucial for me that there is political arm's length for this kind of decision, which is, of course, to exclude a party from running. It has therefore been crucial to land on that model here, where it is the independent electoral board that takes these decisions. Then there is also built-in, and I know that the Danish Parliament will be pleased about this, the assurance that the Minister will inform the Danish Parliament every time the Minister asks the electoral board to examine a party. In this way, the Folketing can then exercise control over the scheme, and I think that is quite central to me as well. Then several of you have said that the case does not start or end here. All parties in the then Parliament concluded the conciliation agreement in the spring on a new procedure for collecting electoral declarations, that is, the so-called portal model, and I am, of course, following that up as responsible minister. That is why a draft law on the new procedure will also be put forward in the forthcoming assembly of parliaments. The Ministry is also already well in the process of preparing what the new IT solution should look like. Then there were a few questions I would like to answer here, but I would also just like to stress that what is of questions, wishes, etc., we must have on the table, including in committee. This is a legislative proposal in which I think that, although we are busy, it is important that it is done thoroughly, of course. In relation to the question put by the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, I am very happy to forward something, but the question is about the payment of party subsidies, and this is not regulated in this law, but in the Party Support Act. I am being sent something about how it actually works, i.e. that party subsidies are paid out for one year at a time and that they are based on it and, moreover, that the receiving party informs it that it is going to be used for political work. And it is then defined in the Party Support Act what it is and what it is not. Then it is in connection with the request for the next annual payout that you can go in and look at what the money has actually been spent on. And it will depend on a concrete legal assessment by the Ministry of the specific case whether it falls within the framework set up by the Party Support Act. I think it goes too far to stand on the floor of the Parliament and go into it more closely in connection with this bill, because it is regulated elsewhere, but I would very much like to give the promise from the platform that I will be sent to the committee a detailed description of both the legal basis and how the work is in relation to it. So if there is anything additional to that discussion, please send it over. Then we'll take it too. The same applies in fact to what the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party is asking about the upcoming portal system. It is true that it is important that it is as safe from abuse as possible and that, for example, it is important. is the individual to enter with his NemID and identify himself. That is why, here in the draft law, we also mention the abuse of the NemID of others as one of the violations that is serious and will lead to the red card immediately. So part of the discussions that lie ahead of us is, of course, that we have to make the legislation on the new contractual system based on the agreement adopted by a unanimous then Parliament in the spring. So let's follow up on that, too. Then I just want to say that what I think is the strength of this model is, after all, the rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance who said that you didn't have the imagination to imagine that someone could cheat in this way... that with this system we get a system that applies in the new portal system and also, when there are some who are more inventive with the cheating than we honest people in the Folketing have the imagination to imagine. So it is really the strength that now we have a system that can also strike when our imagination has failed and we have not had the ability to develop ideas about the kind of cheating one will see in the future. Hopefully, this also means that we will not find ourselves in a similar situation. I think we're all very, very happy about that. Then I would like to overlook something in relation to time limits and all the work here. In other words, the Elections Board meets as necessary, and we can make that clear, but that in itself means that there will be a possibility of very short processing times. And it is clear that the more extensive and complex the possible cheating is, of course, the time needed to make a proper case presentation and procedure in the Election Board. I don't think anyone wants to compromise on that either. But let us just get something done in relation to how the specific workflow is going to be ■ that has been said following on from the Conservative rapporteur's objection. I have not noted any more specific questions, but I receive all the questions that may be in committee, large or small, and I look very much forward to further cooperation with all of you on our democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190828134026	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190828134029	Thank you, President. I just have to be sure that I have understood correctly: what the Minister is saying on the question of party subsidies is that it is not something that can be written into this legislation so that they can be deprived of them if they do not comply with the law. Is this how it should be understood, that an application under the Party Support Act should be addressed and sent to the Minister, or how and how?
ParlaMint-DK_20190828134056	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190828134057	Well, let me have a written answer, so I'm exactly on it. But it is certainly not this legislation that regulates party support. It's party support law. So let me ignore both what the rules really are today and what the current legal assessments are. On the basis of this, let us discuss whether there is a need to do something further here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190828134122	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190828134122-2	It's just to get it straight. We have already been able to see in connection with the collection that at least a party has said that the money should go for a charitable purpose, a fund or something like that. That is not the purpose of getting the party support funds. That is why it is important in this context that we also ensure that there is no abuse of the funds that are being sent out. Those parties that are decent and do everything they have to do and who live by the rules must, of course, have the support funds, but they should not be defrauded. But I understand that this is not something that the Minister can deal with now, because it is the rules on party funding that we are going to have to look at.
ParlaMint-DK_20190828134205	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190828134206	So let me be clear: there are already rules in the Party Support Act today on this if you do not use party support for what is defined in the Party Support Act, namely for political work. And then there is a deepening of it in the observations of the law that either it is deducted from the money that will be received in the coming year, or there might be a requirement that they be separately repaid to the Treasury. So it's not like we don't have those tools. This is just not something we regulate in this legislation. But let me again sign for it; let us at last clarify this better, because I am quite in agreement with the rapporteur that the same consideration applies here as in the legislative proposal we are discussing now, namely that of course we should not do anything that affects those who follow the rules and who are doing a great deal of work for our democracy. On the other hand, one should not be able to cheat or cheat on access to the Folketing, the ballot slip or party support funds.
ParlaMint-DK_20190828134300	No one else wishes to speak and we thank the Minister. As no one else wishes to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Social Affairs and Home Affairs Committee, and if any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190828134319	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting, apart from thanking everyone for today's work in the service of the people's government. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 10 September 2019 at 10:00. 13.00. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
