ParlaMint-DK_20190320130008	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Business (Rasmus Jarlov): Bill no. L 208 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Product Safety. Christian Langballe (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 147 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the withdrawal of Danish citizenship of Syrian warriors). Peter Kofod (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 148 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on aggravated penalties and financial penalties for bomb threats). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20190320130049	The first question is to the Minister of Justice by Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320130057	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320130100	Thank you, President. The question is: what is the Minister's position on the so-called Aarhus model, where returned Syrians come through a programme of entry • is the Minister not concerned that these Syrians pose a serious threat and security risk to Danish society, and what considerations has the government made in this regard?
ParlaMint-DK_20190320130123	Thank you. It's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320130124	Thank you for the question. I want to be quite clear: foreign fighters have, in my view, turned their backs on Denmark, and if they return to Denmark, they must first and foremost be punished for their crimes, if at all possible. This is also why the government, like the former V government, has strengthened criminal justice in this area, and this has happened in cooperation with not least the Danish People's Party. A number of foreign fighters who have returned to Denmark have already been sentenced, but prosecution cannot stand alone. After all, we must also prevent and reduce the risk that foreign fighters who have returned to Denmark will pose a security threat. The authorities have a great deal of focus on this, and the work is carried out among other things. under the auspices of the so-called Danish model, also previously known as the Aarhus model. The Danish model for preventing and combating extremism and radicalisation is built around close cooperation between the relevant authorities, including PET. In short, the model is that different types of interventions are adapted to different target groups: the more radicalised a person is, the more intrusive an effort. This also applies to returned foreign fighters. The authorities are simply using the opportunities to push the person in the right direction. We need to tackle these types with determination, and the fight against extremism and radicalisation is taking place both in prisons and outside prisons. But, of course, the authorities are constantly looking at whether the efforts can be improved, so that the work to counter the threat from among others. Repatriated foreign fighters and they are a variety of sizes that can be accommodated in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320130309	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320130311	When I raise the question, it is of course because it worries me that people who have fought down in the Islamic State come home to Denmark, that is, when you think about what crimes they have been involved in committing, or at least what terror they have joined in travelling down there. What I find quite striking, and what I have just achieved, is in fact that very, very few people regret that they have left. There is a Frenchman, David Thomson, who has made a book about the returnees. It's in both French and English, and I have the English version that shows that this is difficult. It's complicated because these people here are a constant threat. Bearing in mind that in the terrorist attack that took place at Bataclan, Paris, where 129 were killed, there were two returning Syrian warriors with a returnee who had returned from Yemen and had fought holy war down there, I think that is very worrying, and I would like to hear from the Minister of Justice whether the government shares this concern. It's not just these Syrians who have to go through a therapy program. There is also a society that must be protected, and they have just turned their backs on Denmark. So I would like to hear some thought in this direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320130502	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320130503	Thank you. As far as I remember, next week we will also have a consultative meeting or two consultations, I think on this subject where we might be able to get a little more in depth with it. 'Cause I totally agree. You can't have two opinions about this. Well, it's some people who have done monstrous things, and you go down and fight for a completely crazy cause. But when they come home, we have to deal with what we are doing, and there I agree that it is punishment only if it is possible at all. But then they are in society, and then we all have an interest in looking at: what are we doing to ensure that they are not radicalised, ensure that they do not commit terrorist acts in Denmark? This is something of the model's contribution, and I suppose we have a common interest in that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320130545	Here you go, sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320130546	Yeah, yeah, but my point is that so few people actually regret that they've gone down there. That must also mean that if such an Islamic conflict should arise somewhere, they will go again with this jihad wish. I know it's complicated, and I know there are some things in this, but I just think we should consider a way to protect the Danes from these ticking bombs. Because I really think they are, and that is why I am asking the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320130627	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320130628	Now the question is also about the attitude towards the Aarhus model, because there are two parts to this. After all, we are protecting the Danes best by the fact that, hopefully, those who go down there will stay there, and if we can do anything at all to ensure that they do not go home, it is in everyone's interest. As for those who then come home and they have come at different times and who are then here, if they cannot sit in prison or when they are finished in prison, we will have to protect the Danes to do everything we can to keep an eye on them and do everything we can to make them radicalized and turn away from what they have been a part of. I'm not saying that's easy, but we have to try that because the alternative is worse.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320130709	Thank you. Then there's a co-questioner. Here you go, Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320130714	Thank you. I would like to look at the Danes and the Danes' perception of what they see going on there.They see it from the outside, and we see it from the inside. For them, it's a reward behavior. The signal we are sending is: Go down and fight for a foreign state, Islamic State, come home to Denmark, get an education, and get a job afterwards. In fact, I would like to hear from the Minister: how does the Minister think that an unemployed Dane feels about this? A Dane who struggles to get a job but cannot enter the labour market sees a jihadist come back to Denmark and, moreover, get a gift with impunity. Those in this article are unpunished, they've never been punished. They get an education for free, and then they get a job. By the way, they will be released after the exit program has been completed, so we have no idea what they are doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320130806	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320130807	I think I'm gonna arrest the last one. In other words, there is an assessment of who we should be watching and who should not be watching, and I leave it to PET and good people to assess who we are watching and how. It is important for me to say that there is no special treatment in this way. I mean, we have tightened the rules together. This means that we can take the passport away from them and can also take citizenship away from them if that is an option. We can punish them really, really hard. They have then left at different times, and some of them have also left before we jointly had quite strict legislation in this area, and that is, of course, one challenge. The Aarhus model itself, like the model in general in Denmark, is about us doing something to ensure that they do not carry out an action on Danish soil or anywhere else in Europe or the rest of the world. That's what we're gonna be working for. So we have an interest in them becoming citizens who work in our society when they are here and now we cannot get rid of them after they have endured their punishment. Well, it's better that we try to get their necks off than we just let them run around, even if we don't like them, because we don't.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320130916	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320130917	We are, of course, in complete agreement with that. Yet it seems completely absurd that one somehow has this belief that it succeeds. I don't want to say anything evil about PET or anyone else, because I'm sure they're all doing their best and they're really good and all that. It is just often the case, when we hear of someone who has been radicalised and committed terror, that we all stand back in the dark, as to why the person who was such a well-integrated and well-trained person who spoke Danish and who had Danish friends nevertheless chose to go down and fight for the foreign state. I just miss something, because how do we even know that this is gonna work?
ParlaMint-DK_20190320130952	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320130953	There's gonna be an evaluation report on this very model, that is, work on it. It should come within a week, as far as I am aware. I have not yet had the opportunity to see it, but the preliminary reports I have from, for example. Special Branch, you can see a lot of good things in this. Because every time we can get somebody out of these thoughts, this way of acting, that's good. The problem is, then, if they keep going in some extreme mosques or something else, it's going to be a little hopeless. I mean, I can hardly imagine anything else but that we fully agree that this is a huge problem we have to work with. I just think that, as a society, we need to do what we can to get them away from it, since they are here, and now we cannot get rid of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320131042	Thank you. Here we go again, sir. Christian Langballe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320131047	Thank you. I think I will follow the same path, in the same ball street, when it turns out that this French journalist, David Thomson, says that it is remarkable how few success stories there are in radicalising Syrian warriors. For what is the problem with Syrian warriors is at least for some that they are well educated; that they are articulate; that they are rational on the surface in their approach and that they then have this extremely dark side, which is the modern Islamism it covers itself under eloquence and reason, right? How can we be sure that it actually also supports the Aarhus model, i.e. that the effort that is going on is actually bearing fruit, or what? Is it the case that one might well assume that this is such a frivolous project, which is actually just for the calming of people sitting out there and actually being a little worried?
ParlaMint-DK_20190320131208	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320131210	I do not think that we have any alternative, but I do not want to put any blues in my eyes. I do not think there is any guarantee that this will just succeed, I simply do not think there is. I don't know any human being working on preventive work that will give a guarantee that if we just do this program, we won't get any problems. But not doing anything is just not an option. So I think we should do something to keep them and keep them out of it, but we should not be naive, and that is why we should remember to keep an eye on what they are doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320131243	Thank you. The question is closed. Then I would like to say that Question No 1 is not a question. 4 and 5 (Question No 4) S 645 and S 646) by Mr Søren Egge Rasmussen (EL) to the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs are deleted by agreement between the Minister and the author. The questions will be answered on Wednesday, 27 March 2019. The next question is to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration by Martin Henriksen (DF).
ParlaMint-DK_20190320131309	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320131313	Thank you. What is the Minister's position on the head of Imam Ali Mosque in Copenhagen, Mohammad Khani, when it is stated in the article • The Muské of Jyllands-Posten on 12 March 2019 in the article • The Muské supports Iranian preacher of hatred, that the preacher apparently supports violence against spouse and children over 7 years of age, and that a wife must not reject her husband's desire for sex, and what will the Minister do in the specific case?
ParlaMint-DK_20190320131333	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320131335	As I have already said, I will do everything I can to keep a man like the Iranian Imam Mansour Leghaei out of Denmark. People like him who preach that it is forbidden for a wife to say no to sex to her husband have absolutely nothing to do in Denmark. I really have only contempt for such types as him, people who are Islamist fundamentalists to say it as it is and who insist on a medieval world view. That is why, in my view, it is absolutely vital that we protect our society from darkened forces such as him, and hence precisely those who try to undermine our democracy. They should not be allowed to break the fundamental freedoms on which Denmark is built. Therefore, I am also very pleased that the Danish People's Party, together with us through the preaching agreement, has introduced a list of hate preachers, the national penalty list, which prevents just exactly foreign preachers with rabid attitudes from even setting foot in Denmark. In fact, that law has just prevented the Iranian Imam in question from coming to Denmark. He cannot enter Denmark, and when he cannot enter Denmark, he will also not be able to enter via another European country, so it is not the case that he can cross the border or ride across the border without being discovered. He can't come to Denmark. But I would also like to say that, frankly, I resent the fact that the leader of the mosque out there does not disapprove of him. I just have to say, I don't get it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320131549	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320131550	Thank you, Minister. I fully agree that it was very good that we had this list together so that we could reject so-called hate preachers before they can enter Denmark. And you could say that this case also shows that it was the right thing to do and that it has an effect, and we also put people on this list at regular intervals so that they no longer have the opportunity to get into Denmark and spread their propaganda. It goes on to the person who has tried to enter Denmark and who can now reject the mosque, and that's a good thing, but what about the mosque? Does the Minister think that this should have any consequences for the mosque? Should the mosque just be allowed to go on like nothing happened? I think the Minister has said in the past that the Grimhøjmosque should be leveled, and perhaps we could transfer that to the Imam Ali Mosque. One is tempted to say: close it and tear down the buildings. Remove the religion that lies behind the mosque, their right to be a recognized religion in Denmark. Is there any of the things that the Minister will be prepared to do?
ParlaMint-DK_20190320131657	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320131658	So, I have to say that it is a little paradoxical that we have a religion that can be a recognised religion and still support an imam that is on our hate preacher list. Frankly, I think that is also paradoxical. As I said, I have only contempt for the mosque out there and the view they apparently have both on women, but the more generally on the freedoms on which our country is now built. I would also like to say that I simply do not know enough about the problem of the recognition of religions, and that is why I do not want to start to think about it today. It is a matter for the Ministry of Churches. However, I am aware that a new law was passed in this area at the end of 2017 and that it was by a broad majority in the Folketing. But unfortunately, as I have said, the recognition of religions is not in my area, but I can at least say what my view of the recognition of a preacher of hatred, such as the one we are dealing with here, is, and that is that it does not belong anywhere, and that certainly does not belong in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320131829	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320131830	It is true that a law has been passed on the territory of the Ministry of Churches, which, as a new thing, allows the approval of a recognized religion to be actually taken away from it, and the call from it must be to do so. But, as I said, that decision is over in the Ministry of Churches, and I understand that. But I would like to know whether the Minister and the government believe that this should have further consequences for the mosque in question. After all, it has been granted permission that the mosque in question could be performed.I believe that all parties in the Copenhagen citizens' representation, apart from the Danish People's Party, voted in favour of the local plan that allowed it to be built; it would have been good if other parties had had the same critical approach as the Danish People's Party at that time. But does the Minister believe that there should be other consequences for the mosque, other than that they can no longer invite the imam in question into Denmark to preach in the mosque, other than that one might deprive them of their recognition as a religion? Does the Minister think that this should have other consequences? For example, does the Minister think that it should be opened up to change the legislation so that the mosque in question can actually be closed, on the grounds that it is really subversive work that is going on in that place?
ParlaMint-DK_20190320131937	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320131938	I'm gonna start somewhere else, but I'm gonna get back to the question. I think that both Mr. Martin Henriksen and I have been weeping ears full of the fact that the list of hate preachers we adopted at the time was just a blow to the air. Fortunately, it was not, and I think we should all be happy about it, and I think we are. So there are at least some who need to review some of the statements they have made over time. Having said that, I would very much like to take a look at this, and that is what we are doing together at the moment... the cash flows that go to some of these mosques. It's a job that we take very seriously over in my ministry, and it's something that the Danish People's Party thought it should be said that it was also very keen to get in as part of the Finance Act, and I think that is quite appropriate, and that is what we are doing now. Because I actually think it's the cash flows that are somehow the root of all this, so it's even possible to run a mosque like this.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320132048	The last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320132050	Thank you. I fully agree that the hate preacher list has made a difference and that it would be very good if we could quickly finish drafting a new legislation which can prevent at least some foreign donations to build new mosques in Denmark. But now we have a mosque. It's there. If the current legislation were to allow the mosque in question to be closed, would the Minister think that we should do so? And if the Minister thinks so, should we not change the legislation so that it will actually be an opportunity? So, if you have built a mosque in Denmark, and if it can be demonstrated that there are links with foreign regimes such as the Iranian priesthood, or relations with people like that imam who came on the hate preacher list, etc., it should be some arguments that the state could use, for example, in a court case, and then, as an example, you can make legislation that allows a judge to go in and assess for and against and eventually arrive at the closure of the mosque. Could that be an option?
ParlaMint-DK_20190320132145	Here you go. The last answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320132147	I have said on several occasions that I would like to see mosques closed in Denmark, namely mosques driven from a world view that is just as far away from the Danish, as this case shows. The Grim High Mosque is another example of that. But the problem is that I think we should be honest about this, too, because where are these people going? Do we have more control over these than we do if they run a mosque from a backyard or a basement? For their opinions, we cannot be shut down in this way. That is why I believe that one of the best ways must be to get the donations under control, because there's something that makes these mosques run around, if you may say so, also in the day-to-day. But I wish there were mosques that were closed here in Denmark. The problem is just what the next step is and whether attitudes will still thrive. I can be nervous that they will.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320132251	Thank you. The question is closed. But there is a new question for the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration from Mr. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320132258	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320132300	Thank you for that, President. The question is: what is the attitude of the Minister and the Government towards the Advocate General of the European Court of Justice, who has spoken critically about the Danish family reunification rules vis-à-vis Turkish citizens, and does the government have a plan if the judgement of the European Court of Justice ends up going against Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20190320132316	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320132317	First of all, let us make it clear that it is important for the government that we in Denmark have as strict rules for family reunification as possible, and that is why the Danish case before the European Court of Justice on the previous attachment requirement for marriage has also been a priority for us in the government. We have, of course, done everything we could to influence the outcome of the matter, and I have also said a few things about this in a consultation in February. Last week the Advocate General, just as is being asked here, delivered his Opinion. And it is important to say that it is true that the Advocate-General makes a critical statement, it must be said whether the Danish attachment requirement is now abolished by marriage, and of course the government does not share the opinion of the Advocate-General. It is the government's view that the previous attachment requirement is in line with Denmark's EU legal obligations, and we have also argued in depth in favour of this, both in writing but also orally, during the handling of the case itself. The government is therefore also following the matter very closely now, in order to get it all worked out well, if I may say so, and has of course also read the Advocate General's Opinion with great interest. However, it is also important to bear in mind that this is simply a proposal for a decision and not a binding text which will be binding on the European Court of Justice. It is therefore not possible at this stage to know what the European Court of Justice will ultimately achieve. If the ruling of the European Court of Justice goes against us in whole or in part, it must, of course, be read and analysed so that we can have an overview as soon as possible of the significance of the decision. But right now, there is little else to do but to arm yourself with patience and wait for the ruling of the European Court of Justice before we begin to speculate on all possible consequences.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320132548	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320132549	Thank you. I could start by asking if there is any new information on when to expect a ruling from the European Court of Justice. It might be good to know if something new has come out. Then I would also like to ask about the government's considerations. After all, the government must have made some reflections on if this decision is against Denmark. Does the government have any scenarios with which it works? For example, is it prepared to adopt a new legislation which could, of course, make it possible to avoid granting a residence permit with retroactive effect, I was just saying if the decision ends up saying that we have refused some residence permits which we should not have refused in the opinion of the European Court of Justice, and then we should go back in time and perhaps even go to people in Turkey or elsewhere to ask them if they would still like to come to Denmark? One might have the idea that some of them might want to come to Denmark. Is the government working with some scenarios that will protect Denmark if the decision ends up opposing us?
ParlaMint-DK_20190320132651	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320132653	First of all, it is not the case that we have a date, but we expect at least a few months to pass before the European Court of Justice gives its judgment. However, as I said, there is no date. On the other hand, as I said, we do not believe that this is a correct opinion of the Advocate General. That is why I do not think it makes any sense at the moment to start wondering what the consequences of this will be. That is why I would say that what makes the best sense now is to arm yourself with a little patience, and then, of course, I expect them to pass judgment in a few months' time, and then we will have to read through that judgment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320132747	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320132748	Thank you. It is, of course, a good thing that the government is doing some thinking, at least I hope so. Because you have to be prepared for the worst. So I really hope that the government will take some thought. I would like to ask whether the Minister thinks that the whole situation we are in now is appropriate. We have in here a majority in the Folketing which has adopted some rules. At that time it was the then bourgeois government and the Danish People's Party that adopted some rules in the area of family reunification, and now it is actually quite a broad majority that is behind the current family reunification rules. Is it appropriate, in the Minister's view, for a majority in the Folketing to adopt something, for us to run with the rules and our authorities to administer according to those rules, and for an international body to come and actually tell us that what we have democratically adopted with consultations and everything else, we should just roll back? Is that appropriate? Is it democratic, in the view of the Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20190320132843	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320132844	In any case, I can say that when we adopt things here in the Folketing, it is because we believe that it can be kept within the international obligations which we ourselves, we must say, have signed up to want to comply with. Then there are some cases that are sometimes tried, and sometimes we are also opposed. But to override the conventions that we ourselves signed and simply say that we will not comply with them, I do not think that this is an appropriate way of attacking them.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320132919	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320132920	But the then bourgeois government and, incidentally, the present bourgeois government are of the opinion that we are within the conventions. That's the opinion. Then someone can come from outside and say that we need to change the rules and perhaps grant residence permits to those who have previously been refused a residence permit under the applicable Danish rules, which changing governments have assessed were within the conventions. In the view of the Minister, is this appropriate? Is it democratic in the Minister's view? Is it not deeply, deeply problematic that in here, on behalf of the Danes, we are trying to adopt some legislation, so that we ourselves are masters of who we let into our country, and that there may then come some outside, in this case the EU, and say: You should not even in Denmark be masters of who you let into your country? In the view of the Minister, is this not deeply worrying and deeply problematic and should not be dealt with in some way, for example, by extending the existing legal reservation or amending the agreement reached by the Community with Turkey at that time, which is, of course, part of the reason why we are facing the problems?
ParlaMint-DK_20190320133021	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320133022	But let us just put on some ice and see what is really going to happen in a few months' time when the verdict is finally delivered. Having said that, we have gone with open eyes, you might say, into European cooperation too, but that is why we do not always believe that appropriate judgments are being handed down. But we went into it with our eyes open at the time. The fact that we then believe that we stay within the framework is what is now being tested at the European Court of Justice, and I find it difficult to see that it should be undemocratic. But that is why you can have some things that you sometimes do not entirely agree with. On the proposal put forward by the Advocate General, I can at least say that the government does not agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320133116	Thank you. Then the next question (pm. No. S 638) to the Minister for Education from Mrs Marie Krarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320133130	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320133133	In the light of the events at the Ørestad Gymnasium at the beginning of March, does the Minister not believe that all educational establishments should be required to ban political demonstrations in the school area and during school hours?
ParlaMint-DK_20190320133148	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320133149	In the government, we do not believe that a ban is the right way to go. It is the Board of Directors of each institution which, on the recommendation of the head of the institution, decides on activities at the school. It is therefore up to local decision-making to what extent and with which participants, where appropriate in connection with the training, must carry out political events in the field of the school in accordance with the school's rules of study and order. The Code of Social Engagement Youth Organisations' access to youth education, made by DUF, the Rectoral Association of the Gymnasium, the Danish Business Schools and the Ministry of Education, stresses that youth organisations should have the opportunity to meet with pupils and students at the educational place during the school day and that the institution should provide local or local facilities. The management therefore has the right to indicate where and when any political activities may take place. We must remember that our youth education institutions also contribute to, and must contribute to, the democratic formation of young people. This is, for example, the case. was also reflected in the objective clause of the High School Act, of which among other things: students must obtain the conditions for active participation in a democratic society and an understanding of the possibilities for individually and jointly contributing to development and change. In the autumn, I set up the Council for Democratic Education, which is debating situations that could challenge the democratically-forming learning environment, so that it can be elucidated analytically and without prejudice. The Council must provide a technical and position-based basis for policy initiatives and concrete action on the institutions. In conclusion, we must not forget that we in Denmark attach great importance to educating students for independence in thought and speech. The education of a high school and the daily life of the institution as a whole are, according to the law of secondary education, to be based on freedom of spirit, equality and democracy. This means that high schools must not seek to influence students towards certain views of life or political perceptions. In other words, there must be no unilateral influence on the attitude of the pupils.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320133355	Thank you. I have to say that, unfortunately, the clock does not work, so when I start to get up that way, it is because the speaking time is about to end. Here you go. It's two minutes now.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320133406	I was so furious when I saw these TV clips about how the high school students were skating out at Ørestad Gymnasium and preventing a sensible meeting from taking place, and I was just as furious that the management didn't seem to do anything. This led me to wonder whether it was not time for the Minister of Education to send a shepherd letter around the country's high schools and, for that matter, also public schools and other educational institutions that political demonstrations should be left out of school, because I do not recognise what the Minister of Education is saying here that political demonstrations are the same as political meetings. Political discussions can easily be held, and that is also what the Minister for Education had been invited to do. I myself, as a social science teacher, have arranged a lot of political debate meetings at a high school, which take place in civilised forms, using one's knowledge and rationality to exchange arguments and everyone becomes wiser and gets democratically formed and becomes able to put a cross when they are 18 years old and can vote. But political demonstrations are quite different. It's like you're jumping and yelling buh and having big inscriptions and whatever else it is. It's something you can do outside of school. This is something that can be done at the City Hall Square or at Christiansborg Palace Square, because what it leads to is that students are set up against each other, and this leads to intense peer pressure, and it can also lead to politically minded teachers being able to use their students as spearheads in a political battle. So that's why I think we have to make a distinction between these different things. Political meetings in order can easily take place, and especially in an election campaign that we are now entering, but political demonstrations I think it would be very, very wise to urge the country's educational establishments to refrain from.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320133613	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320133615	I think the rapporteur is talking about an important distinction here, and it is clear that educational establishments must be able to receive both members of the Folketing, ministers and others with whom they have made an agreement and who come and hold a meeting at all times. That part must be possible. It should be the job of an educational establishment to be able to conduct a democratic conversation at the place of education. Of course, there should be no doubt about that. So we are in complete agreement on that part. We also agree that there is a difference between whether something is a demonstration or a political meeting and, finally, we also agree that teachers must of course not use the pupils as means. That is also what I said at the end of my speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320133712	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320133713	Yes, and that is where I believe we have a challenge. Because we know that our teachers are to the left of the middle and that there can be no escape there. Most people know this from their children's stories about their schooling, and most teachers know it from the teacher's room. That is why, of course, it is also a question of how much freedom of spirit is really in our schools in some cases, and one can of course influence the pupils in more subtle ways, such as. by agreeing not to give them any absence if they participate in political demonstrations, or to help them organise transport or come to political demonstrations. I also believe that this is an area which could be considered as Minister of Education, in other words, by not having any political demonstrations, as well as saying that there must be so much freedom of spirit, that there should also be room for other opinions and that there should be no specific opinions or demonstrations outside the school area which must be given priority and supported in any way.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320133828	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320133829	Thank you. As I said at the outset, we do not have any immediate plans for a ban on the part of the government. But it is of course important to discuss what is appropriate, also in order to promote the democratic debate in which the pupils are expected to enter and, as I just said, it is very, very important that any school or youth education • any place of education • can arrange meetings, including with people with whom they may disagree very much. Because if you cannot do that, then the democratic conversation, which is about discussing disagreements, will be stopped. That is what democracy is all about. So we agree that should be possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320133914	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320133915	Democratic formation is something we talk a lot about, and it is therefore only important to remember that democratic formation is also to have knowledge of politics and ideologies and the political system etc., and that is not achieved by walking around shouting boh or painting stones at Christiansborg Palace Square with ugly paint. It is not democratic formation in itself. So I would say that it is wrong to allow children to skip education where they can get democratic education, to stand and jump and shout buh and perhaps become more and more primitive and to be subjected to peer pressure which should not exist in an educational institution or which should certainly not be allowed to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320134005	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320134006	However, I would like to say again that it is clear from the legal basis, both for upper secondary education and for primary schools, in other words the texts attached to the law, that pupils must of course not be used as funds for some political project. After all, you have to introduce the students to different views and in this way, as I said, you must not push the students to have a certain attitude.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320134039	Thank you. That concludes the question. The next question is to the Minister for Education by Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320134047	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320134050	Thank you. Does the Minister agree that vuc is an important educational offer which must be maintained and widely anchored throughout the country?
ParlaMint-DK_20190320134101	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320134102	Thank you for the floor and thank you for the question of vuc. I would like to make it clear that it is important for me that we in Denmark have a wide and strong range of high-quality education and that all communities in the city and on land must have access to education within a reasonable distance. At the same time, I am concerned that we as a society have a well-functioning adult and continuing education system. The development facing the vuc sector must include: is seen in the light of the fgu agreement, which a very broad majority in the Folketing is behind. It is important for me to stress that all the parties of the Folketing signed the Fgu agreement and were aware that this would have consequences for the Veu centres in rural areas. It is also important for me to stress that it is a general condition for our educational institutions, also for the vuc's, that the admission of students is dependent on the economic situation in society. But there is no doubt that an important educational policy task will be undertaken. Adults can improve their skills through different training courses. In the future, we also urgently need adults to be able to continuously train and that upgrading is something that we have a natural focus on. In conclusion, I should like to mention that the government will carry out a review of the single trade system, i.e.: avu and hf single subjects. This inspection is planned to be completed in autumn 2019. Against this background, we need to look at how we can organise general adult education in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320134226	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320134227	Thank you for your answer. Most of it just wasn't about what I asked. What I am asking is whether the Minister thinks that we should have vuc's throughout the country, and not excuse why we should not have vuc's throughout the country. The reason I ask is that vucs appeal to young people who have not gone directly through the education system. They appeal to those who have grown up and find that competence-giving training is therefore necessary at the level of the 9th grade or higher level. That is why it is incredibly important that they are located throughout the country, close to where the citizens live, and that is why I am asking the question here. Because I am genuinely concerned about the many vucs that are going to close in the near future, and that is what I would like the Minister to do. Eight vucs just close here in the spring. Does the Minister not think that it is important that we do something to ensure that these training services are throughout the country?
ParlaMint-DK_20190320134323	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320134324	The rapporteur is very welcome to ask and also to worry. We in the government are concerned at least as much about young adults and adults who need a wide range of training opportunities. This is among other things. That is why we have made a fgu agreement, also with the Social Democratic Party. But sometimes political memory is short. It is clear that when agreements are concluded, which also have an impact on other parts of the sector, there is no point in not remembering them afterwards or not taking responsibility for what you have precisely done, which will be an excellent new preparatory initial training for a lot of young adults who need exactly that. So we fully agree that there must be a wide range of education throughout the country for all the different groups of people, but I miss the fact that social democracy sees things in their entirety and may even have a rapporteur in the fgu area. That would be awesome.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320134422	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320134423	Again, that's just not what I'm asking. I think everyone agrees that it is excellent for us to step up our efforts towards young people, but here we are talking about adults who have not started an education when they were under 25 years of age and who therefore need to be trained. There is now a significant increase in the amount of training available. Does the Minister not think that this is a problem and that we should do something when we look at what target groups are, which in future will therefore not be in danger of receiving training, because far more vuc's than anticipated in the fgu negotiations are closing in the coming years? Up to a quarter of the tenders in Denmark close over the coming years unless political action is taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320134506	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320134507	Yes, I think we can do much better in the area of adult and continuing training. I think we can be much more ambitious than we are today. I think we need to look much more at how to modernise and optimise our adult and continuing education system, and that should be done. In isolation, we are setting in motion a review of the areas I mentioned. You should do that. You have to look at what we have to build something new. But it is clear that the adult and continuing education system needs to be optimised and even more needs to be done, but I do miss the fact that social democracy sees things as a whole and sees it from the public's point of view and not just from a specific point of view where it has been chosen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320134549	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320134550	We see it from the very point of view of the citizens. When it comes to the fact that education institutions are being significantly extended, it is precisely the citizens who are getting into trouble, and for that matter society too, because these citizens are not going to take an education. What I'm asking for isn't that we build something new. We have an excellent structure with the vuc structure, but what I am calling for is that we ensure that there are vucs in all parts of Denmark, and that is what I am asking the Minister to do. That is why my question is also: does the Minister agree that vuc is an important educational offer which must be maintained and widely anchored throughout the country?
ParlaMint-DK_20190320134625	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320134626	I fully agree that there must be high-quality education for all citizens in all parts of the country, whether young or old. Perhaps I miss the fact that the Social Democrats see it from the public's point of view and ask: what is it that we want to build for them? We have together done a preparatory initial training. We did so with open eyes, and the Social Democrats sat at the table. They knew that it would also mean that the vuc's would lose a little bit of their turnover. It was quite clear in the papers that this would be the case. On the other hand, there could be a preparatory initial training for young people, which would mean that many more people would be able to move on to youth education.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320134709	Thank you! That concludes the question. Thank you. The next question is also to the Minister for Education, and that is from Mrs Annette Lind, the Social Democrat.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320134716	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320134719	Thank you for that, President. Does the Minister agree that the government's re-priority contribution means that the economy of the country's assets is under pressure, such as: The Association of Teachers of the High School and the Joint Council of the Rural Council have warned about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20190320134734	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320134735	Thank you for the question. I fully recognise that the re-prioritisation contribution places great demands on the institutions and puts economic pressure on them. By their very nature, it creates economic pressure to ask them to streamline their efficiency by 2%. annual. However, I think it is reasonable to demand that the institutions should make their operation more efficient, even though it is difficult. The aim of the re-priority contribution is for citizens' money to be spent as accurately as possible in the public sector. And this requires that vuc's, like other public sector institutions, focus on how to achieve their tasks in the best way possible. Vucs are no worse than other educational institutions in order to achieve efficiency. In 2016 and 2017, i.e. in the first two years after the re-priority contribution was introduced, the vuc sector had a total surplus of approx. 170 million kr. At the same time, the average profit of the Vuc in 2017 was 3.1 per cent. In addition, the sector has also benefited from a sharp increase in activity in general adult education over the last 10 years. However, it is hard to make operations more efficient on a vuc, and this requires planning and prioritising. The Government is fully aware that the re-prioritisation contribution on education cannot continue forever and therefore the re-prioritisation contribution in its current form expires at the end of 2021. From 2022, the proceeds from the re-prioritisation contribution in the field of education are placed in a reserve. The resources in the reserve must go to initiatives in the field of education. No later than the draft budget for 2022, a decision shall be taken on how the funds are actually implemented. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320134917	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320134918	In the social democracy we are very aware that we must have vuc's all over the country. We want to maintain and have a broad anchored vuc all over the country. The Minister says that you must be able to make your operations more efficient, but it is difficult to do so in the vuc area. Now it is the case that there are a great many vucs that are impoverished, and there are also many that are not sustainable. My own newspaper recently stated that the vuc are struggling to preserve two departments in northwest Jutland. And it is so that at VUC Holstebro, Lemvig, Struer 13 million have been lost. kr. in the last few years, which amounts to a quarter of the budget. An amount of 6.5 million. kr. was due to the re-prioritisation contribution. What will the Minister do to maintain, for example? The department in Struer? And is it even the Minister's opinion that there should be vuc's all over the country?
ParlaMint-DK_20190320135008	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320135009	The fact that many vucs have had to re-prioritize is therefore not solely due to the re-prioritization contribution. This is also largely due to the decisions we have taken together with the Social Democratic Party to create a preparatory initial training. Preparatory initial training has a much better intention than it is today to tackle young people who do not enter into youth education in the first few weeks, and I am very pleased about that. But both the Social Democrats and the government, when we concluded the agreement, were aware that this would mean a reduction in vuc's turnover, which has otherwise been increasing, it has to be said, very increasing, over the last ten years.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320135048	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320135049	I am very pleased with the agreement we made on the creation of the fucking god, but now it is the re-priority contribution that I am asking about. We can easily see that some of the expenditure can be reduced because we have set up the fucking thing, because those under 25 years of age may no longer have to go to vuc. But that's not what this is about. This is about whether we want to maintain the vuc, at least for those who are over 25 years of age, because that is what this is all about. It's not about the fucking thing, because it hasn't even come into force yet. It is not, in fact, until 1 August that it comes into force, so it should not have any significance in this respect. Does the Minister understand that it is very, very difficult to get rectors to go out and say that their schools are not sustainable because, in relation to the re-priority contribution, they are afraid of losing even more pupils on that basis?
ParlaMint-DK_20190320135143	It may be difficult to judge how long time has elapsed, because I am well aware that the lamp is unfortunately not working. Annette Lind Okay, I'll make it shorter. Thank you). That's good. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320135149	Thank you. I'm not saying it's easy to streamline. Everyone who has had a management task in either the private or the public sector knows how difficult it can be to make it more efficient, but they also know that if you are a manager for a sufficient period of time, you will find that this is never the case regardless of whether it is a public or a private organisation. Sometimes you have to be more efficient, and that is a difficult task. The Fgu is a very, very large part of the reality in which the Vuc operates, but so is employment. We can see that many people in the target group are in employment, and that is a good thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320135228	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320135229	Well, of course it's certainly that way, but that's not what I'm asking. What I am asking is whether in the future there will also be vucs all over the country for those who are over 25 years old. I ask whether the economy that exists is sufficient when 2% is added year after year. Upstairs. Everyone would have difficulty with a budget where one could see: this year it is 6%, next year it is 8%, the year after it is 10%. and then 12%. It's so hard for these vucs. What will the Minister do to maintain vuc's throughout the country if that is what she wants?
ParlaMint-DK_20190320135304	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320135305	I'm looking at the vuc's overall framework conditions. The only thing that makes sense if we are to make sustainable offers is to look at the overall framework conditions. And there are various elements of which the re-priority contribution is part of what the fgu agreement is a very, very important part of it, and then there is employment, which is, of course, the welcome part of it, because at some times there is greater demand for adult and further training than there is in other periods. So there is no reason to talk it down by saying that there are many people in the target group who are currently in employment and who may, at a later stage, go in and take courses in the vuc system.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320135348	It's over. Thank you. The next question is by Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten, and it is for the Minister of Transport, Building and Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320135358	Go ahead and read.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320135401	Thank you for that, President. The question is: can the Minister confirm that the Mariager bypass at 377 million? kr. primarily a part of the Government and Dansk Folkespartsen •Address about a coherent Denmark • Investment plan 2030 • Due to wishes from the Danish People's Party and not due to road safety or congestion or other traffic considerations?
ParlaMint-DK_20190320135425	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320135426	Thank you for the question. The short answer is no. In the negotiations on the investment plan 2030, it was a wish of the Danish People's Party to complete the project on a bypass at Mariager. When you help to create a majority for an agreement, you will also have some of your wishes fulfilled, as has happened in this case. I cannot confirm that transport considerations did not play a part in the decision. In the 2013 preliminary study, on the basis of an overall estimate, the Road Directorate estimated that an bypass at Mariager to Assens would cost between 200 and 400 million. kr. and have an internal interest rate of between 2% and 4%. The Road Directorate noted in this respect that the extension to Assens had a socio-economic advantage as it not only affects the relatively low volume of traffic over Mariager Torv but can also operate traffic on route 555 between Hobro and Hadsund. An estimated socioeconomic rate of up to 4%. indicates that there are traffic gains by building the bypass.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320135531	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320135532	Thank you. Now it is no secret that when the government makes agreements on transport policy investments with the Danish People's Party, we are quite concerned about what accidents they can do together. Therefore, it was also with some excitement that we anticipated the agreement reached by the government and the Danish People's Party. However, it was a surprise that the Mariager bypass was one of the three priority areas in North Jutland to invest in traffic policy. It was because we have many things we would like to invest in North Jutland, for example. an upgrade of the rail network north of Aalborg, which can relieve the North Jutland road network of large quantities of goods today being transported by truck rather than by rail. It is therefore a little interesting to hear what the justification was for the fact that it was precisely the bypass of Mariager which was part of it. In this regard, the Minister of Transport himself mentioned the Vejdirektoratet's statement back from 2013. I would therefore like to know whether the Minister of Transport agrees with what is being concluded in the Road Directorate's analysis, namely that, on the basis of the report, it is concluded that there are no problems on route 555 with neither capacity nor road safety. The local business community argues that a bypass south of Mariager will not affect business development or transport. Route 555 on the route through Mariager, which connects Hobro and Hadsund, has been upgraded for approx. Ten years ago and is not significantly relieved by a bypass as proposed, which is also reflected in the fact that few cars will use the bypass. Does the Minister agree with the Road Directorate's conclusion?
ParlaMint-DK_20190320135711	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320135712	It is of course no secret that Enhedslisten fundamentally disagrees with the thinking behind the investment plan that we have made and that Enhedslisten will always downgrade roads with individual transport in favour of rails with public transport. This follows from the fact that Enhedslisten is a collectivist party that wants everything to be collective. As far as I understand Enhedslisten's programme of principles, there should in fact be virtually nothing private. So it's no secret. Around the Mariager bypass, I fully agree with the conclusion reached by the Road Directorate that it is of great use to get a faster route on the route, which people can use, so that they can come forward more quickly if they are not going to Mariager city and thus save time in traffic. That is why we have an internal rate of interest of between 2% and 4%, depending on how much the road costs, and also with the utility value, that much traffic, including heavy traffic, does not have to travel within Mariager.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320135809	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320135811	Well, there is no reason why the Minister should be so rhetorical that it is so high up in the liberal tree that it is difficult to climb down again. This is just a question of how best to use the money now available for transport investment; I assume that both the government and the Danish People's Party have also had these considerations before deciding that taxpayers' money should be invested in transport investments. Therefore, it is a little interesting to hear what is actually the reason why it is precisely the bypass of Mariager, because there can be a lot of traffic investment around which you could spend money on. So I just want to know if it really is the Minister's opinion with the conclusions of the Road Directorate's report that the most sensible place to make traffic investment in North Jutland is a bypass at Mariager, which no one really wants.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320135904	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320135905	If, for example, you're gonna have to... compares with Enhedslisten's visions for rail investments north of Aalborg, and let us take the project by electrifying the rails, which are part of the Togsfonden DK's plans, which Enhedslisten is part of, then you will see that it has a negative return on society. There's a negative social return to it. So it is quite clear that measured by common calculation methods, which I do not know if Enhedslisten uses, the bypass at Mariager is a clearly better project, i.e. if that's what you measure on the pure traffic effect than e.g. Enhedslisten's plans to electrify the tracks north of Aalborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320135941	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320135943	In other words, I have to say to the Minister for Transport that if it is the case that you want to remove heavy traffic from the roads and thus relieve the burden, for example. The beautiful cobbled roads in Mariager move significantly more heavy traffic by moving goods on rails, which can be done by e.g. to upgrade the railway between Hirtshals and Aalborg, so that the goods from Hirtshals port could be moved on rails rather than having to load the road network. So, if we are to look at it from that point of view and also from the point of view of climate considerations, I think that upgrading the road network would be much better. But I have to ask the Minister again. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). Yeah. I have to ask the Minister whether, on the basis of the Vejdirektoratet's conclusion, it really is the Minister's view that the best place to make traffic investment in North Jutland is at Mariager.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320140033	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320140035	If Enhedslisten plans to move heavy traffic through Mariager through rail investment, it requires Enhedslisten to develop a policy of railway rail construction on the route through Mariager to Hadsund. It is certainly if it is Enhedslisten's policy that it has a very, very bad return for society, in terms of how much value it creates for society, in terms of how much it costs. It would be a very hopeless policy to have. So I certainly hope that Enhedslisten has not, after all. However, the projects promoted by Enhedslisten on rails north of Aalborg have a negative social return, whereas Mariager bypass has a positive social return of between 2 and 4%.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320140121	Thank you. The question is closed. Then we move on to the next question, and it is also to the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing of Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320140129	Go ahead and read.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320140131	We stay a little in the same region, both geographically and politically: from the Minister's liberal desire to reduce government spending, how will the Minister explain that the government wants to spend 377 million? kr. to a bypass solely in order to satisfy its parliamentary basis?
ParlaMint-DK_20190320140151	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320140152	This is, of course, partly a re-submission of the question that I have already been given, so I can just add this: Investment plan 2030 provides a solid foundation for the infrastructure development of the years to come, and hence the Danish economy, and I, as a liberal politician, can support that one hundred percent.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320140211	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320140213	Now the reason for the question is that the Minister himself has pointed out several times in interviews that a very important reason why the Mariager bypass was being invested in was that it was a condition for obtaining a majority for the investment plan, namely that it was a condition for the Danish People's Party to be included in the plan, and that is not a transport policy consideration. It is, of course, a complete political consideration instead, and that is why I am a little puzzled about it. For now, in addition to representing the government, the Minister also represents a liberal party, and the Liberal Alliance usually boasts of being a party to the business community, and there it has been quite clear that the business community has not sought this bypass. On the contrary, you have said that it does not actually make any sense to build this road when you hear the Mariager Trade Stands Association. That is why I should just like to know whether it is a good liberal way of dealing with taxpayers' money that this is the way to go, depending on where the government's parliamentary basis is based, and whether the Minister thinks that it is a good liberal policy to spend money on a road section which, according to industry itself, does not make sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320140335	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320140336	It is not the Liberal Alliance that says that we are the business side. It is such a thing as Socialists like Enhedslisten's MPs say that the Liberal Alliance is just a party for business. We regard ourselves as a party to the citizens, and some of the citizens own businesses, and others work for companies, and we are a party to them all. It is absolutely right that when you sit around a table and have to negotiate an agreement home, it is so that the parties sitting around the table, which are a prerequisite for the majority of the agreement, have some of their policies implemented. It's just a statement of what it's like in politics.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320140417	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320140418	But is it to be understood that when the Liberal Alliance and the government make agreements, it is all according to any wish that there may be on a parliamentary basis that such an agreement be reached? Because then it could be some very foolish agreements, which of course we sometimes think it is • but it might be nice enough that there was a professional support for it and that this was not the expression of what each of us had to make of various wishes, which one could make as a condition for voting in favour. Does the government not base its policy on concrete political and professional considerations, more than it does on what is opportune in order to get an agreement through?
ParlaMint-DK_20190320140453	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320140454	Both the government and the Liberal Alliance make only one kind of agreement, and it is they who are pulling society in a better direction. Then you can sometimes see that in an agreement there is a very big point that draws society very much in a good direction, while there is a small point that does not pull so much or maybe even is just a step in the wrong direction. But if the agreement as a whole pulls society in a better direction, then the Liberal Alliance is in, and the government is in. This investment plan, which we have agreed with the Danish People's Party, is a really, really good agreement that will solve many traffic problems in Denmark in the coming years and is filled with projects that have a positive and high return for society in the form of a utility value. That's why we're here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320140543	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320140544	With regard to a great value: that is not what is so expressed that the Mariager bypass has, in other words, in the fact that the trade union does not demand it, in that the local business community does not demand it and in that the companies that live around Mariager do not indicate that there is a lack of this road. There are no road safety reasons why it should be built, there are no congestion problems either, and therefore I am somewhat surprised. I could actually imagine that the Liberal Alliance, like us, also takes the view that when taxpayers' money is spent, there must be some professional support for it rather than just a political and polemical one.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320140631	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320140632	I think it's pretty amazing. I understand that, sir. Peder Hvelplund is elected in North Jutland, and Mr. Peder Hvelplund doesn't even realize that the city council in the municipality is looking for this bypass. Sir. Peder Hvelplund relies on the fact that there are some traders, some shops that do not want it because they want people in, and Mr. Peder Hvelplund doesn't even know that the political majority of the city council wants this bypass. I think that is a shocking lack of knowledge when Mr. Peder Hvelplund would like to stand here in Parliament and pretend that he cares about the subject. In Copenhagen, traders and shops would also prefer to have as much traffic as possible. Nevertheless, Enhedslisten believes that cars should be banned in Copenhagen. Does this mean that Enhedslisten has a different policy for Copenhagen than one has in Mariager?
ParlaMint-DK_20190320140718	Thank you. The question is closed now. The last question is to the Minister for Business by Mrs Merete Dea Larsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320140728	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320140731	Thank you. Will the Minister explain why it is so difficult to implement the part of the Finance Act in which a committee is to be set up to clarify the problems and solutions for the houseowners affected by drought, and therefore why the Minister has neither called rapporteurs nor set up the committee yet?
ParlaMint-DK_20190320140748	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320140749	It is not my view that it is very difficult to implement that part of the Finance Act. In January, I wrote to Mrs Merete Dea Larsen that it was planned to set up the working group in March, and it is still expected that the working group can be set up in March, so it is on the right track. I have just approved the mandate of the working group, and I have also sent it to Mrs Merete Dea Larsen in order to get the comments of the Danish People's Party on the mandate, and I look forward to the parties behind the Finance Act, i.e.. the government and the Danish People's Party, can reach the goal of the final formulation of the mandate. Once it is in place, the working group will be set up and can begin its work, and then it is planned that the working group will be able to report its findings by the end of the year at the latest, and then we will be able to take a political decision on what we are going to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320140847	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320140849	When I ask, it is because I have asked in both December, January and February, and I have asked in anticipation that the Danish People's Party will be consulted along the way in the design of this commission. After all, we believe that there are some aspects missing from this Commission which I received on Monday. This question to the Minister was submitted last week, so we have had a little time to answer it, because we are a little short of a point about securing the citizens affected by this severe drought that they were experiencing last summer, plus that what the Minister is describing is at the end of the year that can be reported. If the same thing happens this summer, there will be even more people who will be affected by these terrible events. Will the Minister be open to us getting a point into the terms of reference which concerns those who have already been affected?
ParlaMint-DK_20190320140936	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320140938	There's nothing wrong with us putting into the mission. That does not mean that we can make a political decision on it now. It is just a working group that has to examine the possibilities, but we can easily write something into the terms of reference. Unfortunately, you can say that there is not so much evidence of drought so far in 2019, but it is of course true that it can happen this year too, although last year's weather conditions were quite exceptional. I am sorry if the Danish People's Party has not felt sufficiently involved, but it is on its way, and I look forward to receiving the comments of the Danish People's Party, including the mandate and the work of the working group.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320141018	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320141020	I'm really glad. I am glad if we can then also involve those affected and examine what we can do for them, because there are therefore some citizens who are in a quite hopeless situation where they cannot afford to repair their houses for up to 1 million. kr., because their houses are only about 1 million. kr. Worth it. So they're in a really hopeless situation right now. I am glad to hear that the Minister is open to looking at what we can do for those who are affected. In addition, I also hope that the parties involved in this working group can also include in the terms of reference those who can actually represent the citizens concerned. I think that the shortcomings in the Commission's immediate presentation. But I will look forward to being included, and then I promise I will work quickly so that we can get the working group up and running as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320141103	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320141104	That sounds great. I look forward to receiving comments.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320141110	Thank you. The question is closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190320141113	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 26 March 2019 at 6 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
