ParlaMint-DK_20190502100012	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Dorthe Ullemose (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 154 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution amending the Consumer Agreement Act). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Education Committee has presented a report on the New Start. 12). The report will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502100049	The item listed as No. 8 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502100102	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502100126	The debate is primarily about the proposed amendment. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendment is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502100147	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 by Rasmus Prehn (S). The vote is over. In favour of 30 (S and SF), against 68 (DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502100219	The negotiations then concern the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the bill? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502100227	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 100 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502100301	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502100317	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 98 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502100347	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502100411	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 100 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502100444	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502100506	I would like the Minister to be present when the bill is voted on. The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. 101 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502100539	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502100559	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 98 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502100644	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502100702	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 82 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), against 17 (EL, ALT and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502100731	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502100743	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 91 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions 9 (EL). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502100813	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502100839	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 22 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 77 votes (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502100917	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502100938	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 17 votes (EL, ALT and RV), 80 abstentions (S, DF, V, LA, SF and KF). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502101011	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Yes, here you go, Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502101027	Today we are dealing with a very important piece of legislation: the legislative proposal on what to do with clean air in our cities. One might say that it is a good thing that something is finally happening in this area, that the requirements of the environmental zones are being tightened up. It's about time. In the last few years, new studies have emerged which show that air pollution is much more harmful than we thought. In fact, up to 6,000 people die a year in Denmark as a result of air pollution 6,000 people! We would not, of course, accept the fact that in this way we had a killer and something that causes cancer that causes respiratory diseases, among other things. asthma, and which impairs people's quality of life. The bill that we have here, which is important, is based on old figures. The bill is simply based on the wrong figures. It is based on figures which count on half as high a damage as is the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502101131	There are no more votes and, of course, you can leave the Chamber, but since a rapporteur's speech is under way, please be quiet when you do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502101143	I can understand if you were completely frightened back when you suddenly understood what we were talking about here, so 6,000 deaths in Denmark a year. And then the Minister comes with an answer to the Folketing, answer no. 12, in connection with the legal process, where he acknowledges that new figures from DCE at Aarhus University have just arrived at the Danish Environmental Protection Agency, which says that the prices associated with exposure to air pollution from road transport have more than doubled. At the same time, when you ask him whether it makes any impression on him that he thinks he has put forward a balanced bill. So let's think about this balance right over here. Over here we have people's health, their quality of life, whether you are ill, if you have asthma, if you have cardiovascular diseases, if you die too soon, and over here we have those who own vans, trucks and the most ancient passenger cars. It seems that a balanced legislative proposal has been put forward, but then in the legislative process it is given figures that show that pollution is twice as high as it was thought. Then they say: we still think that it balances, I am still referring to the same answer, because it is still the same price for the owners of vans and trucks. How can the Minister not think that the balance has been completely overshadowed when a draft law has been tabled and then in the process it is found that the damage is twice as great? Then there is no balance anymore. In the Radical Left, we have said that clean air is so important to us that we have to vote yellow in this bill. It is not because there are no improvements to the bill, because it is there, but because we want to tighten this legislation as soon as a new majority comes in Denmark. We want clean air for the Danes. We will give more cities the opportunity to create environmental zones. We are going to phase in the requirements for vans and trucks more quickly. We are going to do something about the oldest passenger cars. By the way, it is very, very cheap to do something about the most ancient passenger cars, so I do not understand why the Minister has not taken care to get them out. We can only vote yellow to this proposal, because those who are out there need to know very clearly that if you go out and invest in accordance with this law, then you're going to have to invest in the wrong way, because these zones need to be tightened up, and that already has to be done by 2020 and 2022. In addition, we think that it is a really sloppy work that a research institution can be set up to update the figures on the damage caused by air pollution and then bring them in only 14 days after the legislative proposal has been tabled. It is simply not okay, it is not good enough, and that is why we end up voting yellow to this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502101419	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? That is not the case. I propose that the bill proceed directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502101435	The debate is open, and that is the Minister for Industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502101455	Thank you for the motion for a resolution tabled by the Alternative, B 131, on the investigation of cooperatives. In the motion for a resolution, the government is required before the end of this parliamentary assembly. It is good that it was not before a parliamentary election to set up a rapid-working working group to examine and clarify the particular challenges and problems of cooperatives and to propose a collective cooperative law. The working group will describe the models and regulations used in other European countries with which Denmark is comparable and a number of other conditions. Finally, the working group should identify how to create an overview and collect statistical knowledge about cooperatives in Denmark. The government wants to create a good framework for all companies in Denmark, and this also applies to cooperatives. Cooperative companies contribute to the Danish economy through both large and small companies, which are now established in different forms of cooperative companies. It is positive when more people come together in, for example, a cooperative to operate together that they can all benefit from. However, the Government does not agree that there is a need to set up a very rapid working group to undertake a national and international investigation of cooperatives, as proposed by the Alternative. The government cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution, and we cannot do so for the following reasons: there are already good opportunities for the creation of cooperatives, and we should not adopt separate legislation simply to standardize cooperatives and thus get an overview of their contribution to the Danish economy, and let me elaborate on the first argument. It is true that in Danish law there is no clear definition of cooperatives, nor are they separately regulated as an independent form of enterprise. However, there are already good opportunities to establish different types of cooperatives within the other existing types of companies. Cooperatives have the freedom to choose the business form that they find most useful for their business, and the Danish cooperatives are seen today among others. established as cooperatives, associations and foundations. Many cooperatives are established as cooperatives with limited liability, also known as a.m.b.a.In the case of a company governed by the law on certain economic activities. It is a form of enterprise which meets many of the needs of cooperatives. Cooperatives with limited liability are intended to promote the economic interests of the company's participants through business operations. They are also democratically constructed, so there is equal voting rights regardless of the amount of capital contributions. So you vote for heads and not for headheads, as the old well-known phrase says. In addition, cooperatives must fulfil the cooperative objective, which is to promote the common interests of the participants through their participation in the enterprise as buyers and suppliers or the like, and the company's return must either be distributed among the participants in proportion to their share of turnover or remain held in the company. Cooperatives therefore embrace joint-owned companies and are an obvious form of company for cooperatives. However, the cooperatives have the freedom to choose other forms of business and to adapt to what they think is most appropriate for the company, and we think that is a positive option and not a restriction. The second argument against the motion for a resolution is that we do not see the need to adopt separate legislation on cooperatives with a lot of related definitions and other detailed legislation simply for the purpose of reconciling and facilitating an overview of the contribution of cooperatives to the Danish economy. I am convinced that the potential cooperative companies themselves are best placed to assess the type of business that suits their business, and special tax incentives cannot be supported by the government either, as this will create very unequal conditions of competition on individual markets. It would appear unreasonable for a cooperative painting company to benefit from tax concessions in relation to the painter who has set up a joint venture. The alternative is to make it easier for cooperatives to have access to advice and funding. Here the government believes that there is a fine private market for advice, and finally the Danish business promotion system can help companies to find the right advisers. As the proposers also point out, the cooperatives have played a key role in the development of Danish society, and this is a well-known form of enterprise. All in all, therefore, it is our assessment that there is already sufficient opportunity to establish cooperatives in Denmark, as they can be accommodated within the many different types of business that we already have, and on that basis the government does not support motion for a resolution B 131.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502102013	Thank you. Sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502102018	I would like to ask the Minister's position on this with special tax advantages. We now have a number of different advantages in terms of success and generational change: the government has adopted a lower inheritance tax for family-owned companies, and there is a majority in the Folketing that has agreed tax advantages in relation to the transfer to a commercial fund. So there are already a number of different benefit programmes, one might say, for different forms of ownership in relation to generational change. That is why I am a little surprised that the government saw, for example, when it came to this issue. transfer to employees where e.g. In the UK, a targeted programme aimed at providing some tax advantages if a company's generational shift to a fund owned by its employees is of the opinion that it should be particularly distorting compared to the other benefit programmes.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502102110	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502102111	In relation to the generational shift, I would like to say that it is, of course, a very special challenge that family-owned companies face and which other companies do not have, and that is why, of course, there is a need for specific rules in this area. And if for other forms of business there are some particular challenges that are precisely linked to a particular form of business, we may sometimes have to address them through e.g. tax legislation. However, the starting point in the way we regulate companies should be that they compete on equal terms and that we do not, for example, tax a limited company less than a privately owned company or more than a cooperative. It will be inappropriate if it starts to be such that it is the form of the company that determines how to be taxed. So we want to avoid creating too many special rules for different forms of work, but sometimes there are, of course, some very special challenges that are linked precisely to the form of business that we may have to address.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502102214	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502102217	I still wonder a little, because it is also the case today that cooperatives are actually taxed quite differently from other companies, so that is not something we have no precedent for. I cannot quite understand why you think that you can make some very advantageous tax rules when transferring to a commercial fund... it is the minister's party that is part of a broad agreement on... but that you will not be open to making similar tax benefits by handing over to a employee-owned fund. Is it because you think that ownership in a commercial fund is more beneficial to society than ownership in a employee-owned fund?
ParlaMint-DK_20190502102258	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502102300	It will be very comprehensive if we are going to discuss to the bottom the advantages and disadvantages of different rules for funds too. Regardless of how you tax funds or family-owned companies or something else that there are some very specific, specific reasons we have chosen to do, I still think that the starting point here must be that different forms of ownership should be taxed equally and that we do not favour certain ways of organising companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502102336	Well, thank you for that, and then it's Mr. Knox. Julius Graakjær Grantzau, Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502102341	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for commenting on it. I really want to follow up on what Mr. Pelle Dragsted also asked about. Because, as I see it, also in relation to the comments we have on the resolution, it is not, of course, a question of having to make other tax conditions for cooperative companies in general compared with other companies. It is a question, as is also mentioned here, of being able to make some adjustments in relation to taxes, for example. in relation to transfer from the company to a employee-owned fund or to employee-owned shares. So my question to the Minister will actually first of all be whether the Minister sees any advantages in this type of company. And so you could think about whether, if you see any benefits, it could be relevant with legislation to make it actually possible to make targeted actions in relation to these companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502102445	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502102446	Well, I can see lots of benefits from cooperatives. It can create a co-ownership, it can engage a lot of people to do something common, and it can be motivating for the people who are involved in the project. So I can see a lot of benefits from it, and I think it's a great idea to make cooperatives, and I hope there's a lot of people who will do it. But since it is such a good idea, then there is no particular need for you to have some special advantages. Then the benefits, which lie in the form of business, should be enough for people to choose to establish themselves in this way without the need to have something extra in the form of tax rebates or special access to advice or some of the other things mentioned here in the proposal. It should actually be enough for people to have the advantages of organising themselves in this way, so that they choose to do so without us having to go in and favour them in a legislative way.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502102545	Sir. Julius Graakjær Grantzau, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502102546	Thank you. I just want to stress that the proposal here is not about giving these tax advantages to these companies. The proposal is that we would like the government to set up a working group to look into this. For this is an area that we have not been focusing on for many years on by the Danish Parliament, and this is an area where we in Denmark have historically been promoting in this area with these forms of enterprise, and where we are perhaps being overtaken by other countries that go in and see more about it. So we think it is important to have a debate on this. Thus a working group could look at it and map out this area so that decisions could subsequently be taken on the basis of it. That is what we have a little difficulty with today and which we can also see many, among other things. Danish Industry, actually recognises that there is little need to look at. So what would prevent us from even looking at this area, as the proposal actually proposes?
ParlaMint-DK_20190502102647	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502102648	You can always look at all sorts of things, you can do analyses of many things, and you can do work groups in one away. We would probably just like to see a greater need in one way or another, because we have a little difficulty in seeing that there should be significant obstacles to the creation of cooperatives. It seems to me that we can do this and then we can set ourselves up as a joint venture or a limited liability company or whatever form we want to take. There's nothing wrong with making cooperatives. So I find it hard to see what kind of problem you're trying to solve. That is probably why we do not really think there is a need for a working group.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502102730	Thank you. Then we start with the rapporteur's series. Sir. Thomas Jensen, Social Democrat, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502102745	Thank you, President. We are dealing here with the proposal from the Alternative that a working group should be set up to propose a clearer regulatory basis for cooperatives. And in the Social Democratic Party we basically agree that it would be appropriate to look at it, in other words to see whether a clearer framework and rules could be created for cooperatives. In many ways it is a little strange that we as an old cooperative country do not have a law on cooperatives in Denmark, although there are many Danish cooperatives, among others. the old cooperatives, because there are special circumstances for cooperatives in relation to other types of undertakings. In concrete terms, however, what the alternative proposes is to require the government to set up before the end of this Assembly a rapid working working group to examine and clarify the particular challenges and problems of cooperatives and to propose a collective cooperative law. The investigation shall be completed and submitted to the Folketing by 1 October 2020. In the Social Democratic Party, we think it is sensible to have such a working group looking at these particular challenges, but we also believe that it should be done properly. And I think we all know that we are faced with a parliamentary election that can be held here in the next few days. Yes, the parliamentary assembly will run out soon, but the proposers will then instruct the government before the end of this assembly to set up this working group, and of course we do not think this is realistic with the timetable we have at the moment. So the Social Democratic Party supports the intention, but considers the timetable unrealistic if we are to ensure the quality of such a working group and the framework within which it should work. That is why we shall abstain; we shall vote in favour of what is called yellow in Christiansborg. Then, after a parliamentary election, we can look at whether we should throw more work into such a working group; let us look at it after an election.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502102937	Thank you. Sir. Pelle Dragsted has just made a comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502102941	Thank you very much. I thought it was really positive tones. Is it to be understood that a social democratic government, if we get one of these after election, will be prepared to set up such a working group if it is then formulated, as the Alternative has done, I do not know that it is intended to look at and perhaps also learn from the experiences of other countries on how to create good framework conditions, which at least equate this type of company with others when it, for example, Is there a business promotion system and other things? And perhaps, as we know from many other countries, some special benefit programmes are being drawn up, for example. generational change to employee-owned funds.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502103022	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502103024	In this parliamentary term, I think there has been some of the financial legislation that has not been very positive for cooperatives. There are some who have got a little caught up in their way of working. That is why we have continually encountered some problems with this, and that is why I think that, after a parliamentary election, we should, for example, in the event that we are elected by a parliament. such a proposal as this one is being retabled must look carefully at whether any of this is relevant, including in some specific sectors. I think it could be particularly in the financial area where we have made a great deal of regulation with the good intention of getting the financial sector under control. That is why I think it is important to look at whether we have created some inappropriateness for the smaller cooperatives in Denmark. So it's definitely not something we're just pouring down the board, but I think we should take plenty of time to look at it properly in a new assembly of parliaments.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502103122	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502103123	One thing, of course, is the consumer-owned cooperative funds, but this issue of employee ownership or ownership in companies is something that the Socialists have historically been quite concerned with, but which may have had a little less place in recent years. However, if you look at some of your colleagues in other European countries, they have just resumed an interest in this attempt to promote the possibility of setting up companies wholly or partly owned by employees, or of transforming traditional companies in this direction in the context of generational change. Do the Socialists believe that there is a particular value in the fact that we have large and small companies owned by employees?
ParlaMint-DK_20190502103206	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502103207	We believe that it is good for the Danish business community that there are different types of ownership, so that in different sectors for different purposes you can form companies as you like. We've done that with employee investment companies in the last parliamentary assembly. It's a new break. I think that is a good thing. When Mr. Pelle Dragsted is asking about that thing, for example. to be able to sell the company to the employees, it is actually possible to sell on to senior employees within the framework of the Succession Act at least. There you can see whether that legislation is good enough. That's the kind of thing a committee like that could work on.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502103251	Thank you. Then it's mr. Julius Graakjær Grantzau, Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502103255	I would like to thank the rapporteur for at least partly supporting the intention of this proposal. As the rapporteur says, it may make sense to look at this. Now it was also mentioned by the rapporteur from the Enhedslisten that historically it is also something that the Social Democratic Party has talked about, but, as I mentioned earlier, it is something that all parties in the Folketing may not have talked about so much for a number of years, and that is why we are a little behind in a development if you look at other countries that are taking this area a little more for debate. I also note that the Social Democratic Party has recently stated that maintaining Danish infrastructure in Danish hands is important, and it can be said that democratic companies or cooperatives also have a capacity to preserve jobs and also create long-lasting robust Danish companies. Could the Social Democratic Party see the strength of having more such companies?
ParlaMint-DK_20190502103401	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502103403	We are not opposed to it, even when we look back on the history of utility associations and cooperatives and the whole cooperative idea and within the workers' movement also the cooperatives who have been there and who are still there, I can see in my calendar that in the coming week I shall talk to one of them. Of course, we are open to looking at whether the regulation today is good enough and no obstacles are put in the way of those types of companies. I think that in a freedom-loving country like Denmark there should be opportunities for different types of business, and let us see if some of these cooperatives run into some problems with the legislation we have today. But let us do so in the next parliamentary term, because we cannot achieve it in this parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502103448	Sir. Julius Graakjær Grantzau.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502103451	Thank you. I am just glad to hear that the Social Democrats want to look at this because there is a chance or a risk that it is also the Social Democrats who want something to say after the elections. One of the things you could look at and relate to in concrete terms was such a start-up advice, i.e. in the business promotion system, in relation to this kind of business. I also hear that it may be difficult to obtain specific advice and that you may have to turn to private advice, as the Minister also mentioned there was an opportunity. It could also be promoted in that system. Then there is also some ambiguity in relation to loan options. There could also be a better market where these companies were treated equally in relation to loan opportunities. So that is one of the things I think could be important to look at and on which the rapporteur may perhaps be able to comment at the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502103539	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502103540	These are, of course, some relevant areas which the proposer mentions here, and others may also be involved in it. So that is also why I think it would be a good thing if we in a new parliamentary assembly looked at those who may be sitting in here and whoever has the power with a broad palette looked at what it is that you might have to investigate and then do the work thoroughly during the next parliamentary term. Then we can decide whether this will give rise to new legislation. It may also be that this is just a reason for us to have some adjustments to existing legislation. But let us look at it after a thorough analysis.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502103618	Thank you. And then there are no more brief remarks. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502103629	On behalf of the Danish People's Party, I would like to thank the alternative for today's opportunity to discuss the various forms of cooperative companies for which there is a basis in Denmark. This is something that has been here for many years, and it has also been shown that many of these companies have been incredibly viable. We saw that, among other things. also in connection with the recent financial crisis from 2008 and some years ahead, when it turned out that on average they actually handled the financial crisis much, much better than many other Danish companies. This could be seen in relation to the development of the workplace. Many of them are part of Production Denmark, and they certainly did not have the motivation to move their companies abroad and flag out Danish production jobs that many other companies had. And it may have something to do with the fact that they have a different kind of profit approach, namely that, as described in the Alternative's comments on this motion for a resolution, they do not want to take all profits out of companies, but want to invest them and are therefore satisfied with a model for paying a lower return than many other companies would traditionally be interested in. We have had a discussion not so long ago here in the Danish Parliament, where we also discussed some of what this proposal deals with • I think it was Enhedslisten who had a proposal 14 days ago, where we also mentioned the consumer-owned and employee-owned companies in Denmark and the question of whether we could give them better framework conditions. In any case, the Danish People's Party agrees that it makes sense for us to have a look at this and that we will also have a study based on the analysis that came earlier this year, namely the survey that came from this newly-started association, the Think Tank Democratic Business, where among others. Coop's in. And there you have among others. found out that there are in fact more than 18,000 Danish companies which are wholly or partly owned by cooperative companies and with several co-owners behind them. So it is not so few jobs that are covered by the activities of cooperative societies in Denmark. Where the proposal put forward by the alternative is perhaps a little problematic, one might say, it is in relation to what the Minister also said a little bit, namely that we want to look at something with tax concessions. There we in the Danish People's Party think that one should be very careful to take that discussion into a context related to companies. Because, as I mentioned earlier, Coop is one of the great ones in this area, and in our view we cannot make different tax rules so that they are taxed differently from all the other free Danish merchants who also make a living selling consumer goods and food to Danish consumers. Similarly, the alternative is that we should look at something about cooperative investment funds. It is not the policy of the Danish People's Party that we should have more types of these investment funds. There, we believe, we already have enough investment funds in Denmark. And if you have to look at some of it, you might see how they are being used today and whether they are also open to cooperative societies. We would have liked most of all to have been involved in making a very good report in the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, together with the alternative and other parties, but we simply do not manage to do so because, whatever happens, it will not be long before the election campaign is held, and we simply cannot have those things dealt with in committee in a satisfactory manner. So our recommendation is that we should, as the Social Democrat rapporteur said, be very happy to discuss it here in a forthcoming session after the parliamentary elections that are at hand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502104057	Thank you. Sir. Julius Graakjær Grantzau, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502104102	Thank you for that, as well as thank you to the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. Finally, I did not hear what the rapporteur was going to vote on when I just spoke to the Minister. The rapporteur mentions here that the rapporteur will not have different conditions for different types of companies, that it is problematic, but one of the things that might be done with taxation was precisely to allow existing companies to become cooperatives by transferring shares to a employee-owned fund. It was also an opportunity to turn a company into this kind of business.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502104149	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502104152	Yes, there is already an opportunity to do so with the legislation currently in force. I also believe that the Socialist rapporteur referred to this in connection with the amendment of the legislation made a few years ago under the leadership of the Social Democrats in relation to the slaughterhouse at Bornholm, where a new form of company construction was being created. It has not really proved its worth in many other places, but it does not change the fact that there are opportunities, according to Danish company law, to do so already today. I also noted that the questioner was disturbed during my perfectly excellent rapporteur's speech. However, it is true that we are a little critical of the part of what the rapporteur has noted in the comments on the resolution that there should be special tax incentives, and also that a real cooperative investment fund should be proposed. These are not things that we immediately see in the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502104249	Thank you. And here you go again.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502104251	Thank you. That is also why it makes sense to create a working group in the first place. I think we can all agree on that at some point. I certainly hope so. What that work can be used for, we can then discuss afterwards. I can of course ask, as I also asked the Social Democrat rapporteur, whether the Danish People's Party sees a value in getting more of this type of company.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502104319	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502104320	We always see a value in companies in Denmark that generate both export and productivity and turnover, also in Denmark, and employment, not least. We have the options today. There are three basic forms of cooperative societies which are also described in the author's own draft of this. There are some who are consumer-owned, some who are producer-owned and some who are member-owned, and within that framework there are now good opportunities to establish further cooperatives. It goes without saying that when it is over 18,000 of them already today, it has not been entirely without ease to set up companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502104401	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502104411	The alternative's motion for a resolution deals with the issue of which there may be no doubt about any longer the cooperatives. The proposal is to set up a working group to propose a collective cooperative law, including a definition of cooperatives. We already have a lot of them in Denmark and a proud tradition of them, and they exist under different types of company. Many of them are established as cooperatives with limited responsibility, but they may also be organised as associations of economic operators, consumer-owned, producer-owned, etc. This is something we have a proud tradition of in Denmark, and when you have your roots in Thisted, you have to mention Coop. For the first utility association was established in Thisted more than 150 years ago, and large proud Danish companies such as Arla and Danish Crown are cooperatives. So it is a proud Danish tradition that unfolds in relation to the existing legislation, so that it is possible today to run a cooperative company within the laws and rules that apply, and many of them have done so for incredibly many years. I am basically a great advocate of having a healthy and dynamic business environment, including a business environment where there is room to operate in different forms, i.e. with different ownership structures, types of ownership, and we think that basically there is a very good opportunity for that already today. When you can see how many companies exist as cooperatives and how much they fill in the Danish economy I think it was the Danish People's Party's rapporteur who referred to the studies that have been carried out, you have to say that it is a company form that is used diligently in Denmark and that, as I said, it is part of Denmark's DNA. The question is: should we then make a special law for cooperatives, since it has been able to operate for 150 years now in relation to existing company law? I can be a little in doubt about that. Although there are no specific rules for anything, is it necessary to make it? Or are we really going to see that we have rules on how to operate in Denmark, also as a cooperative, and that basically it works quite sensibly? And the question is whether to take something that is well-functioning and then start putting it into some special boxes and making it a little more square. I can be a little worried about that. I would also say that there must be a misunderstanding if the alternative is to believe that our business promotion system cannot be used as a cooperative or company. Our business promotion system is open to everyone. There is no question of company type, type of ownership or anything else. It is, in fact, everyone who wants to run a business that can get advice in our business promotion system, and it is clear that the public sector must provide a business promotion system that can help people well on the way, but there is also a well-functioning private market when it becomes more specialised advice. It is only right that companies themselves should also help to pay for some of the highly specialised advice they receive, while we have a publicly funded business promotion system, which we use in the region of 5 billion. kr. On. But basically, the assessment from the Left is that we do not see the need to develop a specific cooperative law, which means that we do not support the resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502104805	Thank you. Sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502104809	With regard to the business promotion system, I would say that if we are to be able to use it as a democratic company or as a cooperative, we also need to have some knowledge in the system about this type of business. And that's what's not really true. For example, you compare. with Sweden, you will see a very big difference. If you agree to something like that similar to the Danish Virk, you will find much more attention and support for the cooperative forms as well as guidance on how to start up. Here is something we could do differently in Denmark. But my question is actually about something else, and it is whether the rapporteur is aware that over the last few years there has been a lot of research, so hundreds of research projects across countries and on the basis of 50,000 or more company surveys, which document that employee-owned companies perform better; that they simply have a higher growth in productivity than comparable conventional companies. And does the rapporteur see that the promotion of employee ownership could be part of the solution to the so-called productivity problem we have in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20190502104915	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502104917	Well, I'm actually wondering something. I may be too polemical, but when the government, the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left made an agreement on the business and entrepreneurial package, we relaxed, among other things. the rules for the allocation of employee shares, so that more shares and start-ups could be paid out a larger share of the salary in the form of employee shares. And maybe I'm wrong, but I don't think the Enhedslisten supported it. But it was thus an opportunity for the companies themselves to choose to say: We would actually like to reward our employees; give them part of the ownership of the company and do so in a taxable way also to the employees. So we kind of do some of what Enhedslisten wants. And I hope, sir. Pelle Dragsted can correct me if I'm wrong. However, I would remind you that when we gave better opportunity to give the employees shares, the Enhedslisten voted against.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502105022	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502105025	In fact, I do not remember exactly whether that proposal was included in a broader proposal. However, employee stock programmes can be one form of employee ownership promotion. Many other places in the world are doing so. What may be the challenge is that if it is shares that accompany the employee and do not form part of a fund of the employees involved at any time, then there is gradually a separation between those who own the company and those who work in the company. So there are different ways to work this together. However, if there are broad programmes, including programmes that include all employees on equal terms in the companies and not just the top layer, which we unfortunately see in many companies, then employee shares can also be a way of promoting employee ownership. And it's also included in these studies, by the way. You look not only at fully-owned companies, but also at companies where the employees have part ownership. And in both cases a significantly higher productivity can be seen. In other words, they simply perform better than purely investor-owned companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502105124	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502105126	I think it is important that it is companies that make these decisions and that we should not force anything down on companies. There's private property. And that is why I am quite sure that there are many companies that draw attention to the research that is being referred to. I will not promise that I will be able to make a full reference to it, but I remember seeing some headlines. After all, we see every day that companies say: Well, we actually want our employees to be part of the ownership circle and thus hopefully also to have a better common interest in the company's operation, survival and profits. That is why there are many who make use of the very many good, well-functioning arrangements that we have. And I think that is quite reasonable.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502105215	Thank you. Sir. Julius Graakjær Grantzau, Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502105221	Thank you to the rapporteur for commenting on the proposal here. I note that the rapporteur says that it can be restrictive if you go in and make some legislation about these companies. The intention of this proposal was actually to strengthen this area and these companies and cooperatives with some legislation. So I'm having a little trouble understanding how it can be limiting. This gives us the opportunity to focus on something when you define it. After all, we have seen in England and in other countries that legislation is defined in this area, and it then allows you to subsequently support this area, according to how you want to politically support it. So can the rapporteur clarify whether it is not possible to promote an area too that some legislation is being made in that area?
ParlaMint-DK_20190502105310	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502105311	Legislation can be both positive and negative, that goes without saying. What was my main point was to say that we have cooperative companies today, which exist in relation to the legislation in force; company law or cooperative law; and that is where I ask whether it is actually going to be quite much better if a new category is then created, a new set of rules of the game, which we need to clarify and familiarise ourselves with and act upon, in relation to well-known and existing rules, as I know, has helped to ensure that we are a country with a proud, proud history of cooperative movement and user associations and other things. The question is whether it will be quite different if you take and put it in a separate law. I think that sometimes one might be more helpful to the business community by not making new rules, but always listening to concrete proposals if something is edgy and troublesome. We put a lot of emphasis on this on the Left side. If anyone makes concrete proposals about a problem that we have not discovered ourselves, we will of course listen and take it to heart.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502105421	Sir. Julius Graakjær Grantzau.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502105423	Thank you. We kind of agree that we in Denmark have a proud tradition about this. That's what's good. When we look around in other countries where specific legislation has been made on cooperatives, we can see that there is such a kind of blossoming again in this area which, as far as I can judge from the figures I have seen, does not happen in the same way in Denmark. We have had a long tradition and fortunately those companies still exist, so we have many companies. But not so many new cooperatives are being started. It might be nice to reboot this success that we have had in the past so that we can have even more in the future. The world has changed since then. We have IT, and we have everything else now, so there are new types of companies that could use these types of companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502105513	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502105515	It could be that it was because we in Denmark have been at the forefront in this area that we have had rules that have made it possible to set up cooperative companies, for example. Fortunately, we have a proud tradition of this, and we have reason to be proud of it. It could have been that other countries had looked to Denmark with envy to be inspired. Then how they have chosen to deal with it, they have to change. As I have said, however, I believe that the existing rules offer ample scope for setting up a company with the structure and the form of ownership which one would like to see.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502105551	Thank you. We move on to the next rapporteur, who is Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502105557	Thank you. I would also like to thank the alternative for putting forward an excellent proposal on setting up a working group to examine our democratic sector. There's talk of cooperatives. Another word for the same is democratic companies, and they are thus characterised, as the Minister also said, by the fact that they are governed according to the principle of popularity: one person, one vote, as opposed to, for example, one vote. the investor-owned companies, which are governed by the principle of one krone, one vote. So these are two very different ways of managing a business. It is good that we are discussing in this Chamber how we can support and promote this type of business. I am also very positive about the tones that actually come all around that are positive about this. Because it is true that Denmark has a long tradition of democratic companies. They fill well in our business landscape. It has been important, it has been important. Unfortunately, however, we have also seen in recent years, perhaps a little in contrast to what the previous rapporteur said, that they have been pushed a little in the defensive. We have seen that many previously consumer-owned companies have been transformed into investors' ownership, and thus democracy in companies has disappeared. Conversely, in many other countries we see great growth in this type of business. Therefore, there is good reason to ask whether we can do anything in Denmark to take part in the democratic economic wave that we see in Europe and the United States over these years. There's good reason for that, because there's a lot of benefits to this. One of the obvious is that it is about democracy and influence. There are simply several citizens who have a democratic influence on an important part of our society, namely our business community. This helps to combat the inequality we see growing. It is clear that when we own a company together, we also share the profits in contrast to the investors' or fund-owned ones, for example, where the profits accrue to a reduced ownership group. Finally, and this is what I mentioned before, we can actually see that this type of company is simply performing better than conventional investor-owned companies. They have higher productivity growth, they are better at responding to market demand, they are more viable during crises. If we look at financial companies, we can see that they are more counter-cyclical, so they borrow money when needed, and do not lend so much money when not needed, unlike conventional banks. So there are a great many advantages, and that is actually very natural, because when consideration is not only for next year's bottom line, but there are in fact people who have a broader social perspective, because you are citizens, of course, better consideration is also often taken into account. You can do a lot to promote these types of companies. Looking into the world, it is quite clear that the countries that have a good framework for democratic companies are also where democratic companies thrive and grow. With good framework conditions you can understand a number of elements. Some of this is about the business promotion system, where at least these companies must be put on an equal footing. This means that when you as an entrepreneur turn to one of the local business houses, there must be knowledge of the possibility of setting up with others in a democratic business. In Sweden there is a targeted branch of the business promotion system called Coompanion, which also supports the creation of democratic companies and social economic enterprises. It is also possible, as is the case in Britain, to take account of changes in the democratic generation fiscally. That might be interesting to look at. And then we can discuss access to capital, where it is harder for democratic companies to find access to capital because they are not prepared to give investors the same influence, because it would then change the democratic nature of companies and no longer turn them into democratic companies. So there's a need to look at some things. Just as we have supported sustainable behaviour in companies for a number of years, we should also support democratic behaviour in companies in the future. Later today, kl. 16.00, we present from the Enhedslisten side a big proposal that answers some of the things that the Alternative suggests that this working group should respond to at least our suggestions on how to do this. I am very excited to present this, and there are still some seats left, so if you want to participate, you can sign up on Facebook. And then I look forward very much to the fact that after an election, yes, almost no matter what, it sounds like we're getting a new government or not... we can start this discussion. However, I note, of course, the positive statements made by the Socialist rapporteur, and I have no doubt that we will have a new political majority, such a working group will be set up here within the first year of that government's lifetime. I dare to put a box of handbrews on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502110101	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mrs May-May-Britten Kattrup, as there are no comments.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502110110	Thank you. It is important to have a good framework for all companies in Denmark, including cooperatives. However, I do not believe that there is a need for further regulation, administration or bureaucracy and for the use of tax dollars on valuation work, especially for cooperatives. If anyone feels that there are obstacles or shortcomings or problems specific to cooperatives, then I think we should address the specific issues. And then I would very much like to look at it and, if appropriate, submit it to the Minister, if appropriate. The proposers talk about employee issues, generational changes and tax rules. So, Liberal Alliance would very much like it to be easier for all companies to run and start business in Denmark. And we would very much like there to be lower taxes on all companies, including cooperatives. We are also happy to work to facilitate the generational change, and if the red wing has a desire to abolish the inheritance tax, then we would be happy to back it up. We would also like to make it even easier for all companies to give employee shares, but we do not see any need for further special rules in this area, and we therefore do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502110233	Thank you. And we move on in the rapporteur's line. Excuse me, did you just make a brief comment? Who makes a brief comment? Sir. Julius Graakjær Grantzau it was a little late, but here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502110252	Thank you. I'm sorry I got in a little late. I just want to ask you a few questions. So, the rapporteur mentions that it can make it more bureaucratic, and I also heard that from a former rapporteur, so that it can become more bureaucratic if you make more legislation on these types of business. What is really intended is to simplify it, because cooperatives can be created in all possible ways. However, a cooperative law could perhaps simplify it precisely, making it clearer what is cooperative and what conditions and opportunities cooperatives have.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502110323	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502110326	If that is the case, I would urge the rapporteur to say in concrete terms: these laws or these rules and paragraphs are simply too bureaucratic, they are too complicated, can we not make them simpler? And then let us look at it rather than start a larger investigation work with the use of a lot of tax dollars in a whole area. If there are any specific issues, address them and let us look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502110349	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502110354	I do not think it costs a lot of tax dollars to set up such a working group here. Well, it costs some money, of course, but in relation to all sorts of other measures it is hopefully not the worst. But what is missing is, in our opinion, a contract law. In other words, it is not the concrete measures that can be taken, which are at first the crucial thing, but to say that a cooperative law could precisely allow us to discuss better what measures could be taken. So in relation to such an overall cooperative law, it is fine that there is a working group investigating it, so that it is not the alternative's bid for a cooperative law that will be what we are talking about, but that it could actually be the government's working group that could make a suggestion as to how best to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502110435	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502110438	I mean, there are a lot of cooperatives today. And if they feel that they are facing some specific problems, or if someone who wants to start up some new cooperatives is encountering some specific problems, why not address the specific problems and let us look at it instead of creating another working group to do another investigation and to spend even more tax dollars on everything else? Let's do it in concrete terms. There are plenty of cooperatives in Denmark today, and if they have any specific problems, let us address them and see what they are.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502110510	Thank you. And then it is Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left, as the next rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502110517	Thank you very much. Today we are discussing motion for a resolution B 131 to initiate a study on cooperatives. So it is quite a peaceful motion for a resolution tabled here by the alternative. And basically, we agree with the intention. On the radical side, we have also worked a lot with both co-owned companies and employee-owned companies. And now it's called cooperatives. We have also discussed this recently in connection with another proposal. And basically, we think that if we can get a political focus on this area and get a look at whether the framework conditions are good enough, and get some more entrepreneurs and some more companies to think that it is a form of ownership that we could benefit from as we could develop, then we think it would be very good. That is why we can support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502110614	Thank you. And there are no comments on that. There is no one from the SF, so we move on to the Conservative People's Party. Sir. Anders Johansson, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502110626	Thank you very much. This motion for a resolution has been tabled by the Alternative and, as has already been mentioned, it is a question of instructing the government to initiate an investigation into cooperatives. A rapid-working group will examine how to address the specific challenges of cooperatives and propose a single cooperative law. In the Conservative People's Party, we think it is very good with employee-owned companies, association-owned companies, etc. etc. We are, in fact, positive about this. But we are also very aware that when we make business policy, it must apply generally to business. So, we must have good business conditions for all our companies, whether they are organised in one way or another, regardless of how they are owned, because it is crucial that we have good business conditions in Denmark, so that we can create the growth and prosperity that, of course, helps to finance the entire welfare society that we have. We do not think that, for example, there is a need for a common policy on the environment. cooperatives must be accorded or have significantly different or better conditions than undertakings organised in other types of ownership or company. We must have a fair and equal competition. Nor do we believe that there is a need to create a collective cooperative law in Denmark, because there are already a great many opportunities to organise themselves. There are, for example: a.m.b.a. and different opportunities in foundations and cooperatives. It is possible to issue employee shares and employee options. In this context, we would also very much like to take a look at this generational shift. So we have to look at abolishing the generational tax. We are very positive about this in the Conservative People's Party. But it is again something that applies more generally. So from our point of view, we would very much like to continue a business-friendly course. We kind of think it's for the best. And one of the very best things we can do for business is to remove taxes and burdens and administration so that companies can concentrate on what they are good at, namely to run businesses. So we see no immediate need to set up this working group and draw up a cooperative law. We think that the legislation we already have is comprehensive. We would very much like to look at whether we can remove some more burdens, but we cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502110843	Thank you. And there are no comments, so it is the rapporteur for the proposers who is going to be here now. Sir. Julius Graakjær Grantzau, Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502110904	Thank you for that to the President. As has been mentioned many times today, we are talking about cooperatives and the alternative's proposal to set up a working group to look at a possible cooperative law in Denmark that they have in other countries. First of all, I would like to thank you for a very good debate. I am pleased that many of the parties welcome this proposal and that there seems to be a feeling that it is something we can continue to discuss and that it may even be something we can look at in the future. So I'm very pleased about that. One of the things I note in today's debate is that it is mentioned that we already have a great many cooperatives in Denmark and that, therefore, this is not necessarily something we need to look at in order to support it. And there it is, fortunately. This is something we in Denmark have a very proud tradition of, and it is one of the things that has lifted our country to where we are today. But when we look at how developments have been in recent years, it has come to a halt. I mean, we're not gonna create so many new cooperatives compared to what we saw in the past. On the other hand, we see this in other countries where new cooperatives are being set up. Then it is also mentioned by several rapporteurs that it can be because we already have all the cooperatives in Denmark. So we already have the ones we need, or we already have so many more than the others. I do not think that is an argument for us not to start new cooperatives. In other words, there are many new forms of enterprise today; there are many new sectors; there are many new forms of work. We have a completely different world today than 150 years ago. So in this way it also makes sense to update the legislation in this way, so you can support companies in new industries to also use this form of enterprise. We do not see this being done as much as we see in other countries. So if we want to maintain this good tradition and also stand here again in 50 years and see that we have a lot of cooperatives in Denmark, then I think it's important that we get a look at making a real cooperative law. At any rate, it seems that in other countries it can help to set up more new companies. We would also like to see this in Denmark. In other words, it is not because new companies are generally not being set up in Denmark. But when you do not start cooperatives here, but do it in other countries, it could be because there is a lack of legislation or some focus on it at least. But that is what we are getting today. And it will continue, so I am glad that it is then also said that when it comes to strengthening business, it has to be done in general. But it is not the case that we in the Folketing do not go in and strengthen different parts of the economy when it is needed. And there it is because of what I have just said that, in our opinion, it is also necessary to strengthen this area. So in this way, as the rapporteur from the Enhedslisten also mentions, it is also a question of getting equal treatment; that is to say, getting equal cooperatives compared to other companies. So I think that also helps to strengthen the Danish business community. That is not at all what it is about not doing, on the contrary. Cooperatives are an amazing form of business. So, as has also been mentioned by various rapporteurs, it is companies that live longer and do well in crisis; it is companies that maintain employees; it is companies that keep the money locally; it is companies that support that production is not moved out. In other words, when you as an employee are engaged in your company, you are of course not interested in the production moving out of the country and that the company closes. You are not necessarily interested in the production moving from Thisted, where you started it, and then to another part of the country. You actually think very much about what could be beneficial for the local community, for the economy, for job creation and for production when working with these types of company. And that's why I think it's worth looking at how we can get some more of them started and not just be content with the fact that 150 years ago and until recently a great many were started, but that in this time we are living in now we can get more of these companies started. The alternative has proposed to sum up the setting up of a rapid-working working group to examine and clarify the particular challenges and problems of cooperatives and to propose a collective cooperative law. We have therefore done so because there is no law on cooperatives in Denmark. But there are many cooperatives. There are three basic types of cooperatives: it can be consumer-owned companies, which are probably best known from banks, insurance companies, cooperative associations and utilities for water, wind, heat and electricity; it can be producer-owned companies, and it can be employee-owned companies The fact that there is no clear corporate form for cooperatives means, firstly, that it is difficult to have a comprehensive overview of the size and importance of the cooperative sector in Denmark, although we are aware that it is of great importance. This contrasts with a number of other countries in Europe, where cooperatives have their own types of company, and where, therefore, information on cooperatives can simply be found, similar to what can be found in, for example, cooperatives. The Danish Business and Society Board and Denmark's Statistics in Denmark. In this way, there are figures showing that the cooperatives in the EU, without Denmark, represented 131,000 companies with 4.4 million employees and a turnover of almost 993 billion euros in 2015. Secondly, there is no valid advice in the business promotion system if you want to set up a cooperative company. Here, then, we must either seek out professional organizations or lawyers and accountants, as the Minister has already mentioned, who must help to construct a company that we want to own together. Thirdly, it may be difficult to gain access to Community ownership when it comes to borrowing money and finding funding, because the form of cooperative is not clear as other forms of enterprise. Nevertheless, cooperatives are a form of enterprise which has formed the basis for a large part of the development of the Danish welfare state and the welfare of the population, i.e. among others. in terms of good and cheap goods and housing, high security of supply, high quality of services at a proper price, long-term investments in energy infrastructure. It can, for example. be the very large investments in fibre networks that the energy companies can make today because the cooperative money is patient and long-term, as the owners and consumers can see that the investments are actually for their common good. And so it is also with regard to access to solidarity insurance and banking services. What has ensured the validity of this whole network of benefits and opportunities for ordinary people is democratic control of the economy of cooperatives. In the coming years, a generational change will be needed in Denmark in a large number of companies. Unfortunately, it is not so often that an owner thinks that the employees of the companies or a part of the employees might want to acquire the company jointly. In order to create better opportunities for such an employee takeover, an offer obligation could be made to them correspondingly the one found in the lease law when selling e.g. rental property. Here a landlord must offer the tenants to buy the property as a cooperative housing association at the same price that one would be able to obtain in open trade before there is an opportunity to trade the property to the other side. But so, these are various suggestions and ideas. What it really is about is getting a more thorough look at this. That is why it is crucial that the working party, among other things: proposals on how to facilitate the access of cooperatives to advice and funding, and on how to describe and propose solutions to the particular problems associated with, inter alia, the development of the cooperative. employee ownership, generational change and tax rules. The working group will also identify how to create an overview of and collect statistics and knowledge about cooperatives in Denmark. Thank you for a very good debate and thank you to the President.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502111746	I would like to thank the rapporteur. No one has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed. I will have to take a five-minute break, because if the President is to sit here quietly for 45 minutes yet, then I will have to take an errand.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502112101	Then we'll resume the meeting. Everybody's calm now.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502112119	The debate is open. Here you go, Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502112126	Thank you for the motion for a resolution on the introduction of blinding labels on packages of veterinary medicinal products. After all, there is no doubt that a labelling system with blind words on veterinary medicinal products would make a great deal of sense, just as it does for human beings. As the authors have said, this will allow blind and partially sighted people to be able to purchase veterinary medicines on their own and thereby ensure their independence from viewing citizens. I have therefore also examined the current rules in this area, in the hope that it would be possible to introduce a national requirement for labelling with Braille on veterinary medicinal products. Unfortunately, the current rules in this area prevent Denmark from introducing a national requirement for Braille. The rules, which we have agreed jointly in the European Union, are designed so that they do not indicate possible reasons for refusing to approve a veterinary medicinal product for animals. And the given reasons are exhaustive. It does not therefore allow Denmark to go on a national basis and refuse to grant marketing authorisation because information on the packaging is not given in Braille. It is therefore not possible to enforce a national requirement for Braille on the packaging. A number of new rules in this area will be introduced in January 2022. However, it is extremely doubtful whether they will be interpreted differently from the rules already in force today in relation to the question of introducing requirements for Braille. I am not aware of specific challenges in this area, but I am quite open to discussing the options for proposals for solutions. In this context, I would suggest that the Danish Medicines Agency should be asked to enter into a dialogue with the association of companies that develop and market veterinary medicines in Denmark, Sweden and Norway, and in this way we can identify whether it is possible to find a solution on a voluntary basis, where manufacturers apply blinding to the packages of veterinary medicines. In addition, I will contact the European Commission in parallel in order to assess whether the future rules in this area can be interpreted in such a way that this will be possible. So, to sum up: the government cannot therefore support the fact that we are going national alone and introducing a label with blind words on animal medicines. This is basically due to the fact that there is no legal basis for it in the current EU rules in this area. Having said that, however, I would like to stress once again that I would very much like to continue working to ensure that we also find a proper solution to the problem so that people who are blind or partially sighted can also be able to take care of their animals themselves. We know this is relevant, given that very many blind people also have guide dogs and therefore have animals where there may be a need for medication. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502112359	Thank you. There is one comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502112410	Thank you, Minister, and also thank you for the Minister's very positive speech in finding solutions to this. But does the Minister not think it is really grotesque that we in Denmark cannot impose any national requirements on how we would like to see pharmaceutical packages for animals being, in order to ensure that blind and partially sighted people can also read what is on the pack when they have a guide dog? Does the Minister not think that it is actually very grotesque that we cannot make national demands on the Danish side because of the European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20190502112445	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502112449	No, in fact, I think it makes very good sense for us to have common EU legislation when it comes to medicines. We have also dealt with new veterinary legislation in the European Union just over the last few years, and I know that this issue has not been raised. That would be natural, and that is also what I would like to take the initiative in saying that we should also raise it with other EU countries. I do not think that this is just a Danish problem. I think that when we look at marketing authorisations for medicines too, we recognise that if we make a large number of national special requirements, we run the risk of facing a situation where producers simply opt out of placing a product on the Danish market. That is why the directives have some scope for drawing up Danish special rules, but it is an exhaustive list, which is not our opinion that this falls within the scope of this directive. Nevertheless, as I said at the outset, I believe that it is a relevant issue to discuss whether a solution to this problem cannot be found so that we can move forward in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502112538	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502112541	On the part of the Danish People's Party, we at least think that it is really incredible that the EU should decide what national rules we should have here in Denmark. But can the Minister then say something about the future process, i.e. when to contact the relevant parties to find a way, so that we can get closer to ensuring that we get Braille in this particular area?
ParlaMint-DK_20190502112543	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502112611	After all, since 2011, we have had a blanket on medicines for people, so it is not because it is something we have always had. And now this question is raised. I think it is extremely relevant to bring it up. That is also why, in my speech, I indicated that we will already put the Danish Medicines Agency to contact both our neighbouring countries, but also the producer association. It is to see if a voluntary scheme could be found in the first place so that we could get started. However, I also think it is important to say that if this means that if we, as the Danish People's Party, want to go national alone, then we will not have medicines for animals marketed in Denmark at all, then it is also an animal welfare problem and also a safety problem. That's why we have to do this the right way. That is why I want to bring it up with the Commission, and the Agency for Medicinal Products will also take it up in the right fora.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502112653	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502112706	Thank you. I would like to follow up on the questions raised by Mrs Karina Adsbøl. This proposal is precisely a proposal which strengthens consumer protection, which is why I find it rather difficult to see why it should conflict with some national concerns. For those who produce medicines also for veterinary use will still be interested in selling medicines in Denmark. Why, then, should it be a problem for us in Denmark to introduce rules to strengthen consumer protection for blind and partially sighted people? It could certainly provide an opportunity to be a pioneer country, so that they could also be able to do so in other countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502112735	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502112738	That is also the reason why I say in my speech that it is on the basis of the actual awareness of this issue. I must admit that I have not thought of this matter until the Danish People's Party tabled the motion for a resolution. That is why we have also devoted some effort to finding out whether this is an opportunity and what it could mean. This is also why we are now starting talks with the Danish Medicines Agency with both the organisations in the field and with the other Nordic countries. I just have to say that I do not share Enhedslisten's view that when we talk about veterinary medicines and we talk about humane medicines, it is just that Denmark as a small country is attractive to producers. It is not in all areas. We have also had the whole discussion on splitting packages in the veterinary pharmaceutical sector, as we actually did in this collection or it was in the last session that we changed legislation because it was difficult to get small enough package sizes into the market. So to the perception that it cannot lead to the risk of things not being marketed in Denmark, I have to say that it is not a view that I share. And that is why we must also ensure that this does not end up putting a brake on another consideration that we have, namely that there is good availability for veterinary medicines in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502112844	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502112848	If the study undertaken by the government on international experience and on how to implement such legislation here in Denmark shows that it is uncomplicated to do so, will it change the Minister's view so that there could be a requirement that there should be Braille on pharmaceutical packages for veterinary use in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20190502112913	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502112917	I do not know whether the questioner simply did not hear what I said at the beginning, but then I would like to repeat it. The Danish Medicines Agency is now going to address the colleagues in the other Nordic countries and also in the trade associations to see if we can already make a voluntary scheme here and now, so that on the veterinary medicinal products marketed not only in Denmark but also in the Nordic countries we have a thought that we could look at the entire Nordic area • could be made blind writing. If you can do that, we think it could be a way to go. At the same time, we will make contact with the Commission, and it is both in relation to whether there is an interpretation in the existing rules and whether it could be envisaged that it could be included in the new veterinary directive that we have drafted on veterinary medicinal products. And that is because we have a wish that we, as we do in the case of human medicines, should also get it on animal medicines. So I do not really understand why Enhedslisten's rapporteur, just as he is challenging that it should also be the Government's wish.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502113006	Thank you. Then we start with the rapporteur's series. Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502113013	Thank you for that and thank you to the DF for putting forward the proposal, which is very relevant. I would also like to thank the Minister for the opening that I think clearly came from the Minister. In the Social Democratic Party, of course, we believe that people with disabilities should have the same opportunities to exploit their full potential and take responsibility for their own lives as all other citizens in this country. In the specific case of blind writing on veterinary medicinal products, reasoned doubts have been raised as to whether it is even possible to go Danish alone without coming across the EU regulation on the free movement of goods. It is not, in fact, a question of the EU not liking blind writing, but it is a question of the fact that goods must be able to flow across borders without being prevented from doing so, because specific demands have been made by individual countries. However, as the Minister also mentioned in his speech, other solutions have been put forward, including whether a voluntary solution can be found with business. Therefore, in this situation, where it may seem difficult to get through in the EU, and we are not sure either, when the new legislation comes into force in 2022, that it is possible that it would be a very sensible thing to try to work on a voluntary scheme in the first place. The Minister's initiatives here are certainly interesting. I expect, of course, that we will be able to get this properly clarified during the committee procedure if we have time to do it at all, and we look forward to it in the Social Democratic Party. Indeed, there should be no doubt that it would be a step forward for people who are partially sighted or bound if veterinary medicinal products would also be equipped with Braille. That is why we fully support the intention behind the proposal, but we are waiting for our position until the work of the committee has been completed. And I should like to greet the Radicals and say that they think the same as we do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502113229	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502113232	Thanks for the speech. Now, as the Minister did, the rapporteur himself mentions this issue of voluntary service. That is also fine, and it is a good thing if we can reach an agreement by voluntary means. However, does the rapporteur agree that it is a perfectly reasonable requirement to say that medicines for veterinary use must also be designed in such a way that both blind and partially sighted people have the opportunity to see what is in the packs and that, if it is not possible to do so by voluntary means, then we must take account of consumer safety and consumer protection in relation to it should be given the highest weight?
ParlaMint-DK_20190502113309	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502113312	So it is a quite reasonable requirement that blind and partially sighted people should also be able to read medicine for their animals, as the rest of us can; that is a quite reasonable requirement. When we cannot get anywhere immediately I hear the Minister also say that the Minister is willing to contact his colleagues in both the Nordic countries and also in the European Union, if I heard correctly about putting this in place, because this must be a common challenge I do not think we should wait for this requirement to come down sometime. Then we must try to work to get it through by volunteering. Because if we can do that, we are certainly on the right track.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502113358	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502113401	Thank you. At any rate, I am pleased to hear that the rapporteur also shares the view that this is a perfectly reasonable demand and that this is something we must have implemented. If we fail to achieve this by voluntary action and we cannot immediately achieve anything within the framework of the European Union, will the Social Democrats be prepared to say that this is a matter of consumer protection, and therefore it is essential that we implement it for the sake of blind and partially sighted people?
ParlaMint-DK_20190502113427	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502113431	I'm very concerned that we're trying to see how far we can get. If it turns out that we can't get anywhere and we need a demand, then I have to say that I agree with the Minister that we run the risk of there being pharmaceutical companies who choose Denmark from and say: yes, the small putland up there we have to jump over, it's not that interesting because they are making this demand. It simply has to be something that the European Union together does in order for us to be able to be part of it as well, unless we can get the voluntary arrangement through. And I believe we can actually do that if the Minister is working hard on it and the rest of us support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502113511	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Please don't use a flash up there in the gallery. It can easily be photographed without it, and you can do so. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502113524	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. When the rapporteur says that it is a reasonable requirement to make, could one not also imagine that in relation to what the rapporteur says the pharmaceutical companies are going to invest in it in Denmark and that Denmark is going to be a pioneer country? That would be a victory. I would therefore like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur thinks that a joint report on this could be drawn up. Because, as I understand from the rapporteur, we will not vote in favour if it comes to the vote, but we can see that something needs to be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502113603	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502113606	I think you could talk to the pharmaceutical companies about making this change. And that is what I hear the Minister trying to get through, so I can answer that. I am completely open to the issue of making a joint report. I did not take a position here on whether we would vote green, red or yellow, because I think it is just a matter of how we can work on this in our committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502113640	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502113644	However, in general terms, in relation to the European Union, does the rapporteur not think that it is problematic that, as a country, we ourselves do not have the opportunity to draw up national guidelines and produce national legislation in this area, but that we should simply be subject to an EU directive?
ParlaMint-DK_20190502113706	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502113709	No, I don't think so. In the first place, I would like to ensure that the necessary veterinary medicinal products are also present in Denmark. That, I think, is point 1. What is then very close to it is, of course, that people should be able to read what is on it. And that is the work that I hear the Minister wants to take the lead now, and I think that is very good.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502113733	Thank you. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mrs Jane Heitmann, the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502113750	Living with a disability can be a difficult challenge, and as a society we have a special obligation to make our lives with a disability as easy and as effortless as possible. We have strong traditions in Denmark to make an effort to help the weakest and break barriers and taboos. The proposal here concerns whether or not we should impose requirements for blinding on veterinary packages. This is in every way a sympathetic proposal, especially in view of the fact that today we have a demand for precisely blankscript printed pharmaceutical packages intended for human beings. And it makes great sense that people with a visual disability can also gain knowledge about e.g. the product name and strength on an equal footing with people who have their full eyesight. As the rules are today, and as they appear with the EU regulations, no explicit decision has been taken on the use of Braille on packaging. This means that it will be difficult or perhaps almost impossible for us in Denmark to enforce any legislation in this area. On the Left side, I would like to make it clear that it is an important priority for us that people with disabilities can participate in public life and that you can live the life you want and have chosen for yourself, just as we other people who do not have a disability also live the life we have chosen for ourselves. We would very much like the Left to work further on proposals for solutions to the problem raised here. We would like to be able to find each other across political parties in a joint report, thereby calling on the government to enter into dialogue with the Commission to interpret blind words in future in the future rules in this area. I would also like to call on the government to enter into dialogue with all trade associations, preferably in the Nordic context, and thus to talk about the possibility of securing, on a voluntary basis, a script on veterinary packs for animals.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502114024	Thank you. There are no comments. Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502114033	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for putting forward the proposal that it should be possible to label medicines for animals, so that information about the medicine is also available to people who use Braille or Braille, as many know it. We are dealing with EU rules that prevent us from introducing a practical measure here in Denmark that will ensure greater accessibility for people with visual disabilities. In this case, it is about Directive 2001/82/EC which stands in the way of blind people being able to inform themselves about medicines for their animals. As there is no requirement for blinding of veterinary medicinal products throughout the EU, Member States cannot adopt their own rules on this, because it will set limits on the internal market. For the Enhedslisten, it is another example of EU rules that stand in the way of human and animal health, because the EU puts market considerations first. As you know, we are working for a breach of the European Union's internal market and for every EU country to have the right to take the lead and adopt better rules than those of the European Union. We therefore welcome the fact that the DF is taking the initiative here to call on the government to take up the matter in the Council of Ministers, just as the Folketing itself will consider addressing the European Commission and invite it to submit a proposal for the revision of Regulation 2019/6, so that it will be possible to impose requirements on the labelling of veterinary medicinal products. Then I would also like to take this opportunity to say that I think it is nice to hear the Danish People's Party support the international conventions that protect minorities and vulnerable groups. In those words, the Enhedslisten supports the motion for a resolution, and I should like to welcome it from the SF and say that they are also directly in favour of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502114218	Thank you. Then we move on to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502114224	Thank you. I think that this is a very sympathetic proposal, and I really do not know what the argument is for there to be blind words on medicinal products for human use, but not on veterinary medicinal products. That's kind of weird. I think it is very positive that the Minister will contact the industry and see if we can find a voluntary solution rather than legislation, which is therefore not possible because of EU rules either. That is why the Liberal Alliance does not support the proposal, but absolutely its intention and content.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502114301	Thank you. Then we move on to Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502114308	In the alternative, of course, we also want to help people who have difficulties and disabilities, and we also want everyone to have equal opportunities. That is why, as several people have also said today, it is a sympathetic proposal that the Danish People's Party has put forward here today. At the same time, there are some things in the proposal that mean that we have not immediately said that we will support it. This is contrary, as several people have said, to certain directives that I do not wish to go into in greater detail, and it also hampers the internal market in the European Union, which we also find problematic with the proposal. We believe that this is an important theme which the Danish People's Party outlines here, and we know, as we have also heard from other rapporteurs, that it can have consequences for the blind if they, for example, are able to do so. do not have the opportunity to understand what is on the medicine for their animals, for example. A guide dog. We would like to see a look at how to find other solutions, for example. I am pleased to hear that the Minister will go into work to find out some other solutions to this problem, which we of course take very seriously in the alternative. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502114452	Sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502114455	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. The rapporteur mentioned that there were some issues in the proposal that were problematic, and I should just like to hear from the rapporteur whether it is in substance that there is a problem in the proposal or whether it alone is that it is directly contrary to EU legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502114516	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502114520	There is nothing in the proposal that is problematic, apart from the fact that it is problematic if we are to stand alone, what other rapporteurs, including the Socialist rapporteur, I think, have said. In other words, we have to go alone in relation to a pharmaceutical industry, I do not think it would be very appropriate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502114542	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502114546	After all, there are countries that are not part of the European Union and rules on consumer protection can be adopted. I am not aware of the fact that neither veterinary medicinal products nor humane products are placed on the market in those countries, so it is certainly not the case that just because you make a rule that blind scripting should be added, all pharmaceutical companies will say that they will not market their products in Denmark. It is probably very reasonable that in a country rules can be introduced to strengthen consumer protection, regardless of the fact that some companies have to make money and may be interested in them being able to do so as cheaply as possible. It is reasonable that consumers can be protected, even if this is an additional cost to businesses.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502114625	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502114629	That is fair, but the question is whether it is realistic. It is a reasonable requirement to make, but is it realistic that the pharmaceutical industry should go in and make special, specific packages for the Danish market? Is that realistic? We believe that the battle must be fought, if you can put it that way, somewhere else. In other words, we must ensure, as the Minister has said, that it is more general to ensure that there is the same way of packing when we talk about medicines for animals and medicines for people, because there is the same need everywhere for blind people to be able to find out what is in the pack and how the medicine is used.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502114715	Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502114720	Thank you. To follow up: the rapporteur asks whether this is realistic. Yeah, that's realistic. When you can make it human, you can also make packages for animals with Braille, so of course it is realistic. I would like to hear the alternative, because the alternative rapporteur did not really mention whether the alternative has an interest in being able to land a joint report in terms of working on this forward-looking.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502114745	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502114749	We are, of course, very positive about this, and I have also heard that both the Minister and the rapporteur of the Left were also saying that this is what they want. So, of course, we are very positive about that. When I say that it is not realistic, it is because I think it is naive to think that as a small country we can say to a billion-dollar industry: now we have to do that, among other things. That is why, in the alternative, we are in favour of us being part of European cooperation, there are other reasons for this too. But that is what I mean by that is not realistic.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502114823	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502114829	Surely it is not naive that as a country, as an independent country, you have some desire to do things better than the European Union can do. It's like being a pioneering country. I would then like to hear the rapporteur's views on the principle of subsidiarity: the principle of subsidiarity must ensure that the European Union only legislates where it will be more effective than if the Member States do so themselves. And it would be effective if Denmark were to lead this. Does the rapporteur not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20190502114857	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502114900	Well, I think it would be wonderful if Denmark could lead the way in pointing out that we have a problem here. That is also what I hear the Minister say, so the Minister would like to take this up. That is also what I hear when we want to make a report. Then it is also the case that we are actually pointing out that there is a problem here and that we do not think that it is either appropriate or reasonable that it is in the way it is now. So I think that in this way we are actually leading something in a more realistic way.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502114935	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further comments. Mrs Mette Abildgaard, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502114944	Thank you. As a matter of fact, I would like to give priority to using my speaking time to send two thanks here from the platform. First of all, thank you to the Danish People's Party for having made this motion for a resolution. I think it is wonderful when resolutions are used to highlight an issue which has not been addressed and which many may not have been aware of. I think that's what happened in this case. I was simply unaware that there is a problem with the labelling of veterinary medicinal products for animals when it comes to labelling in Braille. I think this is a real problem, because we must, of course, ensure that people with a visual disability can also get information about the medicine which can have a great impact on animals, which, on the other hand, is also of great importance to those people. So I think it is a very relevant problem that is being highlighted here. So thank you to the Danish People's Party for focusing on this case. My second thanks actually go to the Minister for the way in which this resolution has been dealt with. I think that it has not just been rejected by reference to EU rules and kept it in its arms and said that there is nothing we can do about it. In fact, I think that we have gone into this very constructively and tried to reach out to a Nordic perspective to see if we can do something now and here via the Danish Medicines Agency, but also by being open to getting a European track started. I think this is extremely positive, so thank you both to the Danish People's Party for submitting the proposal and to the Minister for passing it on and not just making the easy rejection. We would also very much like to discuss further in committee how we can land a sensible text on this, if we can feel it before we suddenly stand in a parliamentary election. But I wonder if it can't be retabled on the other side of a choice, and then work can be done on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502115142	Sir. Peder Hvelplund, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502115145	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. Now the rapporteur himself mentioned that there are, like two issues that are being highlighted here. I also think that there is a third problem, namely that when we are talking about an initiative that we want to take to strengthen consumer protection, it turns out that the market is a problem. Does the rapporteur not agree that it should be the case that the consumer will always be at the top of the list? When we have a perfectly reasonable and legitimate demand that blind and partially sighted people should also have the opportunity to know what kind of medicine they are buying for their pets, for example, then the consideration for them must be over consideration of what the market may seem to be a good idea and of what might be difficult for the pharmaceutical industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502115230	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502115233	As such, I do not see that the market is the big stumbling block in this discussion. I am not aware that attempts have been made to introduce this politically and that it has then been vigorously opposed at European level. I am simply not aware of this. Perhaps the rapporteur can draw my attention to this if I am wrong. I think it makes sense to regulate this kind at European level and to help ensure that these medicines are available in Denmark and that we do not restrict the market. We are a small country and we are dependent on European decisions on a point like this.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502115303	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502115306	But even a small country may well have strong arguments, and I find it difficult to see an argument against this at first sight. I also do not know whether this would meet with great opposition in the European Union. I can only say that it has not been implemented yet. I also think it is good to work on a voluntary scheme. I just find it hard to see, if we are in a situation where it is not possible to implement it under the auspices of the European Union or through a voluntary scheme, that this alone should be the reason why we should let such a proposal fall here, because it is precisely for sensible reasons and for a degree of rationality.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502115336	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502115339	I do not think that there is any reason for such scolding on the EU system over this here and that this cannot be done until we have actually tested whether it can be done at European level and before we have tested whether there is a will for this. I also find it very difficult to see what arguments would be against this, because I think it is a logical proposal and also a proposal that is in line with the other legislation on medicinal products for human use. So let us now give it an attempt in the European system and see if it cannot be changed there.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502115403	Thank you. Then there are no more comments, and that is why it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502115419	Thank you for that, President. The reason for this motion for a resolution is, of course, one of the reasons. a question which our health rapporteur asked in relation to Question No. 156 on the position of the Minister regarding the absence of a Braille script for the blind on packages of veterinary medicinal products for animals. The Minister sought a reply from the Danish Medicines Agency, which stated that there was no requirement for Braille and that the Regulation had not opened the way for the Member States to adopt their own rules on this subject. The Minister also replied at the same time that she was open to discussing proposals for solutions. In concrete terms, the Danish People's Party proposes that Article 23 of the Order on labelling, etc. The name and strength of a medicinal product for humans and animals should also be mentioned in the heading on the outer packaging, so that blind and partially sighted persons are treated in the purchase of veterinary medicinal products, e.g. a guide dog belonging to a blind or partially sighted citizen. This is done by reference to explanations of the Charter of Fundamental Rights concerning human dignity. From this it appears that the human dignity is inviolable (·Declarations to the Charter of Fundamental Rights, Official Journal of the European Union, 14 December 2007). It must be respected and protected, in which it is stated that the recognition of human dignity and the equal and inalienable rights of all members of the human family is the basis of freedom, justice and peace in the world. Furthermore, reference is made to Article 26 on the integration of people with disabilities, which states that the Union recognises and respects the right of persons with disabilities to benefit from measures designed to ensure their autonomy... Precisely labelling of veterinary medicinal products with scripture will help to ensure both autonomy and dignity of blind and partially sighted persons and enable them to purchase veterinary medicines on their own, thereby ensuring independence from sighting citizens. It is the opinion of the proposers that the consideration of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union should outweigh the general rules of the European Union, the consideration of the internal market and the removal of barriers to trade. In addition, the labelling of veterinary medicinal products will be consistent with the principle of subsidiarity of the European Union, albeit contrary to Directive 2001/82/EC, which states in paragraph 4 that labelling schemes in the Member States may act as a barrier to the internal market. The Danish People's Party already thinks that there is an opening here. We also call on the Danish People's Party to take the matter up in the Council of Ministers, and the Danish Parliament itself should consider addressing the European Commission and calling on it to make a proposal on the possibility of imposing a requirement for the labelling of veterinary medicinal products in Braille. In the Danish People's Party, we consider it reasonable that a solution should be found with labelling with Braille on packages of veterinary medicinal products. Now we have had the debate today and I would like to thank the Enhedslisten in particular, who, after all, fully supports this proposal. I would also like to thank you for the positive response we have received from the Minister, who has promised to continue working on this. Then it is also important that we get a majority for a report, so we are sure that it is not just stranded somewhere and there is no action on it. It is, of course, important to ensure equality for people with disabilities, even when you consider that blind and partially sighted people have a guide dog, but cannot read what is written on the drugs for their guide dog. That is why we are looking forward to the committee reading and, depending on how much we reach before an election, we can take it up again after an election.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502115838	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked to speak and the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Health and the Elderly and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed. I have to postpone the sitting until 8:00. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502130000	The sitting is resumed. We are opening the negotiations, and we are opening the negotiations with the Minister for Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502130056	Thank you. Today, we must work together on two motions for resolutions on the equality of language and qualifications requirements between doctors trained in the European Union and doctors trained in third countries. I would like to start by emphasising that the government in this way fully agrees with the intention behind the motions for resolutions tabled, namely that we must ensure a high level of patient safety in Denmark, regardless of whether the treatment is carried out by health professionals trained in Denmark or healthcare professionals trained outside Denmark, whether in EU countries or in third countries. It is absolutely crucial that we as patients can be comfortable with the staff who meet us when we need treatment, and therefore there should be no doubt that foreign doctors must both be professionally skilled and have linguistic skills necessary for the treatment to take place in a fully sound manner. For all our staff in Denmark, regardless of their background, must be able to provide high-quality healthcare, and this also means being able to speak a proper Danish and communicate with patients as well as with colleagues. In this context, we should not forget that there are a great many foreign doctors in Denmark who are very skilled and who speak a good Danish and who make a difference to patients every day. And when I feel the opportunity to say so, it is because there are some of the players who have a lot of a tendency to put the same thing as if there is a doctor coming from abroad, then you cannot speak Danish, or you are professionally bad. There I think there is just a need for us to stress that this is not the case and that there are a great many skilled foreign doctors who help to ensure that Danish patients receive good treatment every day. As I have already stated a number of times, most recently in the first reading of L 219, where the government has just tabled a draft law which tightens the language requirements for foreign doctors and, above all, the requirements for the regions to shoulder their employer responsibilities and which has also been answered in relation to questions 1 to L 219, which the committee has tabled, it is already the case that the regions can carry out a language test and make language requirements for doctors coming from other EU countries. It is also the case that it is not enough that you can do something on paper, but you must also be able to do so in reality, and that is the case, both when you employ Danish doctors and when you employ foreign doctors, that there must then be both strong linguistic and professional skills. And it is the regions, as employers, that are responsible for ensuring that those competences are present and that there is also a match between what is written on paper and what the doctor can do in the real world. It is also the regions which are responsible as appointing authority for limiting or interrupting the employment relationship altogether if it turns out that the doctor is either a Danish doctor or a foreign doctor and cannot do what is expected and required in order to provide a high quality patient-proof treatment. Despite the otherwise fairly clear position of responsibility that we have, where the regions take responsibility for the employer and also the responsibility for ensuring adequate linguistic competence of foreign doctors, one must unfortunately just say that we see examples of "I also think we are all being asked about the patients who have not been able to understand or communicate with the health care professional they have been met by. Unfortunately, this testifies to the fact that not everyone in the regions has adequately assumed responsibility and ensured the necessary linguistic skills of foreign doctors. It sometimes makes it insecure to be a patient, and that is obviously not good enough, and therefore there is good reason for us to tighten up on the legislation, as we do with Bill 219, which has been dealt with first in this Chamber. The initiative contained in draft law 219, which has also received relatively broad support from the rapporteur, is, after all, an initiative which stems from the discussion on which a majority of parties also agreed on the basis of the motion for a resolution, which happens to be also called B 136, which was in the Parliamentary Chamber last spring, and on which we both the Socialists, the Radical Left, the Alternative and the Government Parties agreed that it was important that we tightened up the linguistic competences of health professionals. L 219 is an important step in the right direction, but I would also like to emphasise that the government would like to look at whether there is more we can do to ensure the linguistic competence of foreign doctors, and the government is, as I have also said, positive both in a consultation in the Folketing and also in the first reading of L 219, in introducing proportional language control for EU doctors. It is also in recognition that since we dealt with B 136 last year, we can see that Danske Regions have changed their attitude to national language control, and they are now actively asking for us to step in from the centre and make language demands, perhaps also in recognition of the fact that they themselves have not taken up the task sufficiently. Of course, we have to deal with that, and so does the government. However, I also have a need to stress that the government continues not to support an inflexible solution, and that is what is being proposed in the resolutions we are debating today. It is the government's opinion that there is a marked difference between whether you as an Italian qualified doctor apply to Denmark and get a six-month PhD appointment as a researcher or in a position where you do not have patient contact, and then you are employed in a position with patient contact. And if we do not have that flexibility, we also run the risk that the Danish health service will miss out on both the professional skills and new ideas that doctors trained in other countries can also contribute. That is why I would also like to point out, as I did in the first reading of L 219, that the language requirements which the Danish Regions, according to their response to the hearings, want do not correspond to what is highlighted in the motions for resolutions today. The Danish Regions have also stated in writing that the present test in Danish 3, which the two proposing parties are proposing to introduce, is not suitable for the purpose. It is therefore Danske Regioner, who is all the other equal appointing authority for our health professionals, who brings the written feedback in their hearing response, and so I hope that when discussing the resolutions today, the parties of the Danish Parliament will consider that this is not a solution that the regions see as part of the response to how we ensure in the future that doctors, nurses and other foreign-trained health professionals employed in the Danish health service also speak a proper and understandable Danish language so that patients can be safe about it. We just have to say, as I said before, that there are some places in Denmark where today we see both the challenges of attracting a sufficient number of Danish-educated doctors, where we have medical coverage challenges, and where we also have to be careful that we do not strain that we can recruit the doctors that are needed. As a government, we have taken the initiative to train far more doctors and also to ensure a more appropriate distribution of doctors across the country, both by establishing Master's degree programmes in medicine in both Esbjerg and out in Region Sjælland, but also by making coherent training courses many more places in the country, so that we have moved the Danish doctors while they may be more mobile and still away are in education and have not taken root and have grown firm in the big cities. However, this does not change the fact that we are in a situation here and now, where we need skilled foreign doctors in order to be able to run the health care we know in Denmark, and therefore it is no use putting unnecessarily square regulatory obstacles in the way of the flexible recruitment of foreign labour that we need. It is no use extending the authorization process significantly and making it less attractive for skilled foreign doctors to apply for authorisation in Denmark. Patients will suffer, and Denmark will also suffer as an attractive place to do research in the field of health for the benefit of patients and new pioneering treatments, which will then no longer be developed in Denmark, where it sometimes also interacts with foreign doctors. It is also the case that Denmark is obliged to automatically recognise the evidence of formal qualifications received by EU doctors if they comply with the minimum requirements that we have agreed jointly within the EU circle. It is basically about our European cooperation also recognising each other's educations, so that EU doctors seeking employment in Denmark, or Danish doctors seeking employment in another EU country, are not met with disproportionately additional requirements. It is also about the fact that the agreement we have made together makes a number of professional demands on what can be done at least as a doctor. When we make these demands together in the EU context, it is also because we have an in-built confidence that as Member States we will take care of quality and content and duration in education, just as we have agreed, and therefore there is a marked difference between the rules that apply to EU doctors and the rules that apply to doctors, for example. comes from Pakistan, where we in Denmark have no opportunity whatsoever to influence the rules that you have there. And that is why I also think it is natural that we should be able to distinguish in legislation between doctors coming from third countries and from EU countries. Therefore, it would also be contrary to our common EU rules and the directive if Denmark introduced requirements for medical examinations and evaluation of EU doctors as a condition for obtaining authorisation, as presented in B 136, and therefore the government cannot support that part. However, I would like to stress that, when we do not make further professional demands from the central point of view, this does not mean that we are relaxing the professional requirements of EU doctors. In fact, it is the employer's responsibility to ensure that professional qualifications are available, both when making a specific appointment, but also afterwards if it turns out that the doctor does not possess the professional skills that can be expected. Then it is the employer who must ensure either the necessary qualification in relation to the actual employment or, ultimately, the termination of the employment relationship. Therefore, it is not only a question of what rules apply on paper, but also the employer's responsibility, which is important to ensure that patients meet skilled employees, whether they are trained in Denmark or outside the country's borders. I also have a clear expectation that if the regions choose to interrupt the employment relationship, they will also inform the Board for Patient Safety, so that the Board can carry out its supervisory task. There is also an important task there, and I have to say that this has not been done enough today. The Recognition Directive opens up the way for us to establish a check on whether an EU doctor possesses the language skills we consider necessary for the function of a doctor in Denmark, and there I have replied to the European Parliament Committee on Question 176 that it is the assessment that it would be too far-reaching to impose the same requirements as are imposed on third country doctors. This does not change the fact that we, as a government, are also looking at how we can introduce a national language control for EU doctors, so that we ensure that all doctors working in Denmark can also have a sufficient Danish to take care of patients. That is also why I have asked the Attorney-General to examine what level it would be natural for us to go to, so that we both stay within the framework of the recognition directive and ensure that foreign doctors can have sufficient Danish knowledge and that language control is, of course, also legal. So the government cannot support the motions for resolutions tabled. They are, on the one hand, contrary to our EU legal obligations, and, on the other hand, they will disproportionately restrict the recruitment opportunities of the regions, which ultimately threatens to affect Danish patients. These conditions have not changed either since an almost identical motion for a resolution was tabled last year, nor does it change the fact that foreign doctors in Denmark must both be skilled professionally and speak an adequate Danish. But we do not believe that the government will ensure that B 135 and B 136 do so. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502131332	Thank you very much, Minister. A brief comment, sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502131337	Thank you for that and thank you for your speech to the Minister. First of all, I am a little surprised that the Minister says that there has been a perception that foreign doctors cannot speak Danish, that it was a general problem and that it has been expressed. That has not been my view. I have not heard either from the Minister or when we have discussed the matter here in the Danish Parliament, either during questions in the Chamber or in consultation that someone has expressed it. Everyone has just stressed that it is extremely important and that it is good that there are foreign doctors working in Denmark. The point is that we must, of course, be able to impose identical requirements on languages and professional qualifications. Now the Minister himself uses the example that, if we talk about an Italian doctor, there may be a difference between working in a research position or working with patient contact. That's absolutely right. But what this proposal is about is precisely that we should equate the Italian doctor with a doctor from the United States, because what is crucial is not where you have taken your education. What is crucial is what languages and qualifications you have. That is why I do not quite understand why there should be the difference between whether you have taken your education in an EU country or you have taken your education in a non-EU country. For within the European Union there are also differences in the training requirements that are required. It should therefore be quite natural, in terms of patient safety, that it is the same requirement that it is the professional qualifications that are essential and not where education has necessarily been taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502131502	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502131503	That is also why we in the European Union have agreed on a directive on recognition, setting minimum requirements for the professional content of medical education. It is, of course, because in this way we also have confidence that when we agree together, that there must be both a certain length and that it must have a certain content, there must be a gravitational, also professionally, in our training courses, it also provides the basis for our mutual recognition. This means, of course, that, both from the government and from the agreements we have made, we clearly believe that there is a difference between the rules which a Swedish doctor is subject to and what a Pakistani doctor is subject to. And I know that Enhedslisten believes that a Pakistani doctor and a Swedish doctor should be subject to the same requirements. We do not think this is reasonable on the part of the government. In fact, we believe that there is a difference between whether we agree something within the EU circle and create a professional framework for minimum requirements, or whether we get a doctor in from Pakistan, where Denmark does not have an opportunity to make demands on what the training should have contained. But when it comes to being skilled, both linguistically and professionally, there is basically not the difference, and that is also why, with L 219, we also make the responsibility we have as an employer to ensure that when you recruit foreign doctors, they can also talk to patients and with colleagues in the Danish healthcare system.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502131614	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502131619	First of all, I think it is important to emphasise that the regime we have today has proved to be a problem with patient safety. The Board of Patient Safety has itself been involved in pointing out that in some hospitals it has been a problem precisely because there has been an overweight of foreign doctors who had no knowledge of the Danish health care system. We could avoid this situation if we ensured that there were the same requirements for languages and qualifications, and that is why I again do not fully understand why there should be the difference between where education has been taken. For what is crucial is that language and qualification requirements are met. After all, the patient does not care where the doctor has taken his education or where the doctor comes from, only language and qualifications are in order. That is why I do not see why it should be particularly square and inflexible to say that we have similar rules, because we already have those rules. After all, they are already being enforced against a group of doctors, namely those coming from third countries. Why can't you just standardize the demands so that they become identical wherever you've taken your education?
ParlaMint-DK_20190502131717	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502131719	The reason why we in the government have made L 219, where there is a stronger demand for languages, is, of course, that we are seeing problems today. We see that the regions have not been good enough as employers to demand, for example. language. As I have also replied to question 1 to Bill 219, it is of course the case that the regions already have the opportunity to carry out a language test, low language control. We can only see that it has not been used sufficiently, and that is the reason why, of course, we are sharpening up in this area, so that as a patient and as a colleague we can be confident that foreign doctors employed in the Danish health service also speak a sufficient Danish. I just want to say that we in the government strongly disagree with the Enhedslisten that it is the same rules that will apply to a Pakistani doctor and a Swedish doctor. I also have to say that the inflexibility is seriously going to have a consequence for patients in Denmark, because everything else just has more Nordic doctors and more EU doctors than we have doctors from, for example. Pakistan. And that is why, with square rules, we will ultimately risk damaging patient safety.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502131818	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502131820	Thank you for the Minister's speech. I must say that we in the Danish People's Party are very surprised that the Minister does not recognise to a greater extent what great challenges there are in this area. We have seen that departments have been shut down precisely because of language challenges and communication with the patient and the patient's relatives. In the DR documentary we have also seen what great challenges there are when you cannot speak Danish. And that is a great inconvenience to patient safety, so I am not aware that the Minister will not put the area on an equal footing, since doctors or specialist doctors are not required to come from EU/EEA countries that are otherwise. So I would like to hear from the Minister: does the Minister really not think that we need to do more in this area? Because these proposals will, of course, help to increase patient safety for the benefit of patients, and these are the ones we must have at the heart.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502131929	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502131930	Yes, the government fully acknowledges that there are challenges. There are too many foreign doctors who do not speak enough Danish, and that is why we have tabled the bill called 219, which has been dealt with first in this Chamber and which I also hope the Danish People's Party will support. That is precisely because there has to be tightening up. When we look at also making national demands, but which must be EU-friendly, it is because we want to take a greater responsibility nationally for foreign doctors in Denmark to speak a proper Danish so that you can communicate with patients and with your colleagues. So the government has taken initiatives and will take initiatives. The question is whether the resolutions we are discussing today will benefit the situation in Denmark. And it is our clear assessment that they will not. Firstly, because it will mean that, in relation to a Pakistani doctor and a Swedish doctor, it is the same and you have to make the same demands. We in the government believe that we need to be nuanced and have flexibility as well. Secondly, because the requirements are not met in relation to EU legislation. Thirdly, because they are enormously square and equate you with having a six-month research stay with whether you are employed and have patient contact. And we want the government to have some flexible rules that distinguish between whether it is a skilled foreign researcher who comes on a short stay in Denmark and does not have patient contact because then there is probably less need for you to be able to fluent Danish or whether you are employed in a position where you just have patient contact. And that is what these motions for resolutions by no means take into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502132051	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502132053	I find it incredibly regrettable that the government does not see any further need in this area. And then I know that the Minister says that the regions can do a language test. But the Minister also said that this is the responsibility of the employers, and I would like to hear: does the Minister think that the regions have failed their responsibilities in relation to this?
ParlaMint-DK_20190502132120	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502132121	In other words, when we have tabled L 219 on the part of the government, it is because we do not think that the system is good enough today. That is why it is not right for Mrs Karina Adsbøl to say that the government will do no more. We will. That is why we have tabled a legislative proposal to tighten up the language requirements, and that is why we are taking the initiative to make some national rules on what should at least be linguistic. It is just important that there is flexibility in those rules, so that a distinction is made between whether you are employed in a position where you are in contact with patients or whether you are in a short-term research position or are employed in a position where you do not have patient contact. Today's motions for resolutions do not take this into account at all, which is why they risk doing more harm than good to patients in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502132203	Mrs Karin Gaardsted with a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502132206	Thank you. I am wondering whether there is a register of doctors within the European Union, so that we can avoid hiring a doctor who has either lost his or her authorisation or has otherwise made himself so good as not to want him in his or her own country at least. I know there have been problems in the Nordic countries with that, but does the Minister know if there is such a register, so that we in Denmark can avoid hiring doctors that other countries do not want?
ParlaMint-DK_20190502132244	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502132245	Yes, and this is a very relevant question put by the rapporteur, precisely in relation to the mutual obligation that we have to warn other countries if we have health professionals who do not meet the professional standards. There is an alert system among the EU countries which, unfortunately, is not as developed as we would like, and we are working on that. There is also a Nordic early warning system, based on the Arjeplog agreement, which has in fact been renewed and expanded further, so that we, among the Nordic countries, also help each other even more to avoid exporting poor health professionals from country to country, because we are not good enough to give an indication, for example. au thorisation restrictions and other restrictions between countries. The Nordic system I have a clear hope that, as we have reached a new agreement, we will now also be further developed, just as we are working on the ongoing development of the European system.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502132340	Mrs. Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502132342	I know, of course, that most foreign doctors in Denmark come from the other Nordic countries, and well for that. When the Minister says that there is an alert system within the European Union, but this is not entirely developed, is it the Minister's view that the early warning system is working or that it does not work?
ParlaMint-DK_20190502132404	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502132405	Well, it works, but it can get better, and I would like to reply to that in writing. There are also variations in how much you give notice of it has also been part of a discussion. For example: The British are warning much more; they also consider that it is a reason for an alert if you have forgotten to pay your quota to your union, as I remember the case. We would say that was far below a de minimis threshold in Denmark, compared to the fact that one had to be foresighted. That is why there is also room for us to be able to make the European early warning system stronger together than it is today. But it is important that we have it built up and have something like standing on and working on.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502132442	With that, we thank the Minister and then we start the rapporteur's line. We start with the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mrs Karin Gaardsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502132503	Thank you very much. Thank you to the Danish People's Party and to the Enhedslisten for having tabled the resolutions here which are very relevant. All Danes must be guaranteed good and safe treatment in the Danish healthcare system if they become ill. This is an absolutely crucial part of our social system. If you as a patient are to receive a treatment that makes you safe and where patient safety is high, it is basically a prerequisite that you can understand what health care professionals are saying and that they can understand what you are saying. One can be very clever, but if one cannot communicate with patients, mistakes and, at least, insecurity can occur which we as a society cannot accept. I think we are all aware that the Danish health service needs skilled foreign doctors, and they should be very welcome here in Denmark. But it goes without saying that, as a society, we must, of course, make sure that their professional level is high enough and that they can talk to their patients and colleagues. In particular, there are many small hospitals on the periphery of Denmark that need foreign doctors because the Danish doctors do not want to work there. That is, for example, the case. on Lolland and Thy, and there is one more thing that matters, namely that the doctor you have or the other health care professional you have may not understand the dialect you speak. That is why we in the Socialist Group also believe that there is good reason to look at whether higher language and competence requirements cannot be imposed on EU doctors, just as doctors from third countries already do. We have noted that the umbrella organisation Danske Patients as well as the Medical Association have said that doctors from EU countries also have to meet language requirements in the Danish healthcare system. We believe that a key language requirement could also make it easier for the regions. That is why we support the intention of the proposals and we look forward to further committee reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502132726	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502132729	Thank you for that and thank the rapporteur for an incredibly positive speech. I'd like to sign for that. That is why I should just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that the rapporteur agrees that it is a national responsibility to ensure that both language and qualification requirements are adequate, so that this will not be something that will have to be left alone in the regions. So that it is not only an employment responsibility in the regions, but that it is precisely this task that should follow a national standard, so that we ensure that when doctors work with authorisation in Denmark, it is according to some standards that we have agreed from the national level.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502132807	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502132808	After all, we have to be realistic that this is also an EU problem. Because it is true, as the Minister says, that there are some agreements within the European Union, and of course we have to deal with them. In some of the things I read to prepare myself for this, there was information that the demand from the European Union in a special thesis was 3 years of teaching in this area, while the Danish side demands 6 years. And, of course, there is a huge gap there, which it is not satisfactory that we should just sit and watch as a country. Because how can we get this to run in a Danish hospital if it is the case that there is too much difference between the doctors standing next to each other? Then the questioner asked about it with key demands. I think we just have to face up to the fact that we will need more foreign doctors in Denmark, and when we do, perhaps we should also look at how we can help the regions to ensure that the basic work is in place. Key language requirements and quality requirements could help the regions. But I agree that it is out there in the regions. They're the ones hiring.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502132934	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502132935	When I ask, of course, it is also because the rapporteur's party colleague Flemming Møller Mortensen, who is the health rapporteur, has said to Denmark's Radio: "It is not good enough for the safety of patients at all. We need a national authority in which foreign doctors are tested on their professional skills and linguistic skills," says Health Rapporteur Flemming Møller Mortensen (S). I should just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that this is also the Socialist position. And then I would like to hear, because now I have some doubts as to how the Socialists actually feel about this motion for a resolution, whether you agree with what is in the motion for a resolution that a national standard should be introduced for it or whether the rapporteur is not of that opinion.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502133017	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502133018	I think, in my speech, that I have supported Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen, and I do, of course, because it is a matter of great concern to the Socialists that we should put the safety and safety of patients at the top when it comes to foreign doctors. So I say today that we support the motions for resolutions, and we will also cooperate with the Minister on this, because we must ensure that patient safety is in order also with regard to foreign doctors and that we can understand what they are saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502133049	There are further questions, namely from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502133052	Thank you. Thank you, too, for supporting the intentions of the proposal. The reason I am taking the floor anyway is that I think the Socialist rapporteur speaks as if this proposal is about not having foreign doctors. After all, this is about the doctors being able to speak Danish, and it is also about the doctors being able to understand Danish wherever they come from. Therefore, just following up the rapporteur on the Enhedslisten's question, I just need the rapporteur to confirm that this is a national responsibility, so that we have to ensure nationally that the doctors working in Denmark know the Danish language and that they can also understand the Danish language.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502133146	It's sir. Peder Hvelplund, rapporteur for the Enhedslisten, if that is to be quite correct. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502133149	That's how you can choke on it sometimes. Thank you for the question. I hope that I have not said here that this is about anything other than being able to speak and understand Danish and have the necessary quality requirements. I hope I have not expressed anything else, because that is, of course, what the proposal is about. And yes, I can confirm that we think we should work towards making some national demands on these two areas, because it will help the regions in their further work, since foreign doctors will continue to come to Denmark and thank you for that! That's good. Otherwise, we wouldn't have enough doctors.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502133229	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502133231	Thank you for that and thank you to the President for just helping with the name. I shall then hear the Socialist rapporteur whether the rapporteur thinks that this is something that we should decide for ourselves in Denmark and that the EU should stay out of it, in relation to how we organise ourselves in Denmark, when we place national language requirements on the doctors employed in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502133300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502133300-2	So, as we can see today, it does not work well enough in Denmark, and that is why we have to do something about it here, and I have also said so from up here, because we are not satisfied with the state of things today. We need to work together with the Ministry to get this right so that it is easier for patients, it is easier for doctors, it is easier for the regions, and that must be what the work is about. Whether we can do it alone in Denmark, yes, I do not really see that there is anything wrong with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502133335	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502133340	Thank you for the floor. As I remember last year's debate, all parties agreed with the intention behind the motion for a resolution, namely that doctors working in Denmark should speak an understandable Danish, and they should also have Danish knowledge, so that they understand what the patient is saying. It goes both ways. I have just a little doubt that I have heard the ping pong that has been in this Chamber. Will the rapporteur not confirm that the resolution as it stands here cannot be voted in favour of by the Social Democrats because it goes against our EU legal obligations? Will the rapporteur confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20190502133420	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502133422	That is how it has developed in Denmark since we had the last resolution a year ago, if I remember correctly. In fact, it calls more for us to intervene now than it has ever done before, and that is why we may have to work down in the European Union to change these rules, so that we can do it in Denmark. I would say that the Social Democrats are in favour of tightening the requirements in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502133454	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502133456	I think the rapporteur has simply misunderstood my question. I am not quite sure what the rapporteur means when the rapporteur says that something has changed in Denmark. After all, this is also about what is going on in the European Union. I would just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that the motions for resolutions we are debating here are against our EU legal obligations and that, therefore, the Social Democrats cannot support the resolutions we are debating. Can the rapporteur confirm that, in the form in which the motions for resolutions are tabled, the Social Democrats cannot support them, so that we vote green if, for example, we vote green? Should vote on them in five minutes?
ParlaMint-DK_20190502133540	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502133542	When I say that it is more needed than ever, it is because there are more foreign doctors in Denmark than there has ever been and they come from all sorts of places in the world. Some come from third countries, and we can do so what to say about steering with the tools we have for it. Where the problem is, when EU doctors do not have enough Danish language to do so. I have been promised that we can support this proposal and thus vote green in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502133617	Thank you. So there is a brief comment from Mrs May-Britt Kattrup, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502133621	Thank you. When Mrs Karin Gaardsted says that you want to increase the demands of doctors in the European Union, you are also saying that you want to go against the EU recognition directive and against the EU rules on free movement. Is that what Mrs Karin Gaardsted wants? Or does Mrs Karin Gaardsted confuse demands with increased control, because it turns out that we can probably do more control? However, if the rapporteur wants to see increased demands, it goes against the EU's rules on free movement, as I said.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502133702	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502133704	But that does not mean that we cannot work to get it tightened up, and I think we have to do that. I recognise that there are rules in the European Union that say that we can do this and that, but that does not mean that those rules should apply forever and ever. So we need to work towards ensuring better patient safety in Denmark, and we therefore need to work with language and quality, even if you come from another EU country. Perhaps not so much Sweden, but there may be many others, Romania, Hungary, where we do not really know the quality as well as we do from the other Nordic countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502133741	Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502133743	Then I would ask the rapporteur to clarify whether what the rapporteur wants is to increase the Danish requirements or the EU minimum requirements that are mutually recognised or whether it is the control that one wants to tighten up.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502133800	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502133802	Well, it almost follows from each other. If we are to work with it on Danish soil, we also have to work with it down in the EU to lift it there too. This must be the same problem as many other EU countries also have doctors from other EU countries. So we must move towards tightening the requirements when you are a foreign doctor in a Danish hospital, whether you come from a third country or from an EU country. We just need to make sure that patients understand what the doctor is saying, and we need to be sure that the doctor understands what the patient is saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502133834	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Pernille Schnoor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502133838	I now come to the point because now I also have doubts as to what the rapporteur actually thinks. Because one thing is what you want to work towards. We can agree on the intentions of these proposals, I think we can all do that, namely that it should be the best doctors we have and that it is incredibly important to be able to communicate with patients in an understandable language so that patient safety is in order. But how can the Social Democrats say yes? Is this how I understand it, in other words, that the Social Democrats are saying yes to these two motions for resolutions in exactly the form they are in here?
ParlaMint-DK_20190502133920	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502133922	We say yes to it, as Mr. Peder Hvelplund quoted from the Socialist health rapporteur that we are in favour of tightening the requirements and that we need a national centre working on these things so that we can have a smoother working environment in the regions and ensure better patient safety and also better safety for patients.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502133952	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502133954	However, I just have to say that I find that the rapporteur responds a little along the lines of what is being asked. For now several questions have been asked and I also asked just before whether the rapporteur agrees to this, as the motions for resolutions lay down here. Because that is something EU law. It is about the European Union and the premises that are in relation to it. What the rapporteur says is something else, that is, it is something else, and it is not something that lies in this motion for a resolution. So does the Social Democrats say yes to the wording of these two motions for resolutions as they stand here?
ParlaMint-DK_20190502134037	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502134039	We say yes to the intention of these motions for resolutions, and that is also what I said in my speech. I also heard the Minister say that there are some doors that can be opened where you can investigate more, and that is what we will go in and do in the committee work that will follow.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502134054	With this, we thank the Socialist rapporteur. Then we have reached Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502134104	Thank you. If you are wondering why it is the disability rapporteur who is standing here on the platform, and not the health rapporteur, then I can say that this is because our health rapporteur is out on the motorcycle to set a world record. In the Danish People's Party, we are pleased to be able to table these resolutions together with Enhedslisten, which aim to ensure Danish patients against being treated by foreign doctors who are either unable to communicate in a satisfactory Danish or unable to understand the Danish language. In the Danish People's Party we consider it important to put the patient at the centre and that it is important that patient safety is at the top. The doctor should be able to understand the patient as a patient, and the doctor should be able to understand the patient. It can't be that you as a Dane have to bring an interpreter. At one point I met someone who had been connected to the health system, who had received a letter in the mailbox or into his e-Boks, saying that he was going to study at the hospital, and asked if he needed an interpreter. He had to cross off the question and write that he would need interpreter if the doctor did not speak Danish. This is simply one of the experiences of patients in the Danish health system. Doctors from outside the EU and the EEA must go through a comprehensive application process, but the same requirements are not imposed on doctors and specialists from EU and EEA countries. The reason for this is, of course, the free movement of labour and automatic recognition of qualifications. In early spring, DR could uncover how bad things are in many hospital departments in Denmark, where there are doctors who often have to consult nurses about the treatment of patients and who have simply not passed examinations which are at the same professional level as in Denmark. The issue revealed, among other things, that doctors had to a large extent been allowed to continue to work, even if they had not passed professional tests in Denmark, and in addition to these doctors who have barely completed the tests with a bottom score. At Slagelse Hospital a whole department had to stop for the treatment of acute patients, and all this suggests that some foreign doctors' lack of skills may also have cost human lives. Is this really the kind of relationship we want for our patients? We do not think so in the Danish People's Party. In Sweden, a language test is required for doctors to be able to operate in Swedish hospitals, and of course we also have to have that in Denmark. Patients usually feel very bad when they are hospitalized, which is why they are hospitalized and therefore it is incredibly important that communication is understandable. We cannot ask patients or their relatives to play guessing games when a foreign doctor, for example, is under pressure. ask for symptoms or account for a course of treatment. This is totally unacceptable. We must set clear, professional standards and also follow up language skills. We must make demands on language skills, and we must ensure that Danish patients do not become guinea pigs in a hospital where language is not controlled. The DR documentary went to a Romanian university to train more doctors for Denmark, and there they also examined the quality of education and rumors that one could buy oneself for a medical examination. In Denmark the program follows 45-year-old Søren, who had his health destroyed in a surgical department with major linguistic, cultural and professional problems. We also follow in the documentary a number of patient courses. Among other things, the DR broadcast in the first programme is close to, among other things. Slagelse Hospital based on the need to stop the treatment of acute patients. We therefore believe that this resolution is extremely important, and we must say from the Danish People's Party that we believe that it is something that should be decided at national level. We are an independent country and we should not have rules pulled over our heads by the European Union, which undermine our patient safety. That is why we are pleased to be able to present this motion for a resolution today. I would also like to say that I am extremely pleased with the speech by the Socialist rapporteur, who said that they can also support the resolution before us today. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502134609	Thank you to Mrs Karina Adsbøl. There are no brief comments. Then it is Mrs Jane Heitmann from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502134619	Thank you. The two motions for resolutions, B 135 and B 136, which we are discussing here, are virtually identical to previous motions for resolutions tabled by the Enhedslisten of May 2018, which, funny enough, were also called B 136. Now Enhedslisten has joined forces with the Danish People's Party and retabled resolutions, but now divided into two. One that deals with language requirements for doctors from EU and EEA countries, and one that deals with qualifications and tests of doctors from EU and EEA countries. That is why my speech will be very much a repetition of what I said earlier from the platform. I can also reveal that the Left has not changed its position since May 2018. We support, for example: not the proposal on equal language requirements for doctors from EU countries and third world countries, because this is contrary to the EU's legal obligations. But we share Enhedslisten's concern about patient safety if doctors and patients cannot communicate in a clear and clear Danish language, just as both the professional and linguistic qualifications of foreign doctors must of course be in order, as I also expressed last year. For this must and must be the case: regardless of the doctor's national background, one must speak a Danish language so that the patient can safely put his life in the hands of the health care professional that the regions have chosen to employ. It is precisely the regions that play a central role here, because it is not us at Christiansborg who employ staff. It is the responsibility of the regions to ensure that the staff employed have the necessary linguistic and medical skills. And hand to heart: language skills have all too often lagged behind, and that is simply not good enough. From this point of view, we in the Left are not reluctant to see whether we can introduce language controls for EU doctors. However, it is essential for us to stay within the framework of the recognition directive, just as it is essential that there is proportionality in a possible model. The Minister for Health has already taken the initiative to contact the Chamber Attorney to identify the possibilities for a proportional language test by EU doctors, and we on the Left fully support this. I can then understand from the rapporteur's speech that I have just heard from the Danish People's Party that one wants a language test according to Swedish model. That is exactly what the government is proposing. So why not just put forward a motion for a resolution which is instead about the Swedish model, instead of putting forward a resolution that goes as far as what we see today. It's a mystery to me. It is also crucial for us in the Left that the medical coverage agreement, which all parties supported, stressed that patients should understand linguistically the information they receive from the health professionals of the regions, and that they should be understood. Yes, it's people that it's all about, and that's why it's important that you have clear and equal communication. Last week we dealt with a bill here in the Parliamentary Chamber which clarifies the responsibility of the managers for the linguistic competence to be in order, just as the medical competences must of course be. Because there is no discussion: the regions must ensure that doctors have the linguistic skills appropriate to the task to be solved. And it is clear that if you are to do research, it may not be as necessary for you to speak Danish at the same level as is required in medical-patient contact. There is a lot going on in the regions on the language front, and I really welcome the fact that there are regions offering mentoring programmes to foreign doctors and language consultants who follow the development of the language skills of the individual doctor. I mentioned earlier in my rapporteur's speech that the medical coverage agreement is absolutely essential, because if we do, as the Enhedslisten and the Danish People's Party propose, equate requirements for language competence and have the same tests for qualifications for doctors from EU and EEA and third countries, then we will be at odds with the EU recognition directive on professional qualifications, and this will be so difficult for us, just as we will be at odds with the directive, if Denmark, as something completely new, introduces the requirements proposed by the Enhedslisten and the Danish People's Party, namely medical examinations and evaluation for EU doctors as a condition for obtaining authorisation. We in Denmark need foreign labour, including health professionals, if we are to counter the challenges of medical coverage. I would like to stress that we already have a great many skilled foreign doctors in Denmark who, together with their Danish colleagues, contribute an effort every day, and I would like to thank you for that. The Left cannot support the motions for resolutions, but we support ensuring a clear indication that foreign doctors who are employed in Denmark with a function such as this. involving patient contact, must be able to communicate in an understandable Danish, so the doctor and patient have the best conditions for a successful course of treatment. I should like to welcome the Radical Left and say that the motion for a resolution cannot be supported from that point of view either.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502135158	I would like to thank the rapporteur for this. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502135203	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. Now the rapporteur spoke a lot about language requirements, but some of what I think is the most important thing in this is precisely the requirements for qualifications. And it is precisely on the basis of the very unfortunate cases in which we have seen that there have been some departments which have been burdened by the fact that there has been a great deal of foreign labour with low professional qualifications. Again, I must stress that fortunately there are plenty of well-qualified foreign doctors working in Denmark, and we are very pleased about that. But we've had a problem with it. I cannot fully understand the rapporteur's view that it should be the country in which you have taken your education that is crucial. What determines this must be the qualification requirement. Already today we have several foreign doctors working in Denmark, including doctors coming from third countries, so we have up to 800 doctors coming from third countries, and they have gone through the approval process that is today. Why can we not do this in relation to doctors coming from EU countries, precisely to ensure patient safety, so that these are the same standards that we set, no matter where you have taken your education?
ParlaMint-DK_20190502135312	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502135313	It is the case that when you are part of a community, and we are as a member of the European Union, there are rules of the game in that community. And we have said yes to the rule of play called the recognition directive, which means that there are some requirements for the recognition directive for doctors coming from the European Union, and we have to comply with them. Having said that, in the end, it does not change the fact that it is the responsibility of the regions to ensure that the medical staff they employ have exactly the right qualifications for the job to be filled. Perhaps it has sometimes lagged a little behind in the regions in fully fulfilling that responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502135401	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502135403	But we know that today there is also a huge difference between the demands we make on specialist training in Denmark and the minimum standards laid down in the recognition directive; there may be up to 3 years difference in length of training. The Patient Safety Board itself points out that they do not check the level of training of doctors who are looking for it and who come from EU countries. And that means that the regions will be put in a totally unfair situation. How will they be able to examine the level of training of doctors who are already in need of doctors? It would be helpful if we could say that we have the same standard and we make the same demands: whether you have taken your education in Denmark, in a third country or in an EU country, it is your standards that we set in relation to professionalism and language.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502135450	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502135451	Well, for me, it is absolutely crucial that the regions are aware that it is they as operators who are responsible for ensuring that the staff employed have the right qualifications for the job to be filled. And this is true whether we speak medical qualifications or whether we speak language qualifications. It is and remains the responsibility of the regions that the staff they employ also have the right qualifications to fill a given job.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502135522	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502135526	Thank you. The rapporteur speaks almost as if she is a European in the heart and not a Dane in the heart. This is one of the things that we're dealing with here. to align language requirements, and this is about our patient safety. That is why it is incomprehensible to me that the Left here is so bombastic in relation to these proposals. Does the rapporteur think it is important for patient safety that doctors working in Denmark can speak Danish and also understand Danish?
ParlaMint-DK_20190502135603	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502135606	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502135607	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502135610	Now the rapporteur mentioned that I had said something in my speech about Sweden. Yes, I referred to Sweden in relation to language tests and that it works. Of course, we must have that in Denmark too. But it's also about what Mr. Peder Hvelplund said, namely about qualifications and education. So, in addition to the fact that the Left does not support the excellent motions for resolutions tabled by the Danish People's Party and the Enhedslisten, what does the rapporteur intend to do in the future? For the rapporteur keeps saying that it is the responsibility of the regions, but we can only note that once again the regions have not fulfilled their responsibilities in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502135650	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502135651	It is completely incomprehensible to me that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, on the one hand, can stand here in the chair and speak for a Swedish model proposed by the government. We in the Left support this, and I think it is a very good idea to work according to the model they have in Sweden, and see if we can also have such a model implemented in Denmark and also here with a national and proportional language test. And it is completely incomprehensible to me that the Danish People's Party, on the other hand, together with the Enhedslisten, is tabling a motion for a resolution which points in a completely different direction, which is far more far-reaching. But we must then understand from the rapporteur's own speech here from the platform that what is really dreamed of is the Swedish model. Why do we not just say it as it is, namely that we support the government's proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20190502135743	Thank you. There is no possibility of further questions from the questioner, although the first reply was very brief. On the other hand, we now move on to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502135758	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance believes that patient safety is above all else, and that is why it is of course also crucial that we understand what a doctor says to us and that we can communicate with the doctor in a safe manner. So it seems that the regions have not in all cases fulfilled this responsibility. It is of course the case that whatever demands are made, it is the responsibility of an employer, here in the regions, to check and check that employees also meet the demands that have been made. And we must, of course, meet our mutual recognition requirements within the European Union. Still away, however, it is an employer's responsibility to ensure that employees have the competences they have to have. That is why I am also pleased that last Friday we first dealt with a draft law, L 219, which precisely clarifies the responsibility of employers, i.e. of the regions, in order to ensure the necessary linguistic competence of their employees. And I am also pleased that the government will look further at the problem and look at the possibility of introducing proportional language controls, including for EU doctors, and that, together with the regions, efforts will be made to find the right solution. But it is important to put things in the right relationship. We have at present. the lack of doctors in Denmark, and it is, after all, better to have a doctor who speaks badly Danish than not having a doctor. And I also believe that there should be a difference between the requirements of the various doctors. The doctors who are in contact with patients must clearly have good language skills, so no one is in doubt about what is being said and so one can communicate safely. However, doctors who do not talk to patients may not need to have similar language skills. We need to find the right solution, but it should not be an inflexible solution, and Danske Regioner does not believe that a Danish test 3 that has been proposed in this proposal is the right solution. Therefore, LA does not support these proposals, but will continue to work to ensure that employers, i.e. the regions, fulfil their responsibility to ensure that their employees have the right competences, including in terms of language. And that, as I said, is exactly what L 219 will take into account. At the same time, we will support the fact that the government and the regions together find the best solution for introducing proportional and appropriate language controls, including for EU doctors, possibly as in the Swedish model, and that is precisely what the Minister has asked the DA to look at. And I am quite satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502140108	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502140111	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I just want to know if the rapporteur does not basically acknowledge the principle we have in Denmark that we have an authorisation system, because there is the fact that if you take your education in Denmark, you will be authorized to work in the Danish health care system. If you come from a third country, there are some requirements you must meet. We lay down conditions for languages and qualifications and to know the Danish healthcare system, know the health legislation so that you can obtain your authorisation, whereas for a doctor who has taken his education in an EU country, there is no form of recognition requirement, not even to be able to meet the minimum standards laid down in the recognition directive. In addition, we do not make any demands. That is what must be the tool for the region when they employ staff, that we have said from the state hand: here is someone on whom we can say that they are authorized to work in the Danish health care system. Does it not concern the rapporteur at all that we have such widely differing standards of who we can hire, that is, that we make clear demands if you come from third countries, but if you come from an EU country, then a specialist training can last 3 years, unlike in Denmark, where it lasts 6 years? We do not control professional standards and we can see that this has implications for patient safety. There are patients who are mistreated because the level of education is simply too low.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502140230	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502140234	It worries me quite clearly that when the minimum requirements and competences that we have agreed in the European Union are to apply and when we have the principle of mutual recognition, then the employer does not check that employees actually meet the requirements and the competences that we have now agreed on them to meet. This is a major problem, and that is why on Friday's first-read L 219, which states precisely that employers, i.e. the regions, must check that applicants also continuously meet the requirements of, among other things, employment. language skills.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502140317	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502140322	But it is a slightly reversed situation, because normally, when we grant an authorisation, it is a quality stamp and to say that they are approved to be able to work in the Danish health care system. It is therefore also unreasonable to look at a specific group of doctors saying that, as far as their authorisation is concerned, the regions have a special obligation to go in and check whether the qualification requirements are now met. It should, of course, be the case that when you are authorized to work in the health service, you are approved, you meet quite adequate requirements both for languages and for qualifications. Does the rapporteur not see that it is an unfair situation to put an employer in that an authorisation is not always an authorisation, that there are different levels of such an authorisation?
ParlaMint-DK_20190502140401	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502140404	This is precisely why it is so important that the employer always checks the qualifications of an applicant. It is commonplace, and it is not only in the medical world that it is so extra important, but it is everywhere that whether you are authorized or not, an employer must check the qualifications. You will also have to check when a Danish doctor arrives and applies for an appointment. If the person has a Danish degree and a Danish qualification, check the CV, then check the qualifications, check the person you are facing and assess whether the person is qualified for the position being sought. Surely all employers have a duty to do so. After all, we should not interfere in what the private labour market is doing, but when we employ public doctors, it is clearly a duty that the regions must fulfil. And then it doesn't matter where the doctor comes from.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502140504	Thank you to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup. Then we move on to Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502140516	I would like to start by stressing that the safety and safety of patients must come first and be the starting point for the Danish health service. This is clearly something that is important. Communication and communication are extremely important when we have a healthcare system based on what is called informed consent. Therefore, it is of course extremely important that the patient understands what the doctor explains, and especially in cases where there is a lot of dialogue between the patient and the doctor. It can, for example, be done. be in psychiatry where you have many conversations and where it is important to understand what is being said. The Danish health service needs competent foreign doctors to ensure a high quality of treatment in our hospitals. We simply need doctors, and that is why we need doctors from both EU countries and non-EU countries. Qualified foreign doctors constitute an indispensable labour force in the Danish health care system. Having said that, it is true that there have been others. a documentary called "The foreign doctors', and there are examples that foreign doctors may be less competent than they should be, one can say, and do not meet the requirements that we make of them. After all, these motions for resolutions concern both qualifications and language requirements. In the alternative, like the Danish Regions, we support a targeted language test for health professionals, because what is called Danish Examination 3 does not test in relation to health professional language nor does it listen understanding and oral communication competence. Today, it has sounded as if the regions are not very interested in the skills or linguistic requirements of the doctors they employ. I have been informed by the regions that it is language consultants who carry out language tests in connection with recruitment, that the regions use recruitment agencies to a large extent to recruit foreign doctors, and that they also often carry out the language training required, by the doctors there are some regions that offer mentor programmes, as a former rapporteur has also mentioned, and that there is generally a great deal of attention to linking language teaching to the professional and substantive aspects of what doctors should be able to do. As I said, we believe that the safety and safety of patients must come first. There is no doubt about that. We cannot support this resolution, and that is because it is about some EU law issues. So, in the form in which the motions for resolutions are based here, there are two proposals that we cannot support together, but we agree with the intentions, and we agree that there must be great demands on the language and on the professional qualifications of foreign doctors, whether they come from countries in the European Union or outside the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502140922	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502140927	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I should just be absolutely sure that I understood the rapporteur correctly: in the alternative, is it the case that the very content of the two motions for resolutions here could be supported if it were not because it was contrary to EU law?
ParlaMint-DK_20190502140944	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502140947	That is not quite understood. It is a point that this is about EU law issues. So that's one reason. The second reason is, as I think the former rapporteur said, that it is, of course, a responsibility of the regions. That is why I tried to explain what the regions do when they hire doctors. They have recruitment agencies, they have language consultants, they do a lot of talking with the professional. I believe that this is the responsibility of the regions as employers, and if we have specific cases where the regions do not fulfil that responsibility, then I think we must call for consultation or do other things if we can see that they are not fulfilling their obligation. But that is the task of the regions, and it is the responsibility of the regions, so these are the two reasons for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502141037	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502141041	So the alternative is not in favour of us having a national authorisation procedure in relation to language and qualification requirements? We already have that for doctors coming from third countries today. It is working well, in other words, and the regions are also pleased about this, and it also means that they are still able to recruit doctors from third world countries. But is the alternative opposed to the fact that there is a national system for ensuring language and qualification requirements?
ParlaMint-DK_20190502141108	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502141111	As I said, we agree with, among other things. Danish Regions in that try in Danish 3 is not adequate for what doctors should be able to do and that we therefore need to look at how we can target a language test for health professionals.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502141130	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502141135	I am extremely incomprehensible about what the rapporteur has just said: the rapporteur will not help to secure the language skills of doctors and will not help to ensure that foreign doctors also have the right qualifications. Because what the rapporteur says in his rapporteur's speech is, among other things, what he says. It is also the responsibility of the regions. But let me ask the rapporteur: does the rapporteur think that the regions have fulfilled their responsibilities? I do not know whether the rapporteur has followed in, among other things. the DR documentary which has been shown on DR, on the foreign doctors and seen the grotesque cases that were also, for example. That an entire department has had to be shut down. Is that satisfactory for the alternative rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20190502141220	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502141223	I do not understand the question at all, because I have not said that we are not interested at all in the fact that there should be a certain requirement for different linguistic qualifications and professional qualifications. The rapporteur starts by putting me in my mouth that I have said that. I didn't say anything about that. On the contrary, I have mentioned in my rapporteur's speech the documentary • The foreign doctors, I have mentioned what requirements we believe should be made when dealing with health education and that it is not enough with a test in Danish 3. So I simply do not understand how the rapporteur can stand and put a few words in my mouth when, on the contrary, I have said something quite different in my rapporteur's speech. Yes, there are challenges, and what I said just now to the previous rapporteur was that, if we have concrete examples, we must have a conciliation meeting and then we must take it up and then the Minister must take it up with the regions. I would like to say in this context that I was positive that the Minister actually said that the Minister would look at what more could be done. So I think that is positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502141332	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502141336	But I simply do not understand it, for there have been numerous examples, among others. Also in the documentary, on this. So I do not understand the fact that a conciliation procedure must then be called for, because there have just been many examples of this, and that is why it can be said that there has been a legislative proposal in the Chamber to improve it in relation to the language. So it's just very strange. Then I just have to say something to the rapporteur, who refers to the fact that it is the responsibility of the regions that they should ensure it. But that is the way I think, in any case, that as a member of parliament you also have a responsibility. It is not always possible to dismiss responsibility and say that it lies in the regions and that they must find out.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502141415	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502141418	I think the rapporteur is very bad enough to put things in my shoes just today, which I have not said. I have said that it is an employer's responsibility, just as it is and it was also May-Britt Kattrup's responsibility in the regions that employs on the basis of legislation and some demands we make here on the part of the Danish Parliament. I have not said at any time that we have no responsibility in this House, so I think it is very square, to say the diplomatic, by the rapporteur, to say that that is what I mean. I have not expressed that in any way whatsoever. On the contrary, I have mentioned that documentary, and I have mentioned that it is extremely important for us in the Alternative that it is the patient and patient safety that are the focus. So I don't think it's fair to shoot myself in the shoes, that I don't care about patient safety or anything else, and that I just put it all on the regions and who else it can be. I say it's their responsibility to hire. I mentioned in my speech what they are doing: they have recruitment agencies, they have language tests, they have language training, etc. There are some mistakes, and we have to take them up. Of course we have a responsibility to take them up, and I heard the Minister say that this is also something the Minister is concerned with.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502141533	With that we thank Mrs Pernille Schnoor. And the next in line here is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502141543	Thank you. Thank you to the Enhedslisten and to the Danish People's Party for presenting these two motions for resolutions which we are discussing together today. These are, of course, issues that we have discussed before in this Chamber on several occasions. We also touched on this last Friday when we discussed the government's bill on this with the legal responsibility to ensure linguistic competence. But it is clear that this is also something that has been given new oxygen after the stories that have been in the DR documentary about the foreign doctors. I have not actually seen the relevant sections myself, but I have read many of the derived stories from there, which tell about some incidents that are not satisfactory in the Danish healthcare system and that show that there is something we should be able to do better. And I have no reason to believe that the documentary shows an image that is not true, although I am aware that it is of course always a sample that is being produced. After all, there are two elements to the two motions for resolutions that we are discussing here today. There is one element that is about qualifications, and then there is one element that is about languages. I'm just trying to take them apart a little bit, for the record. With regard to what is about qualifications, I must say that there we have the recognition directive which sets out these very clear minimum requirements. Several other rapporteurs have mentioned this before me. You have to have 5 years of study or 5,500 hours of theoretical and practical training. These are minimum requirements that are being laid down. Is there a need to adjust the minimum requirements? I simply do not have the ability to say yes or no to that; I have to admit that honestly. It may well be that EU requirements need to be adjusted. I would very much like to discuss this another time, but I do not have a full overview of it. I simply do not know enough about all the educational offers around Europe to be able to answer that question myself. Nevertheless, I think that this is where it should be dealt with at European level. Then there is the part about the language, and I have to say quite basically that, as a patient, I will be completely indifferent to whether the doctor who treats me comes from an EU country or a third country. I still need to understand what the doctor's saying to me. And so I can follow the logic of this motion for a resolution to such an extent that it must be the patients on which we are based. And that is where we must ensure that as a patient we are able to understand what is being communicated to you and that the relatives too are able to understand what is being communicated. However, I also fully recognise that we need to find the delicate balance between the fact that, on the one hand, we have recruitment challenges with regard to doctors and, on the other hand, we also need to ensure patient safety. If I was a patient myself or if I had a family member who was a patient and I was in a situation where I could be treated now and here by a doctor who was capable, competent and qualified for his work, but where I did not understand a nick of what he said, versus a situation where I could not be treated now and here or treated by someone who was less competent, but where in return I could understand everything he said, I know what I would choose. Then I would at any time choose the treatment that was most qualified and where I was most likely to recover. So this is just to say, we have to go for boats and... We need both qualifications and linguistic competences. That, of course, is what we must strive for. There is no doubt about that. But we also have a desire to recruit foreign doctors and bring them here as we need them. So this is a balancing point we need to find. I've actually thought for myself that this just requiring a passed Danish test 3 might be a very easy way to do it, because it was such reasonably measurable, and because we use that measuring tool in other contexts; it was to be handled. I can also see that there are many who question whether this is the best way to do it, among other things. Danish Regions, and I kind of listen to that too. As far as I remember the proposal is intended to exempt the Nordic languages from this. And there I simply have to say one thing: I must admit that I do not really know whether I am speaking on behalf of my party; but at least I am speaking on behalf of myself and, unfortunately, many others in my generation. And it is embarrassing to say this here, but it can be as difficult to understand some dialects of Swedish as it can be to understand other European languages depending on where they come from. I very much agree with our wonderful majesty that we in the Nordic countries should try to get better at speaking together in our own language instead of switching to English. But it may not be when you are lying and being sick that the effort must begin. I think that you would just as much like to make sure that you can understand it effortlessly. So it is really just a warning against having the starting point that of course you can always understand what is being said by doctors from the other Nordic countries. So from the Conservative People's Party we will not be supporting either of these two motions for resolutions. With regard to the part dealing with qualifications, we believe that, if adjustments are to be made, this must be done by regulating the recognition directive. However, we would actually like to express a very great appreciation of the desire to address the challenges posed by language and a very great recognition that, from a patient perspective, it does not have much to say whether the doctor comes from an EU country or a third country. It is essential that we understand what is being said. But it's crucial for us that we find this balance in terms of recruitment, so that we don't have a very serious medical shortage. And then we have to make sure that we find the right way to organize the test and control so that we get a real picture. And that's where it's been questioned whether it's gonna be this Danish test 3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502142142	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502142146	Thank you. And thank you for the rapporteur's speech with some very good considerations in it. I could hear that we basically agree on the quite fundamental approach to it, but I would just like to ask the rapporteur, for example. the recognition directive that we are talking about. There is, of course, the case that if you take a specialist course in, for example. Hematology lasts six years in Denmark, but in the recognition directive it only lasts three years, and if you look at all 36 medical specialties that exist, you can see that the average training time is 11⁄2 years below what it does in Denmark. This, in conjunction with the challenges we have faced in hospitals in relation to professional qualifications, with the fact that there have been some training places in the European Union, where there have at least been reasonable doubts about the quality of the profession and the training received there, prompts me to ask whether this is not a matter of concern as regards patient safety in Denmark. When we make the demands that we are now making, it is precisely because these are the demands we already make on doctors coming from third countries, and that is where I still find it difficult to understand why there should be a difference. Whether you have taken your education in Romania or whether you have taken the United States of America, these must be the same requirements that we make in relation to professional qualifications, and I just think that we can see that what lies in the recognition directive is much weaker than what we have in the Danish medical education system.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502142312	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502142315	I think that the examples given by the rapporteur in relation to what is recognised raise some questions as to whether we have put the bar too low in the recognition directive. I do not know how to actually fix this here, for example. I can imagine if it is some medical companies that help to make recommendations. I am not assuming that the politicians alone are sitting here making these decisions. I assume that there is some kind of attitude from some people who have an insight into the different educational provision in the different countries, they can be different in terms of internship and teaching, and it can be difficult to compare how much teaching there is. But I assume that there is some kind of medical assessment inside it, and if there isn't, I would say there should be. Basically, I think it makes sense for us to have freedom of movement within the European Union so that we can share labour with each other, and that is why I think it makes good sense for us to recognise each other's education from the outset, as long as there is some minimum standard. Denmark also benefits from this in many other contexts where Danish employees travel out.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502142421	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502142424	Well, I fully agree that it is good that we can go out and work, but so do we now, and there are also foreign doctors working in Denmark who meet the requirements that lie. In other words, all the doctors we have from third countries, which make up a large proportion of the foreign doctors working in Denmark, meet these exact requirements, so it is not something that hinders freedom of movement; it merely ensures that there is a certain level of both professional and linguistic qualification requirements. That is why I still find it strange, or at least I am surprised, that the same standard will not be applied to doctors coming from EU countries. Because, as the rapporteur himself has said, it is not crucial from where the doctor comes; it is crucial to the qualifications, both professional and linguistic, that the doctor has.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502142507	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502142510	If every single EU country were to develop its own system with which ten different criteria had to be met in order to be recognised in each other's countries, we would simply develop a very large bureaucratic system. That is why there is something clever in the recognition directive. There is something basically clever about it being the same criteria that must be met. And I think that if these criteria are not tough enough, we must tighten them up. I do not think the solution is to scrap the entire recognition directive.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502142537	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mr Seligman. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502142553	Thank you. And thank you for the debate. Basically, I think it has been a good and exciting and also enriching debate with some positive surprises. First of all, I would like to stress that foreign trained doctors should be very welcome to work in Denmark, and fortunately they are already working here, and that is a great gain for the Danish health service. For we need competent foreign doctors from both EU and EEA countries and from outside the EU to ensure a high quality of treatment in Danish hospitals. But it is absolutely crucial that we ensure that foreign doctors working in Denmark meet the same standards and requirements as Danish doctors. Doctors and specialists in the Danish health care system are responsible for the lives of patients every day. Every mistake that occurs is a potential human tragedy which must be avoided for everything in the world. It is therefore extremely problematic that the same language and qualification requirements are not being applied today to doctors and specialists who have taken their training in an EU country or in an EEA country that is being applied to doctors from outside the EU. Doctors trained outside EU/EEA countries are employed in evaluation recruitments, where the doctor is systematically assessed in terms of both clinical competence and Danish language abilities. This ensures that patient safety is in order. The same requirements should be made for doctors who are trained in EU countries. If the Patient Safety Management Board considers that there may generally be a need to relax language requirements in specific employment situations where the requirements do not make sense on the basis of a patient safety or other professional assessment, this can of course be incorporated in making language and qualification requirements the same for EU and EEA doctors and doctors from third countries. For example: there is, as the Minister mentioned, a difference between working with patient contact and working as a researcher, and it is quite clear that there must be different approaches to it, but once again it should be precisely what it is that you are working with and not which country you have taken your education in. It is essential for the quality and safety of the treatment in the Danish healthcare system that the patient can communicate with the doctor. The number of foreign doctors, including EU and EEA doctors, in the Danish healthcare system is increasing these years. A large proportion of them work in smaller hospitals in the outlying areas of the country. We have noted in the past that more than one in ten doctors come from abroad. This makes it urgent for us to set the same quality requirements for doctors from EU countries as we do for doctors from third countries. At the same time, it should not be the case that because you live in a region or part of the country where the proportion of doctors from EU countries is greater than elsewhere, you should be able to have a worse quality in your treatment. The Minister has pointed out in the past that, in the view of the Minister, it is the responsibility of the regions to carry out the task, since they are responsible for recruitment. However, it should be a national responsibility to ensure that language and qualification requirements are sufficient to obtain authorisation to work in the Danish healthcare system. We have seen several cases where it has had serious consequences for patient safety and, moreover, also for the professional environment in certain hospitals. For example: The Board for Patient Safety wrote about the conditions at Nykøbing Falster Hospital in an internal note • I quote: • The department's professional standard is, however, challenged by the medical group's composition of doctors with a foreign educational background and with limited introduction to the usual workflows of the department. It is, of course, in those hospitals that already have the most difficulty attracting doctors that the problem is greatest. Therefore, it is not reasonable to expect them to be able to carry out the task themselves simply by imposing additional requirements for testing and checking the level of qualification. It should be a national responsibility to ensure that doctors who are authorised to work in Denmark, which we can only welcome, also have an adequate level both in terms of language and qualifications. Several comments have been made here in the course of the debate, and I would like to say that I am of course pleased with the support of the Socialists for the Danish People's Party and the Enhedslisten's proposal and, as I understand the Socialist rapporteur, we can support the resolution as it stands, and of course we very much welcome that. I should also like to welcome the SF and say that they support the intentions of the proposal. Then, in relation to what has been said, I would say that we should not make rigid demands, that I agree with that. We must not make rigid demands, but we must make sufficient demands, and I believe that what we are doing, among other things. We have seen in DR's documentary that we are not making sufficient demands today. The demands we make, those we propose, are, after all, exactly the same as those we make for doctors from third countries, which is why these are requirements that we have assessed are reasonable requirements. They are the ones who make it possible for health professionals to come here and have an authorisation to comply with professional and linguistic standards that we can expect doctors working in the health service to have. I also think that we need to take this very seriously, because you can see that it can affect patient safety. There are several rapporteurs who have stressed that this should not affect patient safety, but it does today, and that is why it is crucial that we look at how we can raise the level, because we know today that there are many doctors working with a foreign background in Denmark and, as I said, it is positive. We can also see that it does not seem to be a major obstacle to doctors coming from third countries and seeking to Denmark that we are making tougher demands on them. Based on figures obtained from the Ministry of Health and the Elders, there are 766 doctors from third countries working in Denmark, 987 from EU countries and 72 from the Nordic countries. So it's not something that doesn't bring doctors here to work. The doctors who come from third countries, then, simply live up to stricter requirements that we make to them, and we think it is quite natural to do so, and when the Patient Safety Agency has selected those requirements, it is of course because there is a good professional justification for that being the case. So I am looking forward to seeing that, with the comments that have fallen here today, we can hopefully adopt these resolutions so that we can ensure that there is a standard for working in the Danish health care system and a standard for what is needed to obtain authorisation, and this can help to strengthen both the professional level and patient safety.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502143249	There is a brief comment from Mrs Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502143254	Thank you. Thank you, too, to the rapporteur for his speech. Now we all learned a moment ago that the Danish People's Party wants a model like the Swedish model, and I just want to know if Enhedslisten can support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502143307	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502143310	Yes, but what is absolutely crucial to us is that we have the same standards, regardless of whether you have taken your education in an EU country or in a third country. That is, in fact, what matters to us. Now we really do not know whether what the Danish Government is going to propose is what corresponds to Swedish standards. We have been asked to look into what is needed to ensure that it is within the scope of the recognition directive. We would like to see what is adopted to be the same standards for doctors, regardless of whether they have taken their training in the EU country or in a third country, and that it is determined on the basis of some professional qualities. Whether it is the criteria that lie today or whether they look different, I am completely open to negotiating. I believe that what is crucial is that we ensure that there are similar standards.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502143357	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502143401	It is a little unclear to me exactly what the rapporteur thinks. I just ask: can Enhedslisten support a model such as the Swedish model, which we understand that the Danish People's Party supports, and which the government has also proposed?
ParlaMint-DK_20190502143417	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502143420	Then I shall try to reply again: what matters to us is that there are similar demands. When the rapporteur talks about a Swedish model, it is all about language requirements. There is nothing in a Swedish model in relation to qualifications. What is crucial for us is that we ensure that there are uniform standards for both language requirements and qualifications. The requirement for qualifications, if you have taken your training in an EU country or in a third country, is not included in the Swedish model. It relates only to a language requirement. The language requirement that we have in Denmark today is, as doubts have now been raised as to whether it should be Danish sample 3, completely open to look at. That is not what is crucial, but it is what has been judged to be sufficient if the applicant comes from a third country. What matters to us is that there are similar standards.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502143507	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502143511	I also have to take the floor to clarify something, because the rapporteur of the Left is busy putting words in my mouth, which I have not said from the platform. The Danish People's Party and Enhedslisten agree entirely on the motion for a resolution. What we did and what I did in my speech was that I gave a tribute to Sweden precisely because they have language tests that ensure that it works in Swedish hospitals. That's kind of my point. And I had to take the floor here because the rapporteur of the Left kept putting words in my mouth.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502143543	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502143546	I would just like to emphasise once again that what lies in the Swedish model is just about language requirements, and that is where the government is examining through the Chamber Attorney's Office what Denmark can afford to make of demands so as not to break with the recognition directive. There I know that the Danish People's Party and the Enhedslisten fully agree that what is crucial is that we in Denmark adopt the health professional requirements that we believe are necessary in order to operate in the Danish health care system. So I fully agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502143614	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. As no one else has asked to speak, the negotiations have ended. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190502143630	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday, 3 May 2019, kl. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
