ParlaMint-DK_20190108130026	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Uffe Elbæk (ALT) and Carolina Magdalene Maier (ALT): Request no. F 34 (How does the Prime Minister think that citizens' proposals have already influenced or have the potential to influence the democratic commitment of citizens, and what other initiatives do we from Christiansborg think the Prime Minister can take to further engage the people in the work of the Danish Parliament?). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). I have received letters from the Prime Minister that, following the Prime Minister's recommendation by Royal Resolution of 17 December 2018, it was decided that the responsibility for various IT tasks relating to the National Research Centre for Safety and Health at Work was transferred from the Minister for Employment to the Minister for Public Innovation per year. 1 January 2019 and that the responsibility for various IT tasks relating to the Royal Danish Academy of Music is transferred from the Minister of Culture to the Minister of Public Innovation per year. 1 January 2019. The messages will be printed in www.folketingstidende (cf. (see below). According to my recommendation, the Royal Resolution of 17 December 2018 provides that the responsibility for all tasks, contracts and service agreements relating to basic IT operation of internal data centres, networks, servers and storage, operation of operating systems, standard IT workspace, service desk and user administration, information security tasks relating to senior data centres, contracts and supply management tasks relating to outsourced IT operations related to the National Centre for Safety and Health at Work, is transferred, in accordance with the detailed agreement between the Minister for Employment and the Minister for Public Innovation, from the Minister for Employment to the Minister for Public Innovation per year. 1 January 2019. I would ask the President to inform the Folketing accordingly. Sign. Lars Løkke Rasmussen Following my recommendation, the Royal Resolution of 17 December 2018 provides that the responsibility for all tasks, contracts and service agreements relating to basic IT operation of internal data centres, networks, servers and storage, operation of operating systems, standard IT workspace, service desk and user management, information security tasks relating to senior and outsourced IT-operation contracts and supplier management tasks relating to the Royal Danish Academy of Music, is transferred from the Ministry of Culture and the Minister of Publicity and Innovation to the Minister of Public Innovation pr. 1 January 2019. I would ask the President to inform the Folketing accordingly. Sign. Lars Løkke Rasmussen
ParlaMint-DK_20190108130134	Are there any objections to the promotion of these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108130250	The debate is open. Sir. Bjarne Laustsen, Social Democracy, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108130309	Thank you very much, Madam President. After all, the bill we are considering today is an expiry of our excellent defence settlement that we made a year ago. Then I guess it's also a law that we hope never to need. Because it's about us having a lot of talented employees in the defense, who solve the tasks both at home and abroad on a virtually daily basis. But if we get into a situation where we're gonna need extra personnel... it could be in a crisis, it could be in a war... how can we do that? There have been various discussions about whether we can print more conscripts and what we can do. This is not really any idea that has developed in the backyard of the Social Democratic Party, but of course we support the agreement we have made. We believe that the will to defend ourselves in Denmark is so great that you can do it voluntarily when you need extra personnel. In the Home Guard it has been done for 70 years without any demands; it is only volunteers who volunteer. We saw the situation when we needed people for border guarding, where there were enough who volunteered. So we can solve a lot along that path, and so we are also fortunate enough that the defence is a very good workplace, an exciting and interesting workplace, which means that virtually everyone who comes in as conscripts volunteer. But we have agreed that we can mobilise further in the event of crisis and war and that we can build mobilization companies, and there are three proposals on how to do so. One is that the general period for military service to be available in the full defense force can be extended from 3 to 5 years. So today they have up to three years. We're going to extend that to five years. It's quite unproblematic. Then you can also extend the maximum service period for conscripts from 12 to 24 months. It is the case today that there are different military times, depending on the service you are in, and there you are looking for it to be up to 24 months. So far there are not the major problems in which we see them. Since we have made the agreement and the proposal has been submitted for consultation, personnel organisations have said that the next element is that you can say to former defence employees who have been employed for 12 months: you must stand by and get ready if the defense needs you from the time you have left the defense until your retirement age. There are those who think that this is a violent procedure, and I suppose it is, if you look at it that way in a general context. Normally, we do not have much scam on labour market clauses, staff binding of people, etc. and so on, and I think most employers would also prefer people to volunteer. But it is clear that we can find ourselves in a situation where we need the people, and so former employees have a competence, a knowledge, some things that make them very interesting to get in when it comes to building these mobilization companies. So it's really relevant to discuss how former employees can be used in this context. What is then said by HKKF, among other things, is that it is a lot to impose, and are there any exceptions? Can there be any exemptions? How's it looking the other way? Because the employer has to give the person concerned a leave of absence, who may in the meantime have got into some civil work, and then you have to leave the job and come in and do the duty. This can be done together for up to 36 months, i.e. for 3 years. Here it is, then, that another problem can unfold, and that is: what then, when you have been inside as you should, during this period? Does the employer have to take the person back? That is the kind of thing that I hope the Minister will listen to. Because we have not seen anyone pointing this out before, and we are happy to help us both in committee and in conciliation and so on. I'm gonna have a constructive discussion about this. Can we find methods other than those suggested here? So it is not the case that we are running out of place, but we think it is appropriate to discuss, for example, whether or not we are discussing it. People who have been dismissed from the defence must also have the same duty to run again. There are a lot of such low-practical things and matters that I hope the whole conciliation circle and the Folketing will discuss in connection with this bill, so that if we get into the situation that we have to activate former employees and the military service part etc., then do it with open mind and not just say: we might not need it anyway, then it doesn't matter. No, we need to make legislation, assuming that we can find ourselves in a situation where we need it, and that is why we also need to think carefully before and during committee work. Thank you very much for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108130830	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next one is sir. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108130836	Thank you. If the Socialist rapporteur does not want to take credit for the present draft law, then at least on behalf of the Danish People's Party, I would really like to take credit for it. It is indeed a coinage of our defence reconciliation and is one of the parts that we in the Danish People's Party fought a great deal to get into the defence settlement. Actually, this is the thing about extending the period. You have to be available for full defense from 3 to 5 years, and we set up mobilization companies with 5 years' obligation, or you can be called up for further service up to 5 years after completion of your service. In addition to that, instead of this duty, you can choose to join the National Guard and leave your classes there. We also see this as strengthening the Home Guard. You will further get some very professionally competent soldiers into the Home Guard, and hopefully there will be some of them who will have a taste for life as a Home Guard soldier when they see what the Home Guard really can do. This proposal means, in practice, that we will restore the reserve in Denmark. It's really good for a defense to build on a big reserve. It is a defence where you can have very many soldiers for relatively little money. If we look towards Finland, they have a country which, in size and in defence budget, is quite comparable to Denmark, but unlike Denmark, we can actually mobilise 250,000 soldiers in Finland within a relatively short space of time if we need them. And you can, because you have a defense built on a very large reserve. It is not because we have to have the Finnish model one for one in Denmark, but we in the Danish People's Party think it is very sensible to have this reserve to draw on if you need it in a war or crisis situation. It is also very sensible to see the situation we are in in purely economic terms right now, when there is a boom. It makes very good sense that our soldiers go out to work and keep the wheels running, instead of necessarily going and practicing defence. If you need these soldiers, they can, so to speak, put up the tools and pick up the guns and thus contribute to Denmark's safety. This is one of the things that is very sensible in a defence with a large and strong reserve. It is a clue that we in the Danish People's Party will pursue further. We see a lot of potential in reserve forces. We could, among other things. We could make the brigade heavier, we could make it more powerful, we could also make it more durable in that situation. We must hope that we will not need it, but we can then supplement the brigade if we send out this brigade and it suffers losses. You can if you have a strong reserve. We will also be able to set up reserve crews for our ships. We are in a special situation in Denmark where we barely have a crew per. ship. In many other countries there are up to three herds per year. ship in its navy, and that way you're more robust. This is what we want in the Danish People's Party with our defence. We want a more robust defense, and this is the way to it. That is why we can fully support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108131215	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then there is a comment from Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108131221	Thank you. The rapporteur compares Denmark with Finland. I think that is interesting, but would he not agree that the differences between Denmark and Finland in terms of alliance, in terms of location, in terms of how to defend oneself are so great that it is simply pointless to use Finland as an example in relation to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20190108131250	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108131251	I would like to acknowledge that there is a difference between Denmark and Finland, particularly in relation to the circumstances referred to by the questioner, there is no doubt about that. I mentioned Finland as an example of what can be done with a defence built on reserve forces, i.e. how many soldiers you can potentially mobilise for the same money. It may, of course, be possible to attribute the value of NATO to defending Denmark. But the NATO alliance is only as strong as its Member States are. And for the Danish People's Party, it is important that we contribute to the strength of the NATO alliance and that we do not just sit back and expect the Americans to come and carry the load if that is the case that we will need the NATO alliance. There, too, we in the Danish People's Party believe that we have an obligation in Denmark to contribute to the NATO alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108131337	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108131339	Well, I am glad that the rapporteur recognises that the comparison with Finland has no significance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108131345	Thank you. Then no one else has any comments. Sir. Peter Juel Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108131353	Thank you for that, President. Now, this bill isn't about taking credit, but it's about looking out for Denmark, because Denmark is somewhere else than we did just a few years ago. We can be challenged quickly, and therefore it makes sense to strengthen the ability of the defence to mobilise by setting up the so-called mobilization companies. The companies are built by using conscripts which, for up to 5 years after completion of training, must be able to be called upon to serve in the companies in the event of war or crisis. In the event of a war or crisis, they will have to complete further training and training prior to their entry into the companies. With a maximum service period of 24 months, an appropriate balance has been found which can accommodate the exceptional cases in which it will be necessary to mobilise the conscripts. The Left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108131501	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108131513	From the side of the Enhedslisten, we cannot support this proposal. After all, the starting point is to extend military service, but also to extend the period during which people can be called to duty, even in relation to former employees. You could say that this is a lot about being able to gather enough manpower for example. the brigade and other activities decided upon with the defence settlement, which we on Enhedslisten basically believe can contribute to an armament that can in fact in the long run be dangerous for Denmark, because you will be placing more soldiers and also Danish soldiers along the Russian border and can help create tensions, and I think that is actually a wrong way to go. So as a starting point, we cannot support this. I think it would be quite different if we were today to discuss how to modernise military service, because I think that in many ways there may be a need to discuss it. But this is just an increase and an extension of military service in order to be able to place more soldiers, among other things, for this brigade and other purposes which lie in the defence settlement and which we on the Enhedslisten certainly do not agree with. So we can't back that up.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108131645	Then there's a comment. Sir. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108131647	I have one question for Enhedslisten, just to understand: Is Enhedslisten in favour of military service?
ParlaMint-DK_20190108131654	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108131654-2	Yes, as a starting point, we are in favour of military service, so that you do not only have professional soldiers. But we are also in favour of modernising military service, for example. is given much better opportunities to serve civilian military service. In fact, it was also mentioned here that there is a need to strengthen the tasks of preparedness, and I agree so much that there are a lot of challenges in relation to climate disasters and other things where conscripts could play a more comprehensive role than they do now. I think that is what we should be looking at. It is important for us to focus more on civilian tasks.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108131733	There are no more comments to the rapporteur, so go ahead with the next rapporteur, who is Mr Seligman. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108131741	Thank you for the floor. The Liberal Alliance is part of the defense settlement that this bill is helping to implement. After all, it is no secret that during the negotiations on a new defence settlement, the Liberal Alliance fought hard to strengthen volunteering in defence, among other things. by exempting a number of conscripts whose military service has been postponed from service. Of course, we share the intention to strengthen Danish total defence, especially in view of the security situation we are in, with Russia, which is rattling with the sabre, and our security guarantee in NATO, which is not quite as secure as it may have been. We think that the extension of military service from three to five years is a good thing, and we are also happy to discuss the practical arrangements for the commitment of the former employees, which has already been mentioned.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108131842	The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108131847	Thank you. I shall be brief, because Mrs Flyvholm has mentioned many of the elements that I would have mentioned, precisely that it is an armament to begin to expand in this way, and we do not support that from the point of view of the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108131908	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Anne Marie Geisler Andersen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108131915	This bill is intended to increase the ability of defence to mobilise in the event of war and crises by building so-called mobilization companies. Total defence is strengthened by the fact that conscripts who have completed an eight-month military training must be able to be called upon to serve in the mobilization companies for up to 5 years after their return. In this way, the draft law translates into the part of the defence settlement which deals with strengthening total defence and increasing the capacity of defence to mobilise in the event of war and crisis. As you know, in the Radical Left we are part of the conciliation and we support this. At the time of the conclusion of the defence settlement, there was also agreement to provide for the possibility of reinstatement of former employees. The draft law thus provides that former employees who have been employed for at least one year must be able to be called upon to perform their duties in the event of war, disaster or other exceptional circumstances. It is up to 36 months together and until retirement age. Several consultation responses find this somewhat far-reaching and concern is raised about the possible consequences, including: in the form of recruitment problems. We in the Radical Left are impressed by the answers given, particularly in relation to the part relating to the fact that former employees must be available right up to the age of retirement. There may be circumstances that make this very badly linked to the individual's life situation. As part of the conciliation circle, we support the proposal, but we have urged the Minister that we should have a detailed discussion of the answers to the consultations in the conciliation group, with the involvement of the trade unions, if possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108132057	Thank you. Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108132108	This proposal goes right into a debate on military service, which has been running in defence circles and in defence circles for many years, and which was also a theme when the last defence settlement was discussed. Our position on military service is, in fact, very clear. We are not in favour of military service. We believe that it is an old-fashioned institution and that, by the way, there is little obligation on it. In addition, the tasks we need to carry out must be carried out with professional soldiers, that is, people who are properly trained. So we are not in favour of military service. We must then see this proposal as something like those parties of a national conservative nature who believe that military service is so per year. definition is a good thing and the young men like to be trained in protecting our homeland have gotten along as a big scalp in the defense settlement. The scale is not so big, because there is no question of extending it. But it is still a question of extending military service, of increasing the use of military service, and I would say that we cannot support it. A number of comments have been made in the consultations, including: from HKKF, which we consider to be very relevant. It is they who, if I may say so, are facing the daily problems in this area and therefore know where the shoe is pressing. We have to take this very seriously, but I assume we can look into that in the committee reading of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108132257	Thank you to the rapporteur. And there are no comments. Sir. Nase Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108132305	Thank you. Denmark is facing a changed threat picture in these years. We should not only focus on intervention forces outside the world • there we are doing the otherwise excellent defense in the vicinity has once again come on the defence policy agenda. In the negotiations on the defence settlement, the Conservatives were very concerned that total defence and military service should be strengthened. That is why we were very pleased that we managed to reach such a good settlement with the other parties. We also have a desire to continue to strengthen the defence. We must be able to defend Denmark also in the Baltic Sea and defend our interests in the Arctic region. At the same time, we must be able to participate in peace-building international missions. With the latest defence agreement, we are one step closer to what Conservatives want for defence, and that is a significant strengthening of our defence. This bill is also an expression of that. The bill builds up eight new mobilization companies to be trained for deployment. At the same time, we are extending the possibility of calling conscripts into total defence in the event of crisis and war. It is a very concrete strengthening of Denmark's military capabilities in the event of crises, which in recent years have moved closer to our borders. That is why we support Conservatives, of course, on the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108132448	Thank you. Then there are no more rapporteurs. Secretary of Defense, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108132459	I would like to thank you for your contributions during the debate on the draft law. Denmark faces a more serious threat picture than in any other period after the fall of the Wall, and therefore, in the event of war or crisis, there is a need for all available resources to be used to defend Denmark and safeguard its security. At the 2018 defence settlement, it was agreed that the ability of the defence to mobilise should be strengthened by setting up mobilisation companies. The Mobilisation companies must be built by using conscripts which, for up to 5 years after the end of training, must be able to be called upon to serve in the companies in the event of war or crisis. At the same time, it was agreed that total defence should be strengthened by increasing the period during which conscripts are required to be available for total defence from three years to five years and by creating the possibility of re-calling former employees if needed. And the bill here is therefore a coinage of this part of the defence settlement. Among other things, the draft law determines when a military employee will be subject to the obligation to be summoned in the event of war or crisis. The obligation will apply primarily to military personnel recruited after the entry into force of the law. On the other hand, those employed at the time of entry into force of the law will be able to choose whether or not to benefit from the new system. In the context of a call, to the extent permitted by the situation, an assessment and priority will be given to the persons to be called. Among other things, attention will be paid to the health status of the personnel. In addition, the draft law also takes into account the need to lay down detailed rules on remuneration for this group in the event of their being called up. Finally, it is so important to bear in mind that a call will only be made in exceptional situations in connection with war or crisis. We shall then discuss this in committee and in conciliation. Let me conclude by thanking you once again for your comments. I look forward to having constructive discussions on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108132746	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Defence Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108132758	The debate is open. Sir. Simon Kollerup, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108132824	It takes place around the clock, sometimes it takes place in the middle of the night in the dark, which can be wet and smooth on the deck. Fishing can be a harsh and sometimes also a dangerous feat. Maybe it'll blow and there'll be high seas. You can hurt yourself and get hurt. You can lose your life if you fall overboard. The working environment is important on board Danish fishing vessels, as is the case in the labour market. Throughout the fishing fleet, from the smallest dinghy to the largest trawlers, the challenges are different, but they are there, and they must be taken care of for the benefit of Danish fishermen who come out and for their families who are waiting at home. In the Social Democratic Party we have the utmost respect for the great efforts of the Fisheries Working Environment Council for the benefit of Danish fishing. Maritime safety work is continuously modernised and supplemented by efforts relating, for example, to: a healthy way of life for active Danes who are far away from home many days a year. Guidance on rest periods, smoking rules and a healthy and varied diet are also among the efforts of the Fisheries Working Environment Council. Today, we are dealing first with a bill which determines which organisations will be eligible to participate in the board's work in the Fisheries Working Environment Council. The bill introduces new players representing fishermen and employees on board. Following the amendment of the law, the Association for Gentle Coastal Fishing and CO-Søfart will be able to appoint one member each to the Board of Directors. At the same time, the number of seats on the board is increased from 8 to 10, so that none of the current members need to lose their place due to the amendment of the law. The bill must be seen as part of a larger whole in the area of fisheries, where the implementation of the "Growth and Development Package for Danish Fisheries" from December 2018 has led to a political desire that has necessitated the changes in the way that is happening now. In the Social Democratic Party we support the agreements we make in the draft law, but I would like to take this opportunity to stress that we do not expect the amendment of the law here to indicate a change of practice in the wider field of health and safety policy. The bill solves an isolated problem in an isolated area. At the same time, we have taken note of the consultation responses that have been received. Here a more fundamental debate about the Danish model is being raised in a few places. The observations may naturally come from the actors who have today been on the Board of the Fisheries Safety and Health Council. This is a relevant debate. However, I do not agree 100% with the criticism, but we will of course use the work of the committee together with the other parties to assess whether there is a basis for accompanying the amendment of the law here with comments which, in one way or another, can accommodate the more fundamental part of the remarks of the Danish Fisheries Association and the 3F. In conclusion, I would like to use this year's first fisheries policy legislative procedure to sign off on the fact that once again it is a united Parliament that is behind changes in fisheries policy. Here at Christiansborg it always suits us best when we can make improvements in a very broad consensus. This is also the view of the Danish business community. The broad consensus within Christiansborg citizen for long-lasting solutions, and one can adapt to that. So just a word of thanks to the parties behind the fisheries package for the course that has been set, not least of course to the government for having joined the policy pursued and thus supporting the direction that the fisheries policy is moving in these years. All I have to say is that the Social Democratic Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108133255	Thank you. There are no comments. Sir. Ib Poulsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108133306	Thank you. After all, the draft law we are discussing today is part of the fisheries package as far back as December 2016. It is about two years since we reached an agreement, and now we are standing here and having to legislate on one of the points. The reason we have to change this is because we believe that the broadest shoulders should bear the greatest burden in terms of paying to the Fisheries Working Environment Council. It's not like that today. Some of the smallest fishermen today pay a two-digit percentage of their income for this advice, while for the most important ones it is the promos of some promos they pay. And we in the Danish People's Party do not think that is fair. We then wanted to send a signal when we were told that it was the social partners who had to put together the amounts that we wanted to see it changed. It changed, but it turned out that the change that was made meant that some of the smallest fishermen had to pay more with the new change than they did in the past. So that is why we have come here where we have to change the composition so that some of the smallest in the profession can also be represented on the council, contrary to what it is like today. And as has been said, the employer side is being expanded: DPO and FSK come up on the employer side and CO-Søfart come up on the worker side, so that we get a more broad representation and we can have a wider discussion about how the economic composition should be. So it is my hope that it will be so forward-looking that the widest shoulders should bear the greatest burden in this matter. It has been important to us that it should be so forward-looking and it has been difficult to get here, but with this bill we will at least ensure that there will be a broad representation in the Council. So I look forward to the legal treatment of this case. And DF can of course support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108133533	There are no comments here either. Sir. Erling Bonnesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108133543	Thank you. The Fisheries Working Environment Council carries out several important tasks, and their advice helps prevent occupational injuries and create a healthy and safe working environment for the many fishermen who do a great job every day. Their work contributes to Danish exports and gross domestic product to a large extent and thus, of course, also to Danish society as a whole. The draft law before us today makes some adjustments to the composition of the Fisheries Working Environment Council. The Council is being extended from 8 to 10 members, leaving room for new organisations under the agreement that has been made, thereby supporting the Left bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108133627	Thank you. We move on quickly to Mrs May-May-Britten Kattrup, the Liberal Alliance. Excuse me, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten, who was hiding. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108133647	Yeah, we're happy to stand by what we mean. I think that this bill deals with some problems and leads us to have a more complex Working Conditions Council, and I think that is a good thing. Because if you look at the small fishermen who sail out early in the morning and are at sea for one day and come home in the evening, then there are some other working conditions on these small ships, and I think it is important that this type of job is also represented in the Fisheries Working Environment Council. It is therefore the question of which organisation is to take care of the interests of small fishermen. I think it is very good that the Association for Gentle Coastal Fishing can enter the Fisheries Working Environment Council. I think it would be best if we were just to ensure that they make an accession agreement or a proper agreement so that they are an employer on the council. That is why we need to clarify this right through a committee procedure, and it would be an advantage if this signature were to take place before we come to the second reading of the legislative proposal. I think it is a good solution that has been arrived at to extend the number of members of the Fisheries Working Environment Council from 8 to 10. Then it is easier to make a composition which makes it possible for all parts of the fishing to be represented, so that it is both fishermen in small vessels, the fishermen who sail out and are at sea for a few days, and also those fishermen on ships that sail very far away and are at sea for over a week, so it is all the working conditions in the fishing industry that are handled in the Fisheries Working Environment Council. So we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108133821	Thank you. There are also no comments here, and then it is Mrs May-May-Britten Kattrup, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108133829	Thank you. In fact, the Liberal Alliance would have preferred the social partners to find a solution themselves. The Danish model on the Danish labour market is a good and strong model that we must safeguard, but it has apparently proved necessary to put forward legislative proposals on the composition of the Fisheries Working Environment Council, and some of the parties behind the fisheries package have wanted this bill. Against this background, the government has tabled the bill, and the Liberal Alliance supports it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108133900	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108133910	Thank you. Several other rapporteurs have said that this is a slightly different way of dealing with legislation rather than leaving it to the social partners. But all in all, it is a very sensible proposal to expand with these new organisations, and that is why we in the alternative are also supporting it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108133933	Thank you. And the next one, sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108133938	Thank you. The Radical Left, like all the other parties in the Folketing, supports both the bill and also the fisheries policy which is being conducted here in the Kingdom, and that here we are expanding and changing the composition of the Fisheries Working Environment Council. We think this is sound and sensible and we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108134001	Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108134017	For a number of years now we have been discussing fisheries and the working conditions of fishermen, and well for that, because we were heading in the wrong place we had actually ended up in the wrong place. That is why we in the SF are very pleased with the developments that have taken place in recent years in which we have said that there must be proper fishing. This applies both to working conditions, to the need for more sustainable fishing and, of course, not to the state of monopoly that had come. I stand here as a business rapporteur. It is our Fisheries rapporteur who has been part of the negotiations from which this bill comes. However, I have also been a Fisheries rapporteur in the past, and this is a matter which we have been discussing for a number of years now. This draft law must then ensure a proper composition of the Fisheries Working Environment Council. There, of course, we have taken note of the comments made by the SF, among others. from 3F. And we in the SF fully agree with what the Social Democrat rapporteur said, and also with what Enhedslisten's rapporteur said, namely that this should not be a general practice. This is a specific solution to solve a specific problem specifically for fisheries, namely that we have a great many fishermen with smaller boats. We want to give them a hand because we can see that the path of development, with very large vessels and quota kings who are going to fill it all, is not healthy for our fishing. That is why we would like to give a hand in this regard. The association for gentle coastal fishing and give them a place on the council. But the comments which, among other things, have been made. 3F has come along, is quite real, namely: what does it do for developments in the field in general? Does this set a precedent? We do not want this in the SF, which is why I think that all the parties and also very much like to join with the Minister, because it is a common business, finding a solution or very clearly pointing out that this is a very specific and specific arrangement for a specific area. The SF is in the agreement and we support it, of course. We just think it is appropriate that it should also be made clear that this is not a dispute with a practice we have otherwise had, with regard to who are workers and who are employers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108134257	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next one, sir. Orla Østerby, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108134304	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say that many people have said that this is not a dispute with the Danish model. But that's what it is. After all, it is the Danish model that we go in and attack by not recognising the social partners, in other words that they are the ones who take these decisions and that we do not legislate and make legislative action. I would just like to quote from the consultation note: Denmark's Fisheries Association Producer Organisation and 3F point in particular to the Danish labour market model as a basis for their opposition to including the Association for Smart Coastal Fishing. In the opinion of the organisations, only those organisations which are parties to agreements in the field concerned should be able to nominate members of the Fisheries Working Environment Council and similar councils and boards. It is the classic, it is the one that runs all over Denmark, in all organizations and in all areas. So it is thought-provoking to intervene here from the Royal Danish Social Democracy and the Danish People's Party with an attack on the social partners. Because this is it. And that is why the Minister has been forced to come up with a bill in an area where the social partners themselves, of course, had to solve this and we as politicians at Christiansborg had to stay far, far away. This is a way to open the door to us, as politicians, getting involved in the problems of the social partners. We shouldn't do that. We shouldn't have done that here, too. Of course, as a government party, we are loyal and support when there is a majority behind what we have been agreed on in the fisheries package. But this part of the fisheries package is a really bad solution, and it is really a day of celebration, especially for the red parties, because you now start by attacking the Danish model. We in the Conservative People's Party think this is a really bad idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108134527	There are a few comments. Sir. Simon Kollerup, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108134528	You don't know whether to laugh or weep at the Royal Danish Conservative People's Party in this embrace and tribute to the Danish model. It's almost to get tears in your eyes. But what I would like to ask the rapporteur from the Conservative People's Party about, and as I also mentioned a little in my own rapporteur's speech, is whether the Conservative People's Party will be prepared to consider in the committee's work whether it would be possible to make comments on the draft law, that is to say, a text of the report, which got the challenge that might be with the Danish model, because, as I also said, I recognise that there can be. Will you be prepared to discuss the possibility of making the comments that make the attack that the Conservative People's Party sees for itself may not be so bad at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20190108134622	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108134623	Well, this attack is actually very bad, because it's so obvious an attack that everyone can see it. That is not even what is said in phrased words; it is simply a direct attack on the model which, at least, the Social Democrats should refrain from. So I have nothing more to say than that if the Social Democracy and DF, who have been banner leaders for this, want some special people to have a seat in a council, then they must make all the good suggestions to me, and I will always accept with open mind. But what the Social Democrats have set in motion here is very, very dangerous, sir. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108134710	Sir. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108134712	It's a little early to prepare for opposition time, sir. Orla Østerby, but I think the rapporteur is doing a good job and will be well-suited as an opposition politician before that. I am interested in trying to find solutions here, which is why I believe that we will involve the Conservative People's Party in finding the lines that are needed. In concrete terms, I would like to ask: Does Mr. Orla Østerby not that the problem should have been solved if one imagined that the Association for Smart Coastal Fishing acceded to the existing agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20190108134744	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108134745	Well, now it's the case that I'm not a hearing party in this, but it's clear and clear to Mr. Kim. Simon Kollerup that the 3F hearing answer says: Keep your fingers off this, including the Social Democracy. That's what 3F writes directly. That is why it is for them to see that, and I understand that, a direct attack where, as politicians, when we are not satisfied with what the social partners can find out, we just go in and make a legislative action. We have done this a few times in Denmark when we have had collective bargaining that has broken down. But in a field of health and safety, it has not been seen before.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108134828	Sir. Ib Poulsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108134829	Thank you. I listened to Mr. Orla Østerby's speech, and the longer we got into the speech, the more I doubted whether the Conservative People's Party really supports this bill or not. Because you thunder against it, and you don't think it's a good idea. So I just need the rapporteur, sir. Orla Østerby, to confirm that you support the bill. Or don't you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108134857	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108134859	Well, I was very clear about that, so if mr. Ib Poulsen had followed, it would be clear that we are a loyal party, but we also have to point out that there are two parties with Mr Poulsen. Simon Kollerup and Mr. Ib Poulsen in the lead, who is out making a frontal attack on the Danish model. And it is incomprehensible to me that the other parties in the opposition can take part in this galley, because what has been set in motion here is so dangerous because you want to help a single organisation. We must not do that, and we have been in this thing for many, many years in agreement that we should let the social partners find out. It's not the same thing as the government wasn't supposed to make this bill loyally when you have a majority saying you want it. But don't come behind and say that we haven't spoken against it, so I'm doing it from Parliament's platform, because it's quite important that this is said. I know there are others who haven't done it, but I have to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108134955	Sir. Ib Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108134957	Well, it's a legislative assembly we're in, and this is legislation. And now we are legislating that we are expanding the circle of the social partners in this council. Then the rapporteur says that it is a single organisation that is taken into account, but that is not correct, Mr President. Orla Østerby. For it is both the DPO who gets a seat, and it is CO-Søfart who gets a seat, and then FSK also gets a seat. So we expand the circle of those who should sit on the council and think Mr. Orla Østerby, does it not make sense for us as legislators to look at sometimes whether the legislation is adapted to time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108135037	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108135038	No, what has been set in motion here is very unwise and very unreasonable. It is quite clear that for Mr. Ib Poulsen has been important for FSK to have their own place, but it is quite unusual that an organisation that cannot make agreements in the area of pay negotiations is suddenly put into a special board post. I just have to say that it is simply not right and it is quite unusual that it should happen and it has never happened before.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108135106	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108135110	I mean, I think that what is driving this bill is that we should like to see health and safety work handled in a better way. If you look at it in such a pragmatic way, I think it is an advantage if all types of fishing can be taken into account in the work on health and safety at work. I can agree with the rapporteur if it is the case that the Coastal Fishing Association does not sign an accession agreement or an agreement, that then we have a muddy situation, and that is why I very much hope that before we come to the second reading the FSK will sign an agreement or an accession agreement. So I would really like to hear the rapporteur: if that would happen, what is the problem here? Then we have expanded the number of organisations that can be involved in working conditions, and thus we have the opportunity to take a serious view that there can be other working conditions on a small ship with quite a few employees. Does the rapporteur not see this?
ParlaMint-DK_20190108135213	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108135215	But I would like to say to Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, that it is the case that we can wish ourselves many things as politicians in agreements, in health and safety councils around Denmark, but there is a completely fixed procedure for this, and that is that we politicians stay out of it. So even if we have a lot of wishes, we can tell some others about them, but the actual negotiations about this are usually not going on in the Chamber. And I also believe that this is the first time that the rapporteur has ever seen such a case in the Folketing. This is quite unusual, and we can have many, many wise opinions about how we want the organisations to look after their interests, but so far we have not interfered and let them find out for themselves because it is the Danish model.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108135304	Here you go, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108135306	I think it is quite natural that when new organisations are created, we should look at whether it would be beneficial for those organisations to take part in some work. In other words, it is not a question of us intervening here in some collective dispute. We are trying to relate to the working environment in the fisheries sector, and then we come up with a legislative proposal here which ensures that there are more organisations that can be involved in that work, and I do not see that as a problem. I think that if you look at the consultation answer from 3F, they have kept their number of seats. So is there any problem when you look, like, at the superiors and what is the purpose of the bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20190108135345	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108135347	Yes, it is a problem because it is the social partners who have to agree on this, and not the politicians at Christiansborg. So it is a huge problem that we are now beginning to interfere in the task of the social partners. It's the Danish model. This is something we have been safeguarding for many years and is very important when we look at the peaceful labour market we have in Denmark. That is why we must not start interfering when there are some parties to find out who is going to have some posts. Then we have to let them find out for themselves, because it is contractual and so on. etc., and we politicians here in the Assembly do not know that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108135425	Thank you. So no more rapporteurs have asked to speak, but the Minister for Industry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108135436	Thank you for the comments to the bill, which is about a follow-up to the fisheries package, where there is a desire from the parties behind the fisheries package to change the composition of the Fisheries Working Environment Council, so that in particular the Association for Smart Coastal Fishing will have a place in the Council, and this is being met with the bill. The draft law, which is not very comprehensive, makes the change in the distribution of seats in the council that on the employers' side the Danish Fisheries Association Manufacturer Organisation, Denmark's Pelagic Producer Organisation and the Association for Gentle Coastal Fishing have the right of adjustment for seats in the council, and on the employees' side 3F and CO-Søfart have the right of appointment for seats in the council. In order to continue to ensure that the Council consists of an equal number of representatives of workers and employers, the number of members of the Council has been proposed to be extended from 8 to 10 members. The appointment of the members of the Council will take place as soon as possible after the draft law may be adopted. I look forward to further consideration of the draft law and I hope for a constructive discussion in committee. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108135556	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190108135611	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday, 9 January 2019, at 12.00 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
