ParlaMint-DK_20191213100010	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Food, Fisheries and Equal Opportunities (Mogens Jensen): Bill no. L 84 (Proposal for a law on plant and plant health, etc.). Morten Messerschmidt (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 61 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on reservations against the UN Convention on the Reduction of Statelessness). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20191213100038	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 17 December. I give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the question, and that is Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker, the Danish People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213100112	Thank you. You don't think that word sounds a little more sexy than outskirtsdanmark and the rotten Banana and all the other words we hear about rural areas? Action zones are a word that like signals that there is a development going on; here is a place where we are developing, unlike the other words we know, where it sounds as if it is a place that is in the process of being settled. We in the Danish People's Party have not concealed the fact that we are inspired by the Norwegian model. In Norway, they have been very successful in introducing action zones. What they do is they say: in these areas we really, really need people to live so that the whole Northern Norway doesn't die. That's why they give these people a number of benefits. That is, for example, the case. the depreciation of student debt, increased child support, higher pay for, inter alia, nurses and high school teachers, discounting the energy bill as well as some other measures that are quite irrelevant to Denmark. It is such a thing as lower taxation on the catch of royal crabs. It's a little difficult to transfer to Danish relationships. It is also a matter of giving a rebate on a worker's tax, but I do not want to be the one who stands here and gives the government good ideas to introduce even more taxes. They're good at that already. When we in the Danish People's Party feel inspired by something, there are immediately parties for whom sport is actually going to deliberately misunderstand what we say and understand it in the way that we want to transfer the Norwegian model one to one to Denmark. No, we are well aware that rural areas in Norway are of quite a different dimension than in Denmark. After all, there is no rural area in Denmark that is struggling with 200 km to the nearest grocery store. Nor is there any rural area in Denmark that struggles with the fact that it is 10 degrees colder there than inside the cities, or that you have huge areas that lie deserted. However, the creation of some action zones aimed at boosting certain areas where population decline is not alone a very good idea; we think it is a necessity. We also share this view with the Joint Council of Rural Regions, which this morning has been out to praise the proposals of the Danish People's Party and among others. has stated: The Council supports Dansk Folkeparti's request to Minister for Business Simon Kollerup (S) made in Parliament on Friday. Here the organisation has a skeleton for Norway, which has successfully supported the attraction of qualified labour in rural municipalities. So I look forward to a very good debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213100428	Thank you to the rapporteur for the questioners for giving the reasons for the question debate. I shall now give the floor to the Minister of Industry to answer the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213100439	Thank you. Thank you for the question and also for the motivation for us to hold it here, I think, also very important debate on the development of our rural areas. I share the desire to support and promote positive rural development, and this applies to the entire government. At the outset, there should be no doubt about that. And in addition to the role of Minister of Industry, I also take my responsibility as rural minister very, very seriously. It is an important priority for me to work towards creating a coherent Denmark. Therefore, I would also like to sign for the Danish People's Party to address this issue, and I look forward to sharing our ambitions and plans for rural areas with each other today. At least I can see for myself that the economic progress in Denmark has been unevenly distributed between the country and the city for several years. Many people find that our rural areas are not getting a sufficient share in the recovery that the rest of Denmark has experienced in recent years. And it is my belief that the Danish rural areas have different conditions, different strengths, but also different challenges. And that is why there is no fast one size fits all-solution that can help rural areas over one. As you know, in August 2018, the Social Democratic Party presented the motion for a resolution. The purpose of this proposal is to take a fight with the centralization wave that pulls Denmark off the rails. It remains the government's wish. And we will work to strengthen rural areas by bringing welfare closer to citizens and creating better conditions of growth for production and industry throughout Denmark. We want to ensure that there is development, opportunities, welfare and jobs throughout our beautiful country. In Norway, since 1990, the northernmost part of the country has been referred to as the area of action. The proposal to set up this action zone was prompted by crises in the fishing and fishing industries, and the measures targeted at the zone were intended to alleviate unemployment and generally poor living conditions for the people of Northern Norway. Today, the scheme seeks to create an attractive region to live, work and operate. The main instruments are exemption from employers' tax, depreciation of student loans and reduction in personal taxation. The ambition to promote the development of challenged areas is, in fact, shared in the Danish government with our Norwegian colleagues. And I agree with the Danish People's Party that it is worth keeping an eye on good ideas and solutions in our neighbouring countries. I still find it difficult to see an action zone like this for one by Norwegian example. I find it difficult to see it as a grip that can be transferred directly to Denmark, and there are several reasons for this. As the rapporteur for the authors also says, our countries differ in many respects. Denmark is not nearly as challenged as Norway in creating settlements in all parts of the country; neither when we speak geography nor climate conditions. The action zone has only been introduced in the northernmost municipalities of Norway, where settlement is linked to major challenges. In Denmark we are fortunate enough that even though the climate fills more and more in our domestic discussion, there is nowhere where the climate troubles the settlement to the same extent as in Nordnorge. This means that on that parameter we do not experience differences in our way of life but we have other challenges. In the question, Dansk Folkeparti highlights the possibility of reducing study debts as in the Norwegian initiative zone. The Danish Su system is different from the Norwegian system. In Denmark, the su-grant can be supplemented by su-loans. In Norway, higher education students receive as a starting point the support as su-loans. And part of the loan can, under certain conditions, be converted into fellowships afterwards. Just such a difference between the Danish and Norwegian su-system means that the cancellation of loans as an incentive for settlement would work in a different way in Denmark than it does in Norway. In 2012, Norwegian researchers examined the action zone and the impact of the actions on the 92,000 northern Norse inhabitants living in the zone. In their report, the annual cost of the zone in 2010 was estimated at approx. 3.2 billion Norwegian kronor. In other words, this is a massive financial support package in Norway's model, and there is therefore also a substantial consideration of financing linked to the Norwegian model if you want to make one of these. In my view, however, the idea of targeting rural areas is sensible, and I therefore also welcome the fact that there are already good initiatives which provide particularly favourable conditions for certain parts of Denmark. This is true, for example. the possibility of seeking LAG funds and FLAG funds for projects that create development and new jobs in our rural areas. The government has chosen to allocate an additional 30 million to the LAGs. kr. in 2020, and we have done so because LAG efforts strongly support rural growth. There is also the rural pool, which includes: provide support for projects promoting employment and also settlement in rural areas. And in addition, of course, the pool's special island support helps to ensure good living conditions for the 27 small islands we have in Denmark. In Denmark, we have also allowed commuters from peripheral municipalities to benefit from an increased transport allowance, and citizens in non-bridged islands can deduct expenses from accommodation if the distance to work means that they cannot spend the night at home. The plot for village renewal should also be mentioned. It is a pool that is targeted 56 municipalities • with the funds from the pool, the municipalities can apply for subsidies for the demolition of decrepit properties, in particular, which marsh our villages. So there are quite a few good initiatives that are targeted at rural municipalities. Geographically, the measures are not limited to one zone, but several rural municipalities reappear in the different boundaries. The government works in several ways to avoid a Denmark that breaks over. We have already announced that we want to invest in local training provision. We are putting an end to the constant erosion of education and training by the re-priority contribution. We're coming with 50 million. kr. as a financial rescue plan for the needed hf and vuc departments. And recently, my good colleague, the Minister for Education and Research, has approved applications from the higher education institutions to create 15 new courses, tenders and duplicates outside the major university cities. The government wants a broad geographical education coverage. There must be good education throughout the country so that our children and young people can have a safe upbringing and good schooling. And companies across the country must have access to qualified labour. It helps to create both jobs and skilled labour around the country, exactly as we want it in the government. Structural changes also affect Denmark. Here and in the rest of the European Union, we have the LAG scheme, which helps to develop new business and job opportunities where previously there were more jobs in agriculture. However, despite the high value of LAG funds locally, LAG funds were cut by 30%. by the V government back in 2015. In my view, this was a completely unbalanced priority, and it also gave a completely justified criticism from several quarters. Now, as I said, the government has allocated 30 million. kr. additional to the local action groups to correct the scheme for the coming year. The additional funds are directed towards projects that promote sustainable development and green conversion in rural areas. And in this way they will contribute to both industrial development, job creation and the green transition. The government's work to avoid a Denmark that breaks over has only just begun. Later in the parliamentary term, we will present in the government a political initiative to strengthen rural areas and the areas outside the large cities, and this is a work that I look forward to seriously addressing. In preparing this proposal, I will of course seek inspiration both at home and abroad, which is the framework for the debate we have today. It is important that we look at challenges and potentials and that we take the time to find the best solutions for a coherent Denmark, and this is done in dialogue with relevant stakeholders and, for my part, in close dialogue with my good colleagues in the Rural and Islands Committee. In conclusion, although I am skeptical about introducing action zones according to the Norwegian model in Denmark, it may of course be sensible to look at the advantages and disadvantages of such a model. And I am generally very open to seeking inspiration for other good rural policy initiatives in our neighbouring countries. I also welcome the fact that Parliament shares the great interest in rural policy, and I see that we have many good common intentions about development outside the major cities, and I see Parliament's Committee on Rural Development and Islands in particular as a key and important sparring partner in my work as a minister for rural areas and further work on giving rural areas the necessary political boost. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213101532	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is now possible for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteurs, i.e. a brief comment of a maximum duration of one minute. The questioner has so far asked for this, and it is Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213101549	Thank you very much. I would also like to acknowledge that I know that the Minister has a heart that is passionate about rural areas. We ourselves have a past together on the Rural Committee, so I have no doubt about that, and it is nice to see and confirm that. What is a bit awkward is that it was a little funny that in my speech I could actually predict that some people below it ended up being the minister consciously misunderstood it as if we were going to transfer it one to one from Norway to Denmark. I must say very strongly that I know the difference between the two countries, both economically and geographically, and I know that this is not what we are talking about. We are talking about inspiration in relation to action zones. That is why I was also pleased when the Minister finally said that he was open to seeking inspiration. There I would like to hear something about the measures that we have already taken for rural areas. If, in principle, we had drawn a line and said that there should be action zones where we in the Danish People's Party propose it, they would all have benefited from it and there would have been no difference. But this is about saying that we have some areas of action here, and so far there will be no one in rural areas who will be outside the action zones, in that it applies both to rural and to peripheral municipalities. What does the Minister think about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213101707	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213101708	Forgive me if I have misunderstood the question. But just this for a start: it is quite explicit in relation to mentioning examples such as reducing su-debt etc., so there are many of the elements that are also shown on the screen here, which are directly the same. Therefore, I think it was relevant to go in and say that there are actually some differences between our student loan system in Denmark and Norway, which means that if you choose this approach, you get some other incentives. However, I think we share more than we may just be experiencing in this debate, namely that we have to dare to deal with different areas differently in order to make them equal in terms of opportunities. That is where my political burning heart as a Social Democrat is strongest: it is to create equal opportunities. There we look at many of the things that can reverse centralisation. I would say that the whole of the Nærhed back-play is still a great inspiration to me in the further work I have to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213101811	The next question is Mr. Peter Juel-Jensen-Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213101813	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Minister for some good ideas on how to move forward here. However, I would like to make a few comments. Like the Minister, I am very concerned that our LAG system works and so on. I think the Minister is a little decorated with borrowed feathers when the Minister goes out and says they have returned 30 million. kr., because basically it was money that the previous government had secured there because it was unspent funds. So you actually just fed the dog your own tail. I think the Minister forgets to put that in. I agree with the Minister that there are many outstanding issues on the LAG scheme, both when it comes to ensuring that it is less bureaucratic, but also when we have to get out of what is actually the middle-funding morass, which is a major obstacle to the LAG groups out there. The arrangement is heavy to dance with and chases away fire souls. So one thing is that we have got some more money in it, but there is in fact the greatest task, namely to ensure that it is much less bureaucratic, plus that it also works significantly faster. There we have a joint task in getting it lifted. Then I am a little surprised, because you can say all the right things, Minister, and now the President stands up, so I will wait with my question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213101926	The President stands up because one minute has passed, and that is why it is the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213101931	Now I am starting with the positive: I am pleased that we share the ambition to promote rural development. I also share the ambition to constantly organise not only our entire public sector, but also the system of LAGs as effectively as we can. Fortunately, the good people in the Danish Business Authority are already well at work, and we were collectively informed about this, as we had the opportunity to see a cozy evening hour for our first such official meeting, committee and minister between. So it's my feeling that it's in good shape. I have to give a little back anyway, because I feel no need to dress up with borrowed feathers if they are from the Left to come in relation to the LAG scheme. I should just like to remind you quietly who cut the LAG scheme by 30% when the agricultural package was to be financed at the time. The fact that you have not had a drain on some of the money, which was, after all, targeted the environmental measures that were intended to compensate for the agricultural package, then you have to take an assessment of what you think is out in the whole country. But I am very proud that this government has returned the funds to the LAG scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213102035	The next question is Mr. Sikandar Siddique from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213102039	Thank you, Minister. I think this is an important debate that the Danish People's Party has raised. In the alternative, we have made a whole project about rural areas, and I would like to hear from the Minister whether, before moving on with these action zones, we could do what we call a centre for local knowledge sharing for rural areas, where you had a national knowledge centre, where you brought together stakeholders, different organisations, municipalities, experts in a council, and where you could then draw up a larger plan for how to cope with these rural areas. You could also use this knowledge centre to share experiences across municipalities. Isn't that an idea you could start with?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213102137	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213102139	Thanks for the words. I remain sceptical about the action zones as a one-to-one model, but I think it is good to assess the advantages and disadvantages of it. So I fully agree with the questioner that it may be sensible to do so. There are a number of different players in this area. There is, of course, the Centre for Rural Research, where I am pleased that we have made a very broad agreement to be able to put in a stable funding framework; there we promote some access to knowledge. I also think we all have a wish that this is how I saw it in the negotiations, at least, that the knowledge should be used, that it should be shared. It should not be on the shelves of the research offices; it should be distributed so that it can be an inspiration for the outermost regions which can benefit from it. Having said all that, I would still say, as I said in my speech, that rural areas are so many-faceted and their challenges and, what to say, benefits, that is, their strengths, are so different that I do not believe that there is a one size fit all-model. It should not make it possible to share experience, but I think we should just pay close attention to the fact that the country, although it is a small country we live in, still has very different areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213102251	The next question is Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213102253	Thank you. Food production or food clusters are one of the strong ones, and a great many jobs in rural areas are based on this. Now a climate law has just been passed and there should be no doubt that we in the New Citizens' Party are deeply concerned that the measures that are going to be taken in this area will hit these rural areas hard. Because if we punish agriculture even more, this production will be moved out to some countries that then have a higher CO2 so it will not help anything compared to the total CO2 but I would like to hear what the Minister will do to ensure rural areas, even when you look into a climate plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213102337	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213102338	Thank you very much for a very, very important and also relevant question, because it is of course touching two things. It touches the risk. If you go too tight and too hard and too unintelligent for the green transition, you risk carbon leakage and you move jobs out of the country. It may look good on CO2 That's why it's important and it's also part of the Climate Act that the entire competitiveness perspective and our companies are in focus. This is how the handling of the risk side of a climate law is done, and I think the parties of the Folketing have done so with the way principles have been put into the climate law. The other side of the coin is also that there are huge potentials. I believe that our food production and our businesses have a business adventure ahead of them in the green transition, and at least today the green jobs are not all centred on the big cities. There are, after all, many green jobs out there, which we, who will not say Udkantsdanmark, call Production Denmark. So I believe that the green transition can be a gain, including for our rural areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213102447	The next question is Mrs Mona Juul, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213102449	Thank you. After all, it is no secret that we really lack labour in a great many situations, not only in rural areas, but also in very many towns and cities. I am thinking of rural areas, where we know that it can be a little difficult to keep people or get people to move back, that we also have the opportunity to demand better foreign labour with exactly the skills we want to use there. Is that also something the Minister will be looking at in relation to this point?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213102516	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213102517	I think that a very good financial law agreement has been drawn up, in which there is also the possibility of being able to look into that particular issue. I just want to address it anyway. If we are to be able to provide qualified labour to our companies, our education system is, in my view, one of the key tools in this context, and if I therefore choose to highlight today that we have cancelled the re-priority contribution, which cuts our education, vocational training and so on, then it is because I also believe that an increase in precisely the vocational school sector can contribute to the availability of skilled labour. After all, we have to touch this question of whether there is a future mismatch in our labour market. Will there be too many people who alone have an unskilled background in which companies demand something more? There is our education system, including our vuc centres, many of which have been shut down, an opportunity to deliver answers to some of the challenges.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213102620	Thus all the rapporteurs who wanted a brief comment to be made here to the Minister have received an answer to them. Thank you, Minister. We shall now proceed to the debate, and therefore also to the general rules for short remarks, so that rapporteurs can make two brief comments, one minute and then 1⁄2 minutes respectively. This is now the rapporteur of the questioners, and that is Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker from the Danish People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213102651	Thank you. In both the year 2016 and the year 2017, according to the World Happiness Report, we were elected the happiest people in the world, and in 2018 and 2019 we were unfortunately overtaken by Finland, but we are still the second to this day. We're still almost the happiest people in the world, and you know what, Realdania has made a study that has shown that the happiest Danes live in the country. This means that the happiest of the happiest people in the world live in the Danish rural areas, and we as rural rapporteurs are fortunate enough to work with them. I think that is highly privileged. It is just a little bit more fun to be rural rapporteur here in Denmark than it is to be in South Sudan, which was the least happy country in the world. I myself am one of the happiest people in the world, according to the two reports. I live in an outer municipality, the municipalities of Southern Jurs, in a small town, Tirstrup, of 500 inhabitants, and I just have to say that I recognize it all from my village. I recognize the fact that we love to help each other, that we love to be social with each other, and that we come up with a lot of things, so that our little village just has to be a really, really nice place to live. This is also true of other rural areas and islands. At least that's what I get to see when I visit them. What the media is writing about, and what we politicians have to deal with, is everything that does not work in rural areas, unfortunately at the cost that people then think it is quite terrible to live in rural areas and islands because they only hear bad about them in the press. But those of us who live in rural areas, and those of us who are rural rapporteurs here and are often around the country, in rural areas and on the islands, know better. But what does not work, of course, we must make it work. We must ensure that there is proper mobile and broadband coverage throughout the country; we must ensure proper educational opportunities throughout the country; we must ensure that state jobs are spread evenly throughout the country; we must ensure that there are no parameters other than one's economy on which one is measured when one wants to buy a house in one of the areas where the happiest of the happiest people in the world live. But that is a lot, and it is extensive, and we must take it one step at a time. What I am calling for today is that we draw together some lines on the Danish map and say that here are the action zones, that here are the zones where we will make an extra effort in the coming years. What the effort should be is something we discuss together later, but it could, for example. be saying that in the action zones we will equate students with the working people, so that they also receive a transport allowance, that in the action zones we will grant state-guaranteed loans, that the action zones must be the first place where we make full broadband and mobile coverage. We can fill anything in it, and we can do it over a number of years, and then we can close the action zones afterwards when we think we have achieved the desired result. So in this way it is only the imagination that sets the limit. The areas that I would like to see to be action zones are the 27 small islands, these are the five islands, the rural municipalities, and these are the outermost municipalities. For that is where development lags behind on most parameters, and we can also do it differently. Because the Minister is absolutely right when he says that in rural areas we cannot make one size fits all-models because they are as different as they are. So we can also say within the action zones that we designate the 27 small islands or the five islands in order to do some special work here. We can do whatever it needs to be. So with the wish that together we can make Denmark's happiest people in the world's second happiest country even happier, I hope that my good and also happy rural colleagues here on a cozy Friday morning in December will support the Danish People's Party's proposal, which reads: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament invites the government to appoint rural, peripheral and island municipalities and the 27 Danish small islands as action zones and, in cooperation with relevant rural actors, to identify which initiatives can be taken to support and promote the development of the areas mentioned. V 33). Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213103201	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a proposal for adoption which will be included in the further negotiations. It's first, sir. Sikandar Siddique, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213103211	Thank you to the rapporteur. In the alternative, we think it is an important debate, an important debate that the Danish People's Party is travelling here. When I had to prepare the debate with my intern Emil, Emil caught something here in the game in relation to the reduction of su-debt. Emil says: can it really have the opposite effect: that the incentive to reduce one's sugar debt is really going to mean that young people are raising a su-debt because one knows that one can later put it down if one moves out to rural areas? Has the rapporteur examined whether that scheme could have such an effect?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213103300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213103301	For example, a write-off of the student debt could be made. be with 10%. or 5%, for each year you lived in one of the action zones. If you want to write off your student debt, you have to pay it back, no matter what, and then you have to have a job so you can pay back your student debt. If they move to an area where there is no work, then it is also difficult for them to pay it back, so I have a little difficulty in seeing the economic incentive for it. This must, of course, be followed by other good measures, where there are also good job opportunities.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213103335	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213103336	Thank you for your answer, rapporteur. Following on from the possible issue, our intern Emil then asks: Why not create better opportunities for entrepreneurs instead, so that young entrepreneurs, for example. can receive an entrepreneurial allowance? Wasn't that a better option?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213103403	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213103404	I would therefore only urge the rapporteur to welcome his intern Emil and say that he sounds very clever. I think it sounds like a great idea. After all, this is a fantastic example of what the alternative is for something that we could also fill in the action zones. So I will be quite open to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213103421	The next question is Mrs Mona Juul, Conservative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213103423	Thank you. After all, there are many of us who do not live in the big cities, and it is extremely difficult when you come here at Christiansborg, where you have to travel back and forth. But it is a choice that is always made, and what my question is about is: has the rapporteur calculated what the economic consequences here will be of reducing one and the other and where the money will actually come from?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213103445	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213103446	There is no concrete proposal for anything that has economic consequences. There is a proposal for action zones, which is that we say that we want to make some specific measures here. Then there are some examples of what it might be, but that is something that we must discuss together. What we have to decide now is whether it is a good idea or not a good idea to have action zones.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213103509	Mrs. Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213103509-2	I just have to say that, in order for me to think something is a good idea or a bad idea, we need to have some financial framework on it. We have to find out where it is we have to take money from in order to be able to put it into something else. We can easily have a fundamental discussion about what we are going to do with rural areas, and I clearly sense that everyone wants to do something, but the economy needs to be included.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213103530	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213103531	Yeah, that's right. We say that we now have some zones here where we will make an extra effort, and we then say that we here around the table and in cooperation with the Minister and relevant rural organisations have to find out what it is that needs to be filled in in relation to the action zones. That is where we have to take a position on economic matters. That is where we have to go down the fuck in the concrete examples. Right now, it's kind of about saying if it's a good idea, or it's not a good idea for us to make these zones.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213103601	The next question is Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen-Andersen, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213103604	Thank you. I think it was nice that the rapporteur started by telling us that we who live in the countryside are happy. I live in the country a lot, too. Actually, you can see where I live when you look down at the picture that's in the back. I actually live behind the trees on the right. Having said that, I would like to say that the Minister has said a great many good things. I think so. But I understand that perhaps the rapporteur has now begun to put some interpretation into what is a text in relation to the question here and to spread it out a little more. I think that's fair enough. There are a lot of good thoughts. I can hear that, too. What I'm having problems with is that it's probably the minister who has it, but now I'm asking anyway that this is going to cost a lot of money. I can hear that. Has the rapporteur considered how these zones are to be financed with all the measures that the rapporteur has put forward for the time being?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213103704	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213103705	I find it difficult to see how it costs a great deal of money to say that here we have the areas: the 27 small islands, the 5 islands, rural municipalities and outlying municipalities, and these are the areas where we can make an extra effort. The fact that we say that does not cost anything in itself. What costs money is what we have to fill in. These are the initiatives that we must take into account and which each of us will then discuss. I look forward to that, moreover, in the hope that the Socialists will support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213103740	Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213103741	Thank you. It was just a little too cheap, but okay, fair enough. The rapporteur may not have considered it so much, but then the rapporteur can consider it right now, because next week we will actually be voting on the Finance Act. And there we are, for example. in the situation that the government has proposed to abolish the re-priority contribution in relation to vocational training courses. How, then, does the Danish People's Party vote in relation to it? Because this is a step in the right direction, too, in relation to some of the things we are talking about here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213103808	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213103809	Well, that's what we're gonna do in the Finance Law debate on Wednesday, that's how we vote in relation to whether we vote in favour or against the entire Finance Act. There are certainly good elements in it and there are also elements that we find it difficult to take.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213103827	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for any further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Lennart Damsbo-AndersenAndersen from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213103843	Thank you for that, President. First of all, I'm gonna have to run the microphone down a little bit, I see. And thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising the question here in this important debate. And thank you for giving us the opportunity to discuss rural development and the measures needed to create development and growth throughout Denmark and balance in Denmark. In the social democracy we are deeply concerned about restoring a Denmark in balance. The centralisation of recent years, as then Minister of Interior Lars Løkke Rasmussen together with among others. The Danish People's Party started the municipal reform, has not only meant the closure of town halls and libraries around Denmark. It's almost started a tsunami that's been raging all over the country. Local police stations have been closed, hospitals closed down, local courthouses removed, closed vocational training courses closed, teacher seminars, nursing schools, teacher training schools closed, and I could stay around all over Denmark, with the result that everywhere outside the big cities there is a great distance to almost everything, education, welfare and public service, but also a great distance to decision-makers. At the same time, when you experience population decline, empty dwellings that are falling and unsellable, you easily get the impression that there is not much working outside the big cities. And I do not know whether the parties that voted with the Danish People's Party for the municipal reform had considered what was being set in motion. However, we can ask the rapporteurs about this in a moment. In the Social Democratic Party we have set out to reverse the negative developments and take action to restore balance in Denmark. And there is plenty to be built on, because despite all the misconceptions I have just mentioned, life and optimism flourish in rural areas. The rapporteurs can probably confirm that they have already done so. There is a very great will and ability out there to do something about things. But equal opportunities must be created to get education close to where one lives; to have one's own personal physician; to get to the hospital quickly if the accident is out; to get the police when needed; to get finance for the house shopping if one wants to buy or sell; to get one's kids into the local public school or kindergarten; to get everything that the citizens of the big cities take for granted, but which the centralization wave has done to something one has to look at in many places in the directory. When the questioner asks the Minister whether action zones are a good idea, it must be an expression of the fact that the Danish People's Party thinks that it is an excellent idea to do as in Norway, where special conditions are offered, for example if you take work far away, for example. as far north as Tromsø. Yes, I have to say, for my part, that Denmark is too small a size for us to compare with Norway in this way. Because I understand that if we had rural areas that were as far away from Copenhagen as Tromsø is from Oslo, then that was another talk. But then we wanted to talk about areas located west of Edinburgh in Scotland, east of Helsinki in Finland and south of Lyon in France. And that's not exactly part of Denmark. Having said that, it is true that in certain places there are problems in filling certain posts in order to go directly to the text we are talking about. However, this is not solved by reducing the amount of su-debt; a number of measures need to be taken, as I have already described. And I look forward to having an opportunity both in the Rural Committee and in this Chamber to discuss them. Then, on behalf of S, RV, SF, EL and ALT, I would like to read out a proposal for adoption, and it is this: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that there are areas in Denmark where development and progress are not as positive as in the rest of the country. Development must be helped on the way here. The Danish Parliament takes the challenges seriously and is concerned that Denmark is not pulled in the wrong way. The Danish Parliament therefore expects the proposal on the advantages and disadvantages of the Norwegian action municipalities to be identified and that later in the parliamentary term the government will present a political proposal that will support and promote rural development and which will include experience from a number of other countries, including Norway, in the preparation of the project. • V 34).
ParlaMint-DK_20191213104333	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is another proposal for adoption which will be included in the further negotiations. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The first one's from sir. Peter Juel-Jensen-Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213104343	Thank you. I could understand that the rapporteur was not the great supporter of municipal reform. Could the rapporteur not try to tell us what kind of hospitals they are and where they lie, as the rapporteur would like to see reopened? What are the municipalities that have been abolished and which the rapporteur would like to see returned to, and when will the rapporteur do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213104407	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213104407-2	Thank you. I was not present in the debates that took place at the time on municipal reform. There I sat as mayor of the small municipality, which there are actually excellent pictures from down here in the Chamber, and the Social Democratic Party voted against the municipal reform. So it's basically just the entrance that's for it. I haven't talked in my speech here about what needs to be reopened either. I am just talking about the fact that there has been a development in the wake of the municipal reform, which I do not think anyone has been able to foresee, but that we have to deal with it as things stand today.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213104449	Sir. Peter Juel-Jensen-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213104450	So the rapporteur strongly disagrees with the municipal reform, but will not change the state of affairs, because that makes no sense. However, the rapporteur also said that the municipal reform contributed to the difficulty of some rural areas. Is it to be understood that the rapporteur will not help rural areas? So, I also come from a rural area, and I can see that the municipal reform has provided better health care, better municipal treatment and better special educational treatment for citizens in rural areas. The background to the municipal reform was basically that one was not specialized enough, that one was not skilled enough. You weren't good enough to treat the patients. So, in fact, local government reform has so much strengthened our rural areas in quality areas. Then it is true that, of course, the politicians have gone further, and we must then try to rethink and mitigate the consequences of that. But when you say that municipal reform is the root of all evil, I strongly disagree, and if you have that attitude, you must also say what you want to change.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213104545	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213104545-2	Nor have I said that municipal reform is the root of all evil. I just note what the reality is, namely that after and in connection with the municipal reform there has been a development and I understand that the rapporteur would like to talk about this. I think it is more important to talk about what can then be done afterwards. And the question is precisely whether to create action zones or whether to do some other thing. I have outlined some other solutions which do not necessarily stand in the way of creating action zones as well. However, I understand that the rapporteur feels that he has been overstepping his toes because he has been one who has voted in favour of the municipal reform. I can't really do anything about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213104628	The next question is Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213104632	I fully acknowledge that communication can be a very, very difficult thing. I also recognise that there are more than 1,700 km from Oslo to Tromsø and that we are not talking about the same proportions. That is why I would just like to ask the rapporteur: after I have given my rapporteur's speech and the answer to questions on two occasions, is the rapporteur at least in doubt or is it just a game?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213104707	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213104707-2	No, I have now listened to the rapporteur's speech and I have also listened to what the rapporteur has replied to the questions that have been asked. So, no, I completely understand that. But I think it would actually have been much more interesting to start this discussion somewhere else and start by examining what the consequences would be of creating action zones. It will then follow now, and that is also fine, but I think that the order would have been more correct if we had examined it first and taken the debate afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213104738	Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213104739	What are the consequences of the fact that we take the 27 small islands, the five islands, the rural municipalities and the outermost municipalities and say that we will make an extra effort here and that we will then sit together and find out what the content should be?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213104757	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213104758	Well, it is already the case today that there are different rights, depending on which municipality you live in, whether it is a rural or urban municipality. Now the Minister mentioned the LAG, but we also, I don't know whether it's called the village pool or the demolition pool we can call it what we want to do, which only certain municipalities can use. So there are already measures today which are different, depending on where you are, and I would say that wherever you set a limit, there are always some who feel neglected because they are just on the other side of that limit and maybe have the same conditions. That is why I think this is a really difficult discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213104831	Then it is Mrs Jane Heitmann from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213104834	Thank you. The rapporteur mentions that municipal reform is responsible for the closure of hospitals. I think that is a very exciting approach. The rapporteur is well aware that it is not us in Christiansborg who close hospitals, it is not the municipalities, it is the regions. But the rapporteur can, if he can, list what kind of hospitals he thinks we have closed here at Christiansborg. What I really want to ask is whether it is still social democratic policy that we should have proximity hospitals.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213104910	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213104911	I'll answer the last one first: yes, it is. However, with regard to the second part, I would like to say that a lot of things have happened since the municipal reform, and some of them we, as Social Democrats, have also voted in favour of. So it's no part of losing responsibility. I am just saying that a movement has started in connection with the municipal reform, which has meant a lot of things. Decisions have been taken here in the Folketing with various governments, and decisions have been taken in the regions and elsewhere. And they may have come over time anyway, but at least they have been speeded up because of the fact that we had the municipal reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213104948	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213104948-2	Could the rapporteur then tell us a little about what kind of treatment should be carried out in these nearby hospitals? What we have been able to read is that, for example, this is the case. is knee surgery that you'd like to move out. I haven't heard the Medical Association or any other professional company be excited about that idea. In fact, I think most people think that it will be two steps forwards and one backwards, precisely because today we have a highly specialised hospital service where high quality treatment can be obtained. And it has been a challenge, since we had the small hospitals in the past, to provide staff. So the rapporteur could not tell us a little about what kind of treatments are to be carried out in these small nearby hospitals and whether, as a Dane, we can be comfortable with the treatments that are to be carried out? And how are you going to get staff?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213105037	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213105038	After all, I am the rural rapporteur, and I am very concerned that we are getting well-being and that is for example. hospital treatment also goes as far as possible, so that the people who live in rural areas can feel, as I also described in my rapporteur's speech, just as well served as the people who live right here in the middle of Copenhagen. And then I think it is an excellent discussion that can be held in the Health Committee and with the Minister for Health on what kind of treatments, for example, should be available in the nearby hospitals, which are then probably decided by this government.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213105112	The next question is Mr. Morten Messerschmid, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213105115	Thank you for that, President. I have followed the debate here a little from the back ranks and can see that the Social Democrat rapporteur is not quite crazy about dealing with the old brother country, Norway. One has to acknowledge that geography is of course something else, but many of the challenges that some parts of Norway have, you can recognize around in parts of Denmark. This is in relation to being able to attract qualified labour, etc. That is why I am rather puzzled and annoyed by the fact that they are so categorically saying that we should not use those experiences. What I'm wondering is, is whether Mr. Keen... Lennart Damsbo-AndersenAndersen actually speaks on behalf of the entire Danish Social Democratic Party, because when I have been around talking to mayors in the very country belonging to the same party, one has been quite different in favour of the tactics that lie in the Danish People's Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213105209	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213105210	At least I speak for the Social Democratic Party at Christiansborg, to answer that part of it. I am, in fact, fully aware that in some parts of the country I have also said this in my rapporteur's speech that there may be problems, for example. to provide skilled labour. But my answer and that of the party will be that we must ensure that there are training courses as close as possible to where they are to be used. We must ensure that we have vocational training as far out as possible so that we can obtain qualified labour there. This also applies to welfare education, which is perhaps the most important. Then I know that there may also be areas in which, for example, we can find ourselves. lack of engineers, but the way in which engineering training has been established in e.g. Kalundborg, shows that this can be done, and if you have some places where there are no specific ones, you can move some courses out there. The way things are done, the government is working on it. Whether it's the case that we start saying that because you can't get engineers in Esbjerg or Ringkøbing, we have to leave it tax-free to be an engineer out there, I don't know if that's the right answer. I believe more that securing education out there is more right.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213105324	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213105325	I fully agree that it is extremely important that we have as decentralised a training sector as possible, but I just do not understand how Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen-Andersen may think that the fact that you can train in a decentralised way and throughout the country makes it easy to recruit the workforce. The fact is that people typically want to move to the areas where they can get the best working conditions or the best family conditions or whatever. So the fact that there are courses does not in itself mean that there is also access to labour, but it does exactly what they have done in Norway. And it could be on the tax ticket that you have to screw. It could be in relation to su-debt. It could be some of these things. What puzzles me is that when I sit and talk to social democratic mayors who have huge problems recruiting labour for their companies, the Socialist rapporteur at Christiansborg just says: that is not my table.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213105411	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213105412	Of course, we take it very seriously if there are any issues. But they certainly haven't called me and told me. That's fair enough. On the subject of where to train and where to work, this is actually one of the things we have examined in the Rural Committee in the last period. It is actually very well documented that it is the case that where you train, the vast majority will also settle and work. We are talking about that approx. 80% of the people who train somewhere, also subsequently settle and work there.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213105447	The next question is Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213105450	I just wanted to ask: if you care about rural areas, why do you make a financial law that makes corporate cars more expensive? It's people out there who need company cars to get back and forth and visit the customers. If you're going to live a little further outside the cities, you need a car so you can get back and forth. Why do you make company cars more expensive?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213105508	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213105509	Now I think that living in rural areas is about something other than how the taxation of corporate cars is or by leasing them. The last thing I think is what can be crucial if I am not very wrong. Now I look down at the Minister, because I am not quite in the details of that. I have not heard a single trader in my area who has called me and said: now we must close the store; nothing can work anymore.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213105536	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213105537	Transport matters, and public transport is not an option when you live a little outside the big cities. So when you punish people for having a company car to get to work, that's what you do, because you do it more expensively, and I hope the rapporteur recognizes that this is what has been done in this Finance Act, you also make it more expensive to work in a profession where you need a company car. Because you're going to drive several kilometers in it, which is why the leasing car becomes potentially more expensive when you live in rural areas. That is why you punish people living in rural areas and you punish entrepreneurs and people who need a company car by making them more expensive, and that will harm rural areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213105615	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213105616	Fortunately, we have for the most part arranged it in this country that the legislation we are making applies to the whole country. Now it has been mentioned that we need to have action zones, and I understand that the questioner is, as it were, suggesting here that company cars should be duty-free or something like that. It may of course be a good discussion to have, but at first sight I think it is very good that there are similar rules all over the place.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213105640	So there are no further brief comments to the rapporteur. So thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party, and that is the rural rapporteur Mr. Peter Juel-Jensen-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213105656	Thank you for that, President. I welcome the fact that we have the opportunity to talk about rural areas today. So thank you to the Danish People's Party for that. We have achieved a great deal in a relatively short time, but we are not in the end. We have come a bit, both with regard to the relocation of state jobs, the principle of road transport and the law on plans and many other initiatives. But all over the globe the larger cities grow as small communities shrink. Urbanisation is one of the most dominating forces of our time. In Denmark, urbanisation means that socio-economic differences between the country and the city become apparent. The previous government, with the initiative and the subsequent agreement on growth and development throughout Denmark, started a development that has meant that in 2019 there was an increase in employment in 98 out of 98 municipalities. This is important because nobody or very few move to a rural area unless you have the opportunity to find a job. Things are connected, including in rural areas. Then you want a development with increased growth and employment and thus settlement, you need some kind of positive discrimination for, and this is where the discussion about action zones comes in after Norwegian and Swedish model. But we also have to accept that there is no quick fix, and there is no one size fits all, even as far as action zones are concerned. Very many handles need to be screwed, and the action zones are one of them. It is therefore a clear expectation that when the government gets into working clothes and gets followed up with initiatives to promote our rural areas, initiatives that support the positions of strength and the direction that you as a rural area would like to see for yourself, and in a direction that is not bureaucratic, heavy or difficult to do, so that it straines our rural areas and the souls of fire out there, we have the opportunity to push forward further on positive development. So the Left is positive about targeted measures that can help push a development in the right direction. But action zones do not do so alone. Basically, Denmark and the Danes' economy, the municipalities' economy are closely connected vessels. So we have to make sure that the measures we are taking bring growth and development, not only in rural areas, islands and islands, but throughout Denmark. Because basically we're evening each other out. So let us set a common direction so that we have growth and development throughout the country and that we have a direction that makes Denmark grow, because when Denmark grows, we all get richer. Then I have a proposal for adoption, I would like to read out on behalf of the Left and the Conservative People's Party: proposals for adoption • It must be an important political priority for the Folketing that there is a good framework for growth and development in rural areas and that growth reaches all parts of the country. This requires active political action and attention. Danish rural areas have many strong potentials, and rural development over recent years shows positive trends. With increased attention, great results can be achieved both in terms of employment and attractiveness, which is a prerequisite for increased settlement. With the growth and development of Denmark as a whole from November 2015 we managed to create a positive agenda for rural areas and our islands, one of the tools was targeted and it has proved to be a useful tool. The parties behind this proposal for adoption call on the government to consider, in all circumstances, initiatives that promote growth and employment and shield our rural and island communities from legislation that moves in the other direction. V 35.)
ParlaMint-DK_20191213110107	Thank you. Proposals for adoption have now been notified. This will be part of the further debate. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213110124	Thank you for the initiative for this excellent debate. We would, of course, like to help radically in promoting rural development. After all, we would like to do this and necessarily do so in close dialogue with rural areas. However, as the proposal suggests, we will not be helping to set up action zones with special tax rules or depreciation rules or anything else that applies to a geographical location. Norway is mentioned as an example. Norway is immensely large, Norway is immensely wealthy. I have long since stopped comparing Denmark with Norway, when there are various debates coming up we could not do as Norway? However, I recognise the basic thinking of both Sweden and Norway in their outskirts, where it is said that it should cost more to maintain activity in an area that is immensely far away. You don't mind that it costs more to run a public school in a town far away than inside a city, because it does. And can you not have a school out there? Of course you can't. This is very illustrative of the handles that I would like to get for rural areas. It's about education. I think we should prevent more training closures such as the one we saw in Rudkøbing earlier this year, which happened after DF's support for the previous government's re-priority contribution. Would you rather have kept your hf and your vuc in Rudkøbing, or would you rather have an action zone? I have no doubt. It is, of course, local access to education that is one of the foundations of being able to have an active settlement in the countryside. As the Minister also suggested, I would very much like to help turn the LAG funds back up again. These are some of the measures that have been taken in the hand that have been chosen to ignore. It would be much better to recycle them than to start getting new, innovative proposals like this with the action zones. But a lot needs to happen. Because there is no doubt that I share the analysis that the Minister gave and that the organisers also made that something should happen and that we have a Denmark where there are large parts of the country where the activity is too poor. I would also like to take part in listening to the good examples, as I said, not the Northern Norwegian model. As far as labour is concerned, I have to say that we have extremely modest unemployment, as it looks today in Denmark, and there are measures in the Finance Act that provide better opportunities to recruit labour abroad. I personally believe that is the most direct contribution we can make to the current recruitment situation of businesses in rural areas. So many of the handles to be used are not covered by the proposal, such as action zones. So I have to say that we say no to the specific wording. We agree with the text which was read out by the Social Democrats, and we look forward to starting this work in the coming period in order to address the problem that lies at the root of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213110411	There is a question from Mr. Peter Juel-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213110413	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for a fine speech by the rapporteur. When I stand up, it is because I too would like to pay tribute not only to the rapporteur but also to the rapporteur's party for sticking to the agenda that, in other words, we are constantly being forced to ensure that we have enough labour. For the first areas in Denmark that notice that you do not have enough labour when the workforce gets scarce, rural areas are because many are drawn to the big cities. So it is good that the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party keep that agenda high wherever you have the opportunity. Thank you. Then I have a supplementary question. We can agree that we are happy that the re-priority contribution got away. It was also in our proposal to Finance Act, but not only does it. Because in rural areas, educational institutions also need to pay for shadow pupils, etc. Are these some ideas in which we go out and reward slashing taking into account the fact that we have some other challenges in rural areas that the rapporteur's party will bring in when and if we are going to talk about taximeter reform in youth education, and is this something the rapporteur's party wants to push on so that we can have better opportunities to have educational institutions in rural areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213110527	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213110530	Thank you to the questioner. With regard to the first, namely the labour force, I have to say that I remember the first time I heard about the problem of not having specialists in the countryside, but today it is the case that there are places in rural areas where you cannot have ordinary experts in quite trivial areas. After all, it has spread from being very small niches to being very large recruitment difficulties that you have in the outermost regions. And, of course, we try to keep on addressing this issue with all available means when we talk about exactly that agenda. With regard to the second, I can only confirm that we recognise that when we have to have local educational institutions, we also have to accept that it actually costs more per year. We must take this into account when making the economy for these institutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213110615	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more questions. And the next in the series of rapporteurs is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213110632	When we talk about rural development, we are talking first and foremost about all the challenges, but I think we should also bear in mind that many things are happening in rural areas that are exciting in these years. And in some places there is actually progress in some islands and in some areas because there are more people who can see the quality of living outside the large city centres with more space, nature and clean air around them, but also because the new technology offers more and more opportunities to work from home. But we also know that this is far from being the case for everyone, and that is why we still have great challenges in obtaining skilled labour in a number of outermost regions. There are places where the health service lacks doctors and nurses in a wide range of hospitals outside the largest university cities; there is the offshore industry in Esbjerg, which lacks engineers, and this has also been the case for Vestas in Nakskov. That is why we must make a special effort, both to train the lack of labour, but also to motivate the graduates to look for jobs in the outermost regions. We in the SF think it is very important for young people to be able to take an education in the outermost regions, among other things. As we have seen with the establishment of medical training in Esbjerg. In addition, however, it is also important that universities, professional academies and higher education schools retain their training opportunities outside the large cities and have satellite sites around the regions. In fact, we already proposed a relocation plan for education in 2015 because at that time we saw that it was easier to train an engineer locally than to move him from Copenhagen to South Jutland; we still think so. And since then, research has also supported the fact that if you are trained locally, it is also here that you find jobs. So I actually believe that the best settlement strategy is probably a retention strategy through several training courses in the outermost regions, because it puts a strain on young people moving into the very largest cities that are forced to do so in order to get an education. 'Cause they're gonna find a girlfriend there during the years of their education, and then they're not gonna come home again, unfortunately. I think that the Danish People's Party's proposal to create action zones in Norway is an exciting move, but I cannot assess the scope of it. But I think it's a good idea to have it examined and mapped out what we can use it for. I think it is worth mentioning in this context, and there are others who have done so too, that the peripheral problems are probably of a different nature in Norway, understood in the sense that there are actually 1,700 km from Oslo to Tromsø; there is an infrastructure that is characterized by mountains, harsh climate and a very low population density. So let us have the consequences of the proposal mapped out. So, what could it cost? Has the creation of action zones in Norway solved the problems of jobs • e.g. also for accompanying spouses? Because it's just as big a problem in terms of whether you want to move out and settle somewhere, whether you can both get a job. And I think we owe it to those questions to be resolved. Having said that, it is not because I do not think that more measures are needed to create growth and development in rural areas; there are particularly those places where there has been relocation and a shortage of skilled labour. We are going to look forward to the government's upcoming rural development initiative, and in this respect the SF would like to play along as always. As I have said, we have previously proposed better training opportunities in the outermost regions, better opportunities for credit counselling throughout Denmark, so more people dare settle down and buy the house and settle for better public transport and support for smaller schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213111033	Thank you. There are a few questions, and the first is from Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213111042	Thank you to the rapporteur. I would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur for recognising at the very beginning of the rapporteur's speech that things are actually going very well in rural areas and that the people who live out there are happy, just as I said myself in my rapporteur's speech. It is so super important that, when we talk about rural areas here at Christiansborg, we politicians are not just talking about everything that does not work, because fortunately, most of it works. I would then like to focus on what the rapporteur said about education. The thing about educating locally, I think, is a great idea. On one of the islands I visited, someone was taking an education from a university in California, and then I thought it might as well be that you can take an education on a Danish island from a university in California, but you can't do it from the University of Copenhagen. Would the rapporteur also, in cooperation with the Danish People's Party and the other parties, help to investigate the possibility that training locally could also easily be satellite training from the country's universities?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213111142	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213111146	I think it is important to play a broad palette when it comes to education, and I think it sounds really exciting that you can sit in Denmark and take an education as far away as the United States. And, of course, that should also be possible within our own borders. So let's finally get this mapped out. For there is no doubt that education is a really, really important parameter in maintaining settlements in peripheral areas, because if you are trained locally, you will also stay.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213111211	Then it's mr. Peter Juel-Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213111217	Thank you. I have two brief questions. The first is that the rapporteur's party has been given a completely different role after the elections. Will the rapporteur's party work actively and decisively to ensure that we continue the positive trend of relocation of state jobs when the rapporteur's party sits down with the government and talks about how to move forward from here? The next point is that, before the elections, the rapporteur's party was very keen on achieving the road principle. When do we see concrete action in this direction from the rapporteur's party?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213111243	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213111247	The road principle is still super positive about, and we also think that we should proceed with it. This, of course, requires an economy which is not entirely clear at this stage, but I think we should look into it. Then I think I've lost track of the other questions. There were more. Was it something about education? No, but the questioner has one more question. That fg. President No, the rapporteur has not. Peter Juel-Jensen It was relocation). Yes, it was relocation that was the password, please. I just lost track. I mean, I think relocation makes a great deal of sense if, among other things, it makes sense. can support the room, that is, if you have a special strength. But I think it will be an important parameter, that is to say, the fact that in future, when we create something, we will be wondering whether it will all have to be in Copenhagen. I do not think so, and that is why I think we should think very well when we create new institutions or functions: can it be more wise elsewhere where it supports locally?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213111349	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). Peter Juel-Jensen did not make any more brief remarks, but it was because Mr. Peter Juel-Jensen only joined with one question in the last round. But, of course, there are two questions for each. And now it's sir. Peter Juel-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213111403	I would like to say to the President-in-Office that my lamp is at least shining down here. I hope that the President has nothing personal against the poor rapporteur from the Left, because I think we have a good relationship! I mean, what I'm just asking is that when you're on the side with a little other cards to play with, you play them in a sensible way. When you put a lot of emphasis before the elections on the fact that we should now be in line with this road principle, I actually think there are a lot of people out there who expect SF to think the same after the elections as they did before the elections. And we are not lacking much because the previous government has done a huge amount of work in this area to achieve the road principle. Now I do not have the opportunity to play those cards anymore, but the rapporteur does. I hope the rapporteur will play those cards. With regard to the relocation of state jobs, I would like to say that increased settlement is, after all, the prerequisite for educational institutions, for schools, for tax bases for everything. That is why we are being forced to diversify our activities, and since there is so much congestion in the big cities, why not continue to use this obvious opportunity to ensure that there is growth and employment throughout the country? The rapporteur just has to answer yes and then work in that direction. It is not harder.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213111503	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213111507	Well, we will certainly be working for more initiatives in relation to rural areas. In fact, in 2015 we used our parliamentary powers to create a majority in favour of a report which was intended to draw up an action plan for the outermost regions. Unfortunately, I think that the work crumbled a little when the rapporteur's party took over the power of government. At least we never got the overall action plan for rural and peripheral areas. But it could be that we had to discuss whether we should resume this work together.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213111537	Then there are no more questions. Thank you to the rapporteur. And then we move on to the next rapporteur, sir. Henning Hylllested, to whom you have the right to ask two questions, of course. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213111553	Thank you. There is also a great deal of thanks and praise to the Danish People's Party and, above all, Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker for raising this debate. After all, we never had the broad fundamental debate on rural conditions in the last period, because because of the elections we never had the rural statement and the debate on it. So it is good that the question is raised here. Basically, we in the Enhedslist believe that economic incentives are good. They're useful, and they work. And that is why it is also quite clear that a scheme such as the Norwegian one with action zones can clearly serve as an inspiration. I mean, we're not just buying it for one, but I understand from the debate now that that's not what we're talking about either. But it can clearly serve as an inspiration. I would say that it is the case in Denmark that we are actually using financial incentives and that we are also using the funds targeted just as they are in Norway. So it is really only a question of the extent of it, and that in Norway you have a Norwegian scheme - yes, of course - and that we in Denmark do it the way we think is sensible. In his speech, the Minister mentioned a whole series of the targeted initiatives we are taking and the appropriations we are making: LAG funds, the transport allowance and the principle of road transport, which we have also implemented and which, of course, are also an expression of those things. So there are some things we are doing in advance, and what we are discussing is whether we are doing enough, and I suppose there is general agreement that we may not. Then, of course, we should be inspired by the fact that there are other places you do it in a different way, and I think that's fine. It's in Norway, it's in Sweden, it's around the world for that matter. Nor is it possible to avoid discussing the economy of the municipalities and regions at all in this situation, because it plays a huge role in what we have of opportunities around our rural areas. Rural areas are not such isolated islands, that is, isolated from the rest of society, and I think that one of the major problems is the iron grip that changing governments have had around and still have on the economy of the municipalities. This has helped to close schools around our villages; it has helped to reduce public transport quite dramatically and certainly in our outlying areas. In this respect, we will also have to discuss the compensation system, and we now know that there is a reform on the way to a much-needed reform. After all, the compensation scheme is a matter of redistributing between the municipalities in this country from rich to poor. It does not work as it currently exists. We look forward to a reform of the entire equalisation system, which will have an enormous impact on the economy that our outermost regions, that is, our outskirts, also have. We are just calling for it not to be a zero-sum game, but for new money to be actually added, otherwise we do not think we are going much further along that path. One might say that there is more to it than just financial incentives. One might almost say that just the fact that it is several times cheaper to settle outside the big cities, and not least in our outlying areas, should of course be a huge economic driver in terms of moving out into the outermost regions. However, this has not in itself helped to reverse developments, so it is not just financial incentives that need to be provided. In many ways, it is necessary to make it attractive to settle in rural and peripheral areas, and here we believe that education must first and foremost be talked about. It has already been mentioned by a number of rapporteurs that there is indeed a connection: if you do not have that far to your place of education, do not have as far to the education you want, then it also matters whether you later settle. So we very much think that we should look at that. We are quite ready to move courses out or establish new courses around • like whole courses, not necessarily just satellites and stations, and what it is called. That's where I think you should go with an open mind. We have seen that there are a number of problems with some of the educational institutions in the outermost regions, such as: They are merging and such things; they are actually being punished for that if they are not the right type. With regard to public transport, too, action must clearly be taken. There we encourage to look a little towards North Jutland, where you have come a long way with the idea of integrating the modes of transport and also ensuring that there is in fact a service completely out in the extreme plovfure yes, let's just call it that. So there are a lot of things that need to be done and we have an open mind about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213112102	There are questions from Mr. Peter Juel-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213112106	Thank you. I have almost written a whole page because the rapporteur said a lot of exciting things that I would like to keep the rapporteur to. Thank you for a fine speech from the rapporteur. One of the last things the rapporteur said was that you will be punished for it if you start joining forces as educational institutions in so-called campuses. I very much agree with the rapporteur on this point. From the fact that the institutions had their own basic amount in the past, if you join forces, you still have only one basic amount in the future, and that is from the day one. It's not very attractive. Now there are also campuses in rural areas that are beginning to say: if we are to ensure a youth environment, if we are to ensure a better economy, if we are to secure a full schedule for our teachers, should we not also start inviting our 10th classes inside? This is very, very difficult from a legislative point of view. Is this something that the rapporteur will help to look at?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213112154	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213112156	That sounds like a really exciting idea, and if there are some barriers and some things, some bureaucracy that makes it difficult today, then I think that is something we must try to overcome. Well, like I said, we have an open mind about it. Not least in the field of education, we think we should put everything we can at risk. It's more expensive. It is becoming more expensive to run education courses, whether it be primary schools, colleges, or whatever it is in a rural area where there is not the large student base, but you have to take it with you. There must then be economics for that, and there we have to talk about local economy, we have to talk about equalisation and so on. etc. But it sounds exciting.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213112235	Sir. Peter Juel-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213112237	Thank you. Now I really want to test the rapporteur's open mind, because the rapporteur also said that our rural areas are not closed islands. I think that was the rapporteur's expression. I very much agree with the rapporteur on this. Some of our rural areas are very dependent on an infrastructure, on being able to move, also if we are to get people to commute in and out, because we also want the highly paid, highly trained workforce into rural areas. Would it be possible, in the long term, to use some of the opportunities offered by the EU system to provide State aid for individual flights, so that residents may be given a discount in order to have to move by air to ensure that they have a customer base to maintain a flight, that it is made easier for skilled workers to move back and forth, both in terms of training but also in terms of being able to work and live in rural areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213112328	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213112332	Yes, you can hear that the rapporteur comes from Bornholm, and that is fine when we discuss rural areas; then we are also discussing it quite locally. No, I would say, it is not at the top of our agenda to start making state aid for air routes. We are much more concerned with making the service work at all, and there it was well-advised that I referred to precisely North Jutland, where we have come a very long way in this field. You have not finished at all, but you have come a very long way. I can also see and hear that they are beginning to learn from it around other regions.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213112404	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Mona Juul, Conservative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213112418	Thank you for the floor. And thank you to the Danish People's Party for the debate. It's nice with inspiration, also from Norway. I think it is interesting and I think it is relevant. I'm gonna make this really short. I think it is a debate that can be held at many times of the year and hopefully for a long time to come. It is also a debate that has probably existed long before we have been there. Because we have moved from country to city since the 1800s to look for jobs and to get training and perhaps enjoy the culture but also to get a little more pollution and a little more noise and sit a little longer in car cows and live so close that it can be difficult to be private. It is, after all, despite all the disadvantages that we are continuing to bring together more in the cities today. If you come from a very small town on the West Coast and go to Aarhus to study at the university, it is not certain that you will come back again, and that is your choice. Of course, this presents some challenges: yes, in both places, you can say, but perhaps mostly in the countryside, small towns and islands, where there is often a lack of jobs and education and perhaps also the life you want when you are young and want to build a family and move on in your life. Therefore, as I said, today's topic is extremely relevant, for who does not want a whole and coherent Denmark, a Denmark where we not only look at solutions for those who live a little close, but also recognise that action should be taken in relation to those areas where there is a long way between houses? And there is no doubt that, in the Conservative People's Party, we have already made more impressions, including in the area of health, about which we have not talked so much today, and which is, of course, an important prerequisite for the development that needs to be achieved. And we always want to take action, and we always want to help promote growth and to work for a Denmark in good and strong balance. We are also built in such a way that we would really like to have the economic element with • there is something we need more of in some areas, we would like to look at where it is, we need something less • unless we can prove that it is an investment. Otherwise, they are just birds on the roof, and they actually exist all over the country. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213112616	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions. The next one is sir. Sikandar Siddique, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213112629	Thank you for the floor. I know that the President is trying very hard to pronounce my name correctly, and we are almost there. It is pronounced Sikandar Siddique. That fg. President We'll try again next time). The alternative's vision for rural areas, islands and outermost regions is to create a serious, sustainable transition that promotes development from coast to coast, increases cohesion between country and city and ensures that you can live the good life and enter into meaningful communities in all parts of Denmark. We have seen a development in recent years which has increased the distance between the country and the city. In particular, the 2007 municipal reform, as well as increasing centralisation, new settlement patterns and job losses, have weakened rural capacity to maintain and attract citizens, institutions and businesses. It may be said that while many cities have experienced growth, growth and prosperity, many smaller cities have experienced the opposite. The reality is, of course, more nuanced. Some rural areas and islands, for example, are: well in the process of conversion to renewable energy, while others are experiencing increasing interest from nature lovers, business and tourists. As a society, we must generally learn better from the good examples, but we must also dare to face up to the truth and recognise that in many rural and peripheral areas and islands, the same positive developments have not benefited from the same positive developments as in and around the large cities. DF proposes so-called action zones to correct the balance, and I can understand the idea. However, I hope that we can solve the challenges without dividing our country into more zones and creating even greater divisions between the country and the city. I would like to contribute to discussing measures that can create more life in our rural areas, and we have also had 38 concrete proposals for a coherent Denmark in the past. We will, among other things. strong and independent communities where citizens receive support, codecision, for example with citizens' proposals and citizens' budgets. We must ensure coherence with flexible transport solutions, local remote jobs and homework allowances, so that the distance to and from a few days can be reduced by digital solutions. We also need to look at how to get more educational institutions outside the big cities, so that we booster the small communities around the smaller educational towns. In general, I hope that together we can find the solutions needed to achieve a coherent Denmark. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213112910	Thank you, sir. Sikandar Siddique. And I'd like to say to Mr. Sikandar Siddique, that I know very well about the pronunciation of one's name, because in my name there is an island, and there are so many foreigners who have difficulty in pronunciation. So I hope that this can be accepted. Now there is a question from Mr. Peter Juel-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213112932	Thank you. Thank you for a fine speech from the rapporteur. Remote jobs and the possibility of changing one's working life slightly so that one might be a little more at home in one's rural area where one lives, and then perhaps only occasionally, a few days a week, is at work to spar with one's colleagues or do what has to be done, then also requires one to move. Now I challenged the rapporteur of the Enhedslisten, and I would also like to ask the alternative rapporteur a question about it. Some flights are financially under pressure. Flights are the prerequisite for living in a rural area, perhaps reorganising one's working life and making some sense of it, and then being at one's place of work and being able to participate in what is now to be taken part in. Is the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party prepared to take initiatives to ensure that we use the EU system and then perhaps go in and give some residents some opportunities to lower air fares and perhaps extend commuter allowances in this way?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213113031	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213113035	Thank you for the question. There I can answer much more clearly than the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten did: No.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213113040	Sir. Peter Juel-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213113044	So all the fine words the rapporteur said about remote jobs apply only to those who live so close to them that they do not depend on moving over long distances. Is that how the rapporteur's speech should be understood? And how much more of the rapporteur's speech can we count on? In other words, how much of what came out of the rapporteur's mouth really has to do with it?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213113056	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213113100	I can assure the rapporteur on the Left that all I said in my rapporteur's speech is a wholehearted one. We are willing to look at flexible transport solutions, co-driving and cross-cars. We are willing to set up a national knowledge centre, which I also mentioned in a question to one of the rapporteurs in the past, where we have to address the challenges we are talking about here, so that we can come up with smart, capable, green, sustainable solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213113127	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213113139	The rapporteur now mentions the citizens' budgets. It is simply the greatest incitement of citizens. You force people to turn money into taxes, and then you give it back as pocket money. It's completely headless. Why will the alternative not just support by not taking the citizens' money? It's gonna cost somebody at both ends to manage these things. Can't you see a problem with citizens' budgets?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213113157	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213113200	For the alternative, it is super crucial that there is citizen involvement. We would rather that citizens in the municipalities too can help determine what money is spent on, and that is why we are interested in citizens' budgets. We believe that this is a good way of making citizen involvement so that citizens can help determine which initiatives are spent in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213113227	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213113232	But we do agree that the greatest possible involvement of citizens is to let the citizens keep their own money. Then they can spend it on what they want in the local area. That's all you can involve them.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213113237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213113241	We are a community, and in that community we must be together to find out what we want. We must be together to spend the money in the municipalities, and no one better than the local citizens knows what the money is for. That is why we believe that citizens' budgets are a good way of making local involvement and that it is a good way for citizens in each municipality to influence what the money is being spent on.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213113305	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more questions. The next one is sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213113318	Thank you for that, and thank you for saying the word Lars correctly, that was fantastic. The solution to this is simple: lower taxes, lower taxes, more decentralisation, and then we should stop punishing people who take a good initiative. Couldn't it be nice if it was the Danish Parliament's solution and the Danish Parliament's response to how we should strengthen Denmark and strengthen the local areas? That is certainly the answer of the new citizens. That's the way we're going. FLAK schemes and LAG schemes, and I don't know what more power to bureaucrats, more power to politicians. Why do people have to search here and there, let the citizens keep the money for themselves. The Danes are an enterprising people. If you give them freedom, they'll do the job. That is the way we think we should go in New Citizens to solve it for rural areas. Because when politicians remove the local school out there, it has an impact on the local area. And you can't do that. You remove the local seminary in a city, for example. in the area where I came from originally, where I grew up in the countryside around Ribe. The seminar was moved from Ribe to Esbjerg. It was very important for a city like Ribe. Young people don't put money in retail stores, cafes, bodegas, grocery stores, anywhere else. It's very important. And when you make it more difficult and make it difficult for people to borrow money to buy houses in rural areas, you also make it difficult for people to move out there. So there are a whole range of things that fall on our shoulders in here as politicians. There are a whole range of measures that we could take to make it better and easier to live in these rural areas. However, it should not be solutions that deal with subsidies where you are disadvantaged or disadvantaged. If the registration tax on cars were to be abolished, it would have a huge impact. And then I know that we always hear the slogan, also often from the Enhedslisten, that it benefits people up in North Zealand. Well, do you know who it actually benefits the second most? They're people over in Lemvig City. So if you remove the registration tax on cars, it is very important for the young people who get an apprenticeship over in West Jutland and who need a car to get back and forth to their carpenter companies. It is of great importance. So there are a large number of measures that we could take in here that would help rural areas. But more subsidy schemes, pre-allocations and the belief that we politicians are the right ones to run retail, how development should be in the countryside, we do not think it right. General housing is another area. Why do politicians, the state, continue to give money to support construction in the big cities? That's what you do. That is what everyone who votes for us to continue to spend money on general housing. There aren't many common homes built in Give. There is in Aarhus, there is in Copenhagen. So when we keep putting money in that system, we are directly working against the development that we now stand and say we want to have. It doesn't make sense. So we could start by stopping making decisions that are opposed to strengthening Udkantsdanmark, Produktionsdanmark, you can call it what you want. We can also call it the backbone of Denmark, which I like better. Those were the words from me.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213113723	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then there is a question from Mr. Peter Juel-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213113727	Thank you and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. The rapporteur deals with a great many elements. Yesterday, in the Committee on Rural Development and the Islands, we were invited to a technical review by the Committee on Taxation. It's because of that generational tax. There is my claim that it will bring rural money into the cities. When you go to meetings with the Minister for Industry and we talk about rural policy, we are all very concerned that we have the possibility of funding in rural areas. In other words, we will be sitting with a minister and looking at how to ensure better funding opportunities. But over with another minister, the tax minister, you will then take the money that we have ensured we can invest in our rural areas, because they will have to be paid into taxes. What is the rapporteur's view of the Government's idea of increased generational shift tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213113819	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213113825	It is deeply damaging, and it is the inheritance tax in general. Sometimes I find it difficult to blame socialists for pursuing socialist politics, but that is the way it is. And it will harm Denmark. There's no doubt about it. We will see that as well. I wonder why a bourgeois government, which has had a majority from 2015 to 2019, has not completely abolished the inheritance tax. Then we wouldn't have had that problem. Then the Social Democratic Party would have had to introduce a new tax. If it were up to us in New Citizens, we would completely abolish the generational tax and inheritance tax. I must therefore call for the bourgeois spectacles to be put on in the Left too and then support the complete abolition of the inheritance tax, because I do not believe that the Left does. But it would be the right way to go, that is to say completely to just delete this, and then we don't have that problem anymore.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213113902	Sir. Peter Juel-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213113906	We think it is a good idea that, if you withdraw the money from a company and then spend it on something other than the money that needs to be spent on to run the business, then you are taxed by them. We think that's a good idea. But perhaps I would also like to follow up on a question. Yesterday, during the technical review, I tried to ask the question about the consequences this will have for our rural areas. Where are the most family-owned companies affected by this increased generational shift tax? Is it in rural areas, or is it in cities? There I was told that it is not possible to provide that answer. Can we then say that this government basically legislates without knowing the consequences and scope of its own decisions, when you cannot even give that answer, that is, whether this is something that might hit very hard in rural areas and how to compensate rural areas for it?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213113957	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213114000	Well, I totally agree, and in New Citizens, we don't want it. That's where we'll go further. But I must also say to the Left that there was also a tax on the change of generation when the Left was in power. It was known to be harmful. Here we are not talking about someone pulling out the money, but even if you kept the money in the company, there was still a tax, a tax, when the Left was in power. I think it should have been removed. And if the Left puts on the bourgeois glasses and wants to support New Citizens in the forward-looking, well then it will just be positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213114027	Then it's Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213114028	Thank you. I understand that the rapporteur believes that the money is best in the pockets of the citizens and that we should not have too many taxes and taxes. At the same time, I also hear the rapporteur express a concern when a seminar is closed in that city or when a school is closed in that city. I therefore have to remind the rapporteur that rural areas are not operated under market conditions. Rural areas simply need us from the state to go in and help them. If we don't help them with all of our tax dollars, we can't keep the local primary school, then we can't keep the local seminary. We simply need to help them, so I hope that the rapporteur is also involved in paying enough tax so that we can get rural areas up and running.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213114119	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213114121	In New Citizens we have no problem spending money on basic core welfare, and the way we think is the right way to do it is by sending money to the basic core welfare bypassing the bureaucrats in the municipalities and sending it directly to the individual institutions. If we send the money out to the individual local primary school, then they get an amount per. student, then it is their responsibility to have a school, and then they have exactly the same money as others have elsewhere. Then there may be a few areas where we need to help, and we are perfectly willing to do so. But the problem is, of course, when the municipalities can sit and think about closing down the small local primary schools and seeing an economic advantage in it, and that is what we want to remove from the municipalities, because there they are not their job adult.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213114205	Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213114208	Okay, is the rapporteur talking here about earmarking money to run local public schools and seminars? I understand the rapporteur, because we who sit here for some time have also seen the experience of the money we send out to the municipalities to drive the Danish small islands, and they end up in all sorts of places other than the small islands. So is this an earmarking that the rapporteur is thinking of here?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213114234	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213114236	Absolutely, and we also have a policy that says that we must have road equality in Denmark. So it must not be more expensive to drive 1 km in the outskirtsdanmark than it is to drive 1 km inside the cities, and this also applies if you are going to the islands. So, yes, we would definitely like to spend money on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213114250	Then it's mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213114252	For the discussion about the municipalities: it could also be that it is because the municipalities have a very, very strained economy as a result of the policy pursued from in here. Let it go. I understand that in New Citizens people people are fiercely opposed to inclusion in all sorts of subsidy schemes, so I should just like to know whether this means that new citizens want to abolish LAG funds, subsidies for the road principle, i.e. reduced ferry tariffs, driving allowances. After all, these are all schemes which, after all, help to support in some way that it must be easier to settle in rural areas and islands. Is that what the rapporteur says that these arrangements should be abolished?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213114341	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213114343	Now I said precisely that New Citizens' policy was that it must not be more expensive to move from Samsø than it must be from Skanderborg, and that means precisely that ferry prices should not rise. They may need to be put down more closely so that it does not become more expensive to settle over there. So perhaps Enhedslisten will support it. But I would like to arrest the argument about the municipalities' economy, because the municipalities spend the money on a lot I could spend 4 hours telling about crazy projects that politicians spend the money on that have nothing to do with basic core welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213114417	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213114419	I'm a little interested in hearing about nuclear welfare, among other things. This means that subsidies are being granted so that ferry transport to our small islands can become cheaper, so it is at least a little more attractive to settle on an island. Is the driver's allowance even an increased driving allowance for the outermost municipalities, which supports settlement in the outermost municipalities, also core welfare, which must be supported or not supported? And the same with the LAG funds: is it nuclear welfare that must be abolished or not abolished?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213114453	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213114455	We can start by removing the registration fee and the tax on petrol, so people can afford to drive. In addition, I would just like to say that, under the latest government from 2015 to 2019, spending in the municipalities increased by EUR 2.3 billion. kr. Of these, 435 million were spent. kr. central administration and management; central administration and management: 435 million. kr.! This is what you choose to spend money on in the municipalities when we give more money in here from Christiansborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213114529	Then we thank the rapporteur and move on to the next one. It's sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213114544	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for calling an exciting debate and for all these exciting presentations we have heard. One of the candidates for the New Alliance, who is the forerunner of LA, proposed during the 2007 election campaign to turn Funen into an action zone. Lars Kolind believed that the tax could be reduced to 40%. On Funen. I see some glimpses of memory emerging from the rapporteurs. The proposal was received in the same way in the general public as in this Chamber. It drowned in laughter and cost Lars Kolind his political career. That's why we in my party are always a little scared when people start talking about action zones, differentiated taxes and the kind of burnt child shudders action zones. When I have to prepare for a debate like this today, I look up in one of the best books ever written about the so-called outskirts problem. It was written by our current Minister for Housing, sir. Kaare Dybvad, before joining the Danish Parliament in 2015. And if you haven't read it, you really should. And I mean this very seriously, because it is professionally strong and good to be wise about. One of the things the author says is that it is a combination of globalisation ideology and centralism that has created the edge myth and the concrete policy of the 00s. It is therefore not inevitable that the big cities should have all the development. It is this combination of concrete policy and more diffuse ideology that creates the picture we are seeing today. I simply believe that this is a correct analysis, not politically, but purely professionally. The arguments, as Mr. Kaare Dybvad lays forth in his book, holds. Another thing, like Mr. Kaare Dybvad notes in the book that life is actually good in the province. Several of the rapporteurs have mentioned this. The rate of availability is high because housing costs are low; employment is high because we are talking about production Denmark. The statistics are misleading because the profits of companies are credited by the municipality where the headquarters is located. This means that for the production facility that Novo Nordisk has in Kalundborg, earnings are credited by the head office in Bagsværd. It hides how well things are actually going in the province. So there is a great deal to be done, and what is then the discussion is, of course, how we organise the framework conditions. I must honestly say that we have a government which conducts a provincial anti-government policy. Efforts were made to kill the increased switching rate to the free schools. It was stopped, but it would have been very, very damaging to the outskirts in particular, where the free school replaces the municipal offer that has been closed down. Capital is sucked out of agriculture with a threefold increase in the tax on the turn of the generation. Symbolic environmental requirements are imposed. It becomes more difficult to get around when family cars become more expensive. You also have to pay attention to the deduction to rent summer houses, because it creates employment in the experience economy, which is incredibly important in many places. So what is important is that the framework conditions for rural areas are laid down politically in a sensible way, and it is important to remember that development is not a natural law. What we see today is man-made. Generally speaking, we are rather sceptical about state aid in the Liberal Alliance because it distorts the economy. So we would like to make some moves that do not have this distortion effect, but we would like to contribute to a policy that benefits the whole country. The last thing I want to use my speaking time for, and we can then have a question debate on another time, is the importance of provincial capitals. It is more clear to me than ever that these provincial capitals scattered across the country are really important for the regions to function. So some kind of care that we have some provincial capitals that work well and can carry out the task of provincial capital around the country is actually really important for the surrounding municipalities to function as well. I was given this matter quite late yesterday, so I do not know what the actual rapporteur has agreed with regard to the proposals for adoption. We shall find out before the vote. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213115039	There's a question. Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213115046	That was just sir. Henrik Dahl's final remark about provincial capitals. I listened to that with great attention. I thought that sounded pretty exciting. To understand this correctly, I would like to ask: Does it also include major cities outside the big provincial towns? I'd like to know, because I think that actually matters. One thing, for example, is the Region of Central Jutland, where you clearly have Århus, but there are also a number of other major cities in our own region. These are cities other than Odense and so on. etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213115117	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213115121	First of all, I should like to say to the Minister that although Mr. Kaare Dybvad is one of my personal, good friends, we're not going to vote with the government. I'm sorry. Regional capitals are really important. In South and South Jutland it is of course Esbjerg who plays an important role, in Central Jutland Herning plays an incredibly important role, and in North Jutland Aalborg plays an important role. One of the problems of West Zealand is that there is not really a clear regional capital. It could be Næstved. This makes life difficult in these cities, and that's why you obviously have to pay a lot of attention to it. After all, the University of Southern Denmark takes on its role as a regional university, understands itself as a regional university and does it very well. In the rest of the country, the understanding of being a regional university is • what should we say is not developed as well. So there's a lot of things to do there. A collective awareness by the Danish Parliament of the fact that the regional capitals are functioning, I think is just quite important.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213115220	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213115229	Thank you. One of the things that is helping to distort Denmark is these massive state subsidies that are being given to general housing. The Liberal Alliance has in the past been very fiercely opposed to general housing, but then there came a period when one was in government, and there it became a little more diffuse what the Liberal Alliance's position was on it. So I would like to ask what the Liberal Alliance's position is on the general housing sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213115247	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213115251	We have the general view that there are large parts of housing regulation in this country that are misguided and lead to a wrong housing policy. It is clear that when you sit in a coalition government, you do not get your party programme implemented, and of course New Citizens will also discover that as you gain more experience in the Folketing. The rest of us have not been elected to implement the New Citizens' Party programme, and the New Citizens' Party must live with it. After all, we have learned to live with the fact that the other parties will not realise our party programme.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213115321	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213115323	I think I'm aware of that. We have a certain history in the same party. We are not really responding to what the attitude now is to general housing. Should the state aid funds for general housing be stopped?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213115333	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213115336	We are very critical of the way the system works. It is also clear that we cannot just say that now we are shutting everything down, because then there will be a whole lot of problems. But we are very critical of the present system.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213115349	Then we say thank you to the rapporteur and then we go to the Minister for Industry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213115359	Thank you. I just saw a chance for very broad political cooperation here with the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, but fair enough. I would like to start by thanking you very much for a very good and exciting debate and perhaps following on from what the Enhedslisten rapporteur also said, namely that it is good to have this broad debate. At any rate, I dare to take the college here as an income to agree with the government on one thing in my speech, namely that there is no one size fits all-solution in rural areas. This reveals the debate so clearly to all of us. I also think that it suits all of us very well to remember that and it was Mette Hjermind Dencker who drew attention to it as the first happiness and joy and the positive aspects associated with our rural areas. Because they are big and they are many, but it is often in the shadow of some of the debates, because we must quickly and we must also throw ourselves at the challenges and problems and try to solve them along the way. But thank you for also remembering all of us on that element. I think I will confine myself to commenting on some of the points that have been raised in today's debate, and one subject on which many of us are very much concerned is the whole question of education. At any rate, this was also confirmed the night we had in the rural circle, together with representatives from the financial sector, who said that education is a core element in the issue of future lending opportunities and loan facilities in our outermost regions and our rural areas. That is why I would just like to sign for it and say that it is certainly something that I am going to take down as a subject we need to look at widely and something that needs to be worked on. The Enhedslisten mentions this with the rural statement and regrets that we did not have the big, wide debate. We now have it, and I hope we can have it under many other regimes. We have also had a good consultation in committee, where we really got very far. I think it was the case that the rural statement was actually published, but the elections were held 30 minutes before the debate was due to start in the Parliamentary Chamber. So we must have the benefit of that debate, and we will, of course, have it as we go further. As I said in my speech, I am coming to the debate, and we in the government as a whole are doing We want to create a Denmark in balance. We'd like to bring the neighborhood back again. We want to strengthen rural areas and areas outside the big cities. And some preparations will be set in motion here in the near future. There was one of the colleagues who did not at some point in today's debate, but at another time said that we are, of course, I just think that today's debate confirms that. After all, I do not hear anyone contesting the need to do something for rural areas. You can also take the view that you say that it must drive itself, that the market must move as it does, and then rural areas must shut down if they cannot drive. I have not heard that position anywhere, which is why I am just thinking that in the work that I will certainly take over, I will, of course, try to include some of the good experiences I have gained from the visits I am making in the country and the visits that colleagues make in the country, but also from the experience of the members of the committee. Because I hear that we all want to go in the same direction, and that is a very good starting point. I can just say that if someone has to have the sweet Christmas days with a glass of red wine or something else to go with something sensible, you are very welcome to think about rural policy too and then send them so that you don't just think about it. You can send them, too. When I say that, it is because I have also been on the Rural Committee. I was elected for the first time in 2011, and since then I have been sitting with some of my colleagues in the committee. If I am going to be a little bit self-critical about this whole debate committee, I would say that I am certainly impatient. I would like to see some action, I would like to see results, which is why I am very, very interested in the things that have emerged in today's debate. I've taken good notes myself, the good people sitting over in the public gallery have taken good notes. For that is valuable knowledge and one can be inspired by the debate we have today and by the parties that are participating. It is important that we look at challenges and potentials and that we take the time to find the best solutions for a coherent Denmark, and that what I say is done in good dialogue with each other and with the relevant stakeholders. Avoiding a Denmark that breaks over must be one of our main priorities. It is for me as a minister, and I think it is for all of us. That is why I would just like to say that I look forward to carrying out that task with my colleagues in the government and with as many of the parties of the Folketing as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213115934	There are some questions, and the first questioner is Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213115941	Thank you, Minister. Like the Minister, I am very fond of a good, sober and objective debate. This is the second time in this area I've been filling in for Uffe Elbæk. Last time was when we closed the deal on Nets and had a doorstepinterview. It's always a pleasure to fill in for Uffe on this committee. I would just like to ask, because I am this very, very curious type, whether the Minister can draw a picture of or give us an impression of how much of his ministerial time the Minister spends in the rural area? So, can the Minister draw a picture of how this is connected, since you are Minister of Business and are dealing with so many things? How much does the rural area occupy in the Minister's work?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213120035	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213120038	I do not think I can give a full answer. In this sense, we do not record time when I am Minister for Rural Development and when I am Minister for Business. But there are many of us who come from rural areas.I come from Thy and I feel that I have it in me and with me in the way I think, so I feel really much like rural minister, and I feel really good in the role. It is clear that sometimes there are also agreements on payment services that fill, or quick loans and other things that are currently a little bit cumbersome. However, this is a great deal, and when I refer earlier to my own impatience as a member of parliament and Vice-President of the Rural Committee, it is because I see a debate which is important and which I, like all my colleagues, bear very deeply within me. We've just been talking about a lot of things, and so many of the debates we've had for many years, so shouldn't it be now that we got together in the thing here and put some action behind it? At least that's my ambition.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213120143	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213120146	I didn't quite get an idea of how much time was spent. But the reason I ask is that the alternative would like to create an independent Ministry of Rural Affairs. We would like a ministry located outside Copenhagen, working on the opportunities and challenges facing rural areas. We simply believe that this is an area that needs to be given much more priority than it is today. Does the Minister see the same need as the alternative for an independent Ministry of Rural Affairs?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213120220	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213120222	No, I don't. In the end, it is of course also the Prime Minister who decides how the government is organised. However, I believe that we must pursue the results and I believe that there is a good chance that we can achieve good results together. That is the way I am taking the debate today, and I can assure you that I am spending a great deal of time on it. I would also just like to say that much of it is overlapped. In other words, when you are on a company visit to West Jutland or to Zealand somewhere, or where it is, there is always an element of rural reflection on how such a company is run and has the opportunity to borrow money for further investments etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213120301	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213120302	Thank you. There are a lot of things that make it possible to take steps to strengthen the rural area. I hope that we can get the debate very, very narrow now here. Will the Minister recognise that removing registration taxes on cars would help people living in rural areas? Let us focus on this, if we then recognise that it would help people who lived in those areas if that registration fee were now removed. It is then said that there is no afford, because it costs a lot of billions to remove it, and it costs a few billions, but if you just lowered it to 85%, it would actually be of great importance. It's $100 million. kr. To say you can't find 100 million. kr. in a national budget with more than 1,150 billion. kr., then becomes a bit irresponsible. And then it is political will that is not there for it. That is why I am surprised, and I would like to ask about it. Do you not have the political will to look at lowering the registration fee, which will benefit people who live in Thy and people who live in Lemvig? Because the study says that it will benefit the people who live in those areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213120403	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213120405	Then you can drive it further, as I also think there was one of the colleagues from the other side of the House who did, and ask whether it should be an element in the action zones here that there should be differentiated taxes and so on. I feel a bit that I do not believe that it is tax relief that has to lift rural areas. I believe that we have a very great need to make some real and important investments in education, in welfare, in infrastructure and in some of the things that are the framework for our rural areas. And it is not as simple as the rapporteur makes it, because when you spend money, they always leave something else. And today we have also talked about how difficult it is to run welfare institutions, run educational institutions and run other things in our rural areas. And if the money for running a well-functioning, strong Denmark gets less, I know where you feel it first, and it's in the outermost regions. That is why I am just sceptical about the proposal put forward by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213120511	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213120512	[Sound emission]... I have never talked about differentiation - I have said that if you lower the registration fee generally to 85%, it costs 100 million. kr., and of course you can find 100 million. kr. The government itself has said that 3 billion can be found. kr. in external consultants, but in its draft budget it has only been financed by 800 million. kr. I.e. That there are 2.2 billion. kr. to overpay external consultants. So it has to be because we would rather spend money on outside consultants out in the municipalities, regions or the state than lower registration fees on cars. If it is the argument that you simply cannot find 100 million. kr., then I should like to be a little helpful with many It could be on external consultants; it could be on development assistance; it could be in a large number of areas that you spend money on. But we could just start with external consultants, which you spend over 11 billion. kr. A year on. There is plenty to be found, but if you would rather spend the money on external consultants and strengthen them than lower registration fees, which will greatly benefit people living in the outermost regions, then that must be social democratic policy. It's never gonna be New Citizen's.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213120606	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213120608	After all, our aim of reducing the number of funds spent on external consultants remains unchanged. I just think that we have different perceptions of what that means. We have made a Finance Act now that we are strengthening the welfare of Denmark again. After many years of wearing down our welfare society, we can again afford to hire 1,000 extra nurses, to strengthen our welfare society and to increase the awareness of our children in the institutions and to increase adult relationships. That is what is needed, even when you enter our rural areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213120649	Then it's mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213120652	Yes, we are getting far, and this illustrates my point, moreover, that rural areas and peripheral areas are not isolated islands in our society, but are part of Denmark and are therefore, of course, influenced by the general policy that is being pursued. It is clear that this debate is of course also marked by: what can we do, for example, to support rural development that makes it attractive to settle there? Sometimes you may need to think a little out of the box. In the Rural Committee we are currently discussing the question of, for example, the old Rural Committee, we did so; we have started it again. Free villages, as has been suggested. It is not yet very concrete, but it is such an attempt to discuss such a little more broadly how we strengthen communities and fire souls around, how we break down barriers, bureaucracy, and what might be, in order to set some development in motion. I would like to hear the Minister's opinion on this, knowing that this is not very concrete, but it is about the idea of thinking out of the box, for example. open-air villages.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213120800	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213120802	After all, I have the basic view that my political objective as a Social Democrat is to try to create equal opportunities in our society, and this also applies across the postal numbers we have • whether it is a high or low postal code that you have and that you have equal opportunities to realise a good life, whether you live in a village or you live in a city. That is why I am not afraid that people sometimes have to be treated differently in order to give them equal opportunities. It shows everything we do with LAG funds, training measures, demolition pools, etc., yes too. So, on a fundamental level, I think it is exciting to consider what the possibilities are and what the limitations are, because there are probably some of them too. I would just like to return to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion today and say that, in the light of the debate we have had on the proposal, I also think it has become more nuanced and that perhaps it is more the thinking we are talking about here: that more differentiated action is being taken and that which principle does not deter me. But whether open villages are the right model for that, I am not in a position to say yes or no to today.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213120910	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213120911	No, of course not. We cannot say 'yes' or 'no' to this when it is not more specific. The idea has emerged from the fact that it is believed that it has been possible to identify that many of the local communities, village lows and what it is called around, and fire souls, which are very much driving the development of many outlying areas, in many villages, often experience that they run into some barriers in the form of bureaucracy or very complicated rules or very restrictive rules on some points. So it goes a little further than the whole question of free municipalities and things like that. You can just think a little bit wider, for example. at village level as such. That is what it seems to have sprung from, and I think that idea sounds appealing to me immediately. I also clearly have some reservations about it, and of course we need to see it in concrete terms, but I think the idea can be exciting.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213121012	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213121012-2	The parallel is, of course, direct to our business policy in the government, where we say that what is of trouble and bureaucracy that stands in the way of those who run a completely healthy, proper business in our society, we must of course be able to remove it from them if that does not make sense. That is why I have also helped to strengthen our entire EU and Rule Forum, which has just to look at trouble and bureaucracy. So I would just like to repeat myself: the principle of looking at the fact that something like this should not stand in my way is certainly not far off.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213121045	Then it's Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213121046	Thank you to the Minister and also to the other rapporteurs for a really sober debate. One of the pleasures of sitting on the Rural Committee is that, unlike the other committees of the Danish Parliament, we all agree on the substance here. Our differences don't come until we're further down in detail, and I think that's actually really nice. So thank you for that. And then I'm just so happy when the minister says he's really impatient about something happening now, that something has to be done now. So I would like to hear from the Minister what action we can see over the coming weeks, months, because the Minister is so impatient.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213121123	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213121124	In the first place, it's like we gotta get this thing going. We've already done some things. LAG funds are an expression of impatience that is being redeemed. Now the broadband pool also came into place here in the Finance Act; that is also very good. Training is being established outside the major cities. Fortunately, impatience shows a positive face for the government as a whole. Then we will have to make a concerted effort for the rural area. I just think that we should consider getting started in the near future, and I just invite the parties to take part in the preparatory work there. In connection with that, of course, there are ongoing discussions: then there are compensatory discussions. Then there are police reforms and other things that need to be taken into account, but impatience has already resulted in some concrete results that I am delighted and proud of. Now we must move forward with a slightly larger and coherent look at our rural areas. I'm just inviting my colleagues to join us there.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213121229	Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213121230	That sounds great. When there is to be a single rural initiative, will the Minister invite the committee here, because it consists of a lot of really good people who know a lot about rural areas? Will the Minister invite the committee here to come up with their good ideas for a concerted action, so that is something we can do in a group?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213121252	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213121253	I can promise you that I will both invite, but also give a standing invitation. Like I said, it's gonna be Christmas soon, and we're all gonna be able to calm down a little bit. Well, maybe there's some good ideas coming up. We should not, of course, restrict ourselves to whether a meeting is being held or not being held, but I would also like to hold a meeting.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213121312	Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213121315	Thank you for some good concluding remarks. It is not to destroy the good atmosphere that I would point out that it has an element of toasting in it when the Minister of Industry declares himself a member of a very provincial-friendly government. So I cannot see the provincial-friendly way of sucking capital out of agriculture, and that is what is being done by tripled the tax on generational change. What is the provincial-friendly way of sucking capital out of agriculture? Try explaining it to me.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213121350	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213121351	Maybe I think that Mr. Knox... Henrik Dahl, a little like the colleague who is on the left, becomes very narrow in his criticism, because if we are now in the process of creating a system where Danish agriculture is future-proofing, becomes greener, more climate-friendly and gets new market shares, because we actually have an agriculture that is efficient and attractive and something you want to look at and buy products from in other countries, then perhaps it is in fact the opposite story of agriculture. What is the whole ambition of making a green transition as ambitious as we do is that we are able to create growth and create business adventures out of it. You can of course look very closely at individual elements, but I look at it in a slightly larger context, and at the risk that it will have the character of a toast speech, and that is not the way it is meant, I would say that I think there are great potentials in it also for Danish agriculture and for Danish industry in general. Now I used the term Production Denmark, but many of our manufacturing companies around Denmark will have a great future ahead of them with the green transition that we are in the process of.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213121459	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213121500	I have never seen an economic textbook showing that it was beneficial to suck capital out of companies. That doesn't make any sense. Another thing which is not particularly provincial in the policy of the Social Democratic Party is the attack on the free schools. If the Social Democratic Party had had power, as it has observed, the coupling rate would have been much reduced, and this has been a very, very great disadvantage for a large number of free schools created because the municipalities have closed schools. I do not see the provincial friendliness there at all, and I would like to hear a comment on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213121537	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213121538	My comment on the first is that it is possible that we should have looked at the economic textbooks. I believe that there are textbooks which indicate that the green transition is not for the benefit of Danish industry. I think it is. And I would just like to refer to the recommendations of the OECD in the case of the housing and gift tax. However, it is also with a certain amount of economic gravity that they have written a recommendation to put exactly the tax at that level. In relation to the issue of schools, the entire investment in our school system with the financial law that has been made now is noticeable and significant, and, I must add, much needed on top of many years of civil rule by this country. So there will be a strengthening of our school system in Denmark, and yes, the free school area is completely unchanged.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213121629	Then we'll thank the Minister for Business. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposed amendments will take place only on Tuesday 17 December 2019. Before we move on to the last item on the agenda, we need to put the new rapporteurs and the minister in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213121714	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 17 December 2019. However, as I have said, there will be just a few minutes in which to put the rapporteurs in place in the front rows. Looks like everyone's in place now. The first to speak is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. And that is to justify the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213121945	Thank you, President. In the Danish People's Party we have chosen to call the Minister for this inquiry debate with the wording: What steps will the government take before the turn of the year to ensure that the Danes can safely meet their old age? In the Danish People's Party we find it important to ensure that the Danes can safely meet their old age, and therefore it was also worrying to read the government and the support parties' understanding paper. For there was little about it, except that work was to be started to reduce unnecessary documentation requirements and control and minute tyranny in the care of the elderly, thus freeing up time for work with the individual elderly. It was a work which, moreover, was initiated by the previous government and completed with a report in 2018. With the government's financial law initiative, it was also extremely disappointing that the draft budget did not contain concrete initiatives to deliver a boost in the care of the elderly, and, unfortunately, when the financial law agreement was concluded, there was nothing for the elderly besides a small pool. I read a quote from the Elders Case: It is appalling that there are so few concrete initiatives for the most weakened elderly when 73 000 elderly people sit in their own homes without the help they need. There is a shortage of 25,000 foster homes, and social care is shrinking. That is why I think it is very important to hear what the government is going to do. I look forward to today's debate. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213122126	Thank you to the rapporteur for the questions, and then it is the Minister for Health and the elderly for answering the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213122140	Thank you for that, thank you for the floor, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for calling this question debate. I must apologize for my vote. I simply have some virus on my voice, and I deeply regret that. I'm gonna get some water, and then it's gonna be okay. This is an important question debate, because it is important that we constantly discuss how to ensure a safe and dignified old age for all. That is why I have been very much looking forward to today's debate. I believe that all parties see this as something very important, and I can say that the government puts welfare first. This is, of course, particularly true in the area of the elderly, because the elderly are one of the pillars of our welfare society. Therefore, it is absolutely crucial that we can all count on there being proper and dignified help and care when we need it that in other words we can meet our old age safely. This also applies when we grow older in the years to come. Demographic development is one of the reasons for this. requirements for there to be the resources necessary to carry out tasks with more elderly people in need of care and care. Of course, this presupposes that the framework is in order, and that is, of course, the central focus here: is the framework now in order? There is no doubt about this, and I think it was also what the Elders Case raised in the quotation used in the explanatory statement of the question debate that the municipalities have been pressured financially in recent years. It's been cut down, cut hard, cut to the leg in many places. The employees are running really fast out there, really strong. At the same time, we have heard stories from relatives about neglecting the care of their weakened elderly family members. It is not only quite terrible for the individual elderly and the relatives when this kind of concrete failure occurs; it is also a breach of the fundamental trust we all expect to have in our welfare society and care for the elderly. And then we also run the risk of an insidious insecurity in the population in relation to the whole social contract, which must, of course, ensure that we can all have confidence that there is proper help and care when we ourselves need help. That is why it is also at the heart of the government's policy on the elderly that we need to rebuild welfare. We must ensure that the framework is in order so that the municipalities can keep up when more elderly people arrive. There must be security of welfare in the municipalities, both now and in the years to come. Right after we took over government responsibility, we took the first important step in restoring welfare when we concluded the agreement on the local economy, where we raised the economy of the municipalities by 1.7 billion. kr. compared to the previous year. That boost of 1.7 billion. kr. is more than the amount in the last four years' municipal agreements combined. At the same time, with the economic agreement with the regions of health, we lifted by just about 1.5 billion. kr. In this way, we will cover the demographic trait, while ensuring that a bottom is placed under welfare. This means that the municipalities have more money for e.g.: our older than at any other time in the last four years. The second important step in ensuring welfare and security in the care of the elderly has been taken with the financial agreement for 2020, which has just been concluded. Here, together with the agreement parties from 2020, we have set aside EUR 125 million. kr. every year to develop and test new ways in which we can regain our presence and care in the care of the elderly. It seems to me that it is an important part of a safe and dignified care for the elderly that there is time to be there for the weakened elderly. It's not just about our elderly getting cleaned up or getting help showering. It is also very much about the fact that, for example, there is an increase in the number of young people in the Community. must be time to talk over a cup of coffee and hear about the grandchildren without the social and health workers having to sit and count minutes. It is about the need for time and space for residents to experience more of life and everyday life there. As part of the financial agreement, we have also reached an agreement on the social and health reserve, with more than 244 million being allocated. kr. For a total of over four years to follow up the National Dementia Action Plan, and I would like here from the platform to sign for this to the parties behind the agreement. Dementia is a terrible disease which has great consequences both for the individual and, of course, for the next of kin. That is why it is important that we continue to follow up on the key parts of the dementia action plan's initiatives so that we achieve objectives properly. In addition, the agreement on the social, health and labour market reserve also contains 20 million. kr. to follow up on permanently affiliated doctors at the care centres, a scheme that we know works very well in most places. So the financial agreement and this agreement on the social, health and labour market reserve are based on the bottom line that we have placed in the economy of the municipalities and regions with the economic agreements for 2020. The overall package of agreements in the area of the elderly means that we are both making sure that the money comes along so that we keep our hands on the core welfare, while at the same time strengthening our efforts towards the weakest elderly. In this context, I would also like to add that, of course, we in the government recognise that the previous government secured better conditions for the people's pensionists' economy by dropping the regulation of the retirement pension. We are pleased about this, and we have carried on with the new regulatory model to the letter. But that part of it, of course, does not give more home help hours to the elderly, just to take one example, and that is why, with the overall package of agreements in the area of the elderly, we have given priority to putting a bottom under welfare, while strengthening our efforts towards the weakest elderly. That is absolutely crucial. Then we in the government have also announced that the money will have to follow when there are more older and more children, because that development will continue, and that is a good development, and it costs money, and we deliver that money. We put welfare first and, as I said, we have taken the first steps with the economic and financial agreements. The agreed framework boosts to municipalities and regions and the other welfare priorities of the Finance Act are higher than the growth of the demographic move. The government wants more clear commitments, and that is why we want to make a welfare law. The government will therefore make a proposal for a welfare law later in this parliamentary year. So we are not only setting a new direction by securing an economy and a financial base under welfare in the future; we are holding hands under welfare; we will also set a new direction in terms of restoring confidence in the many skilled employees who daily care and care for our elderly. Many employees experience that too many demands are being placed on them in relation to how to do their work every day, and they experience that documentation requirements take time away from the core of their work, namely to provide good and proper and present care and care, and this naturally affects the workers' work satisfaction and their motivation to use their professional skills and common sense, and ultimately it may also affect the desire to apply to the sosu training or to seek the job as an employee in the care of the elderly. It's no good, and we're gonna have to reverse that trend. We must have confidence that employees with their professional skills and knowledge of the citizens know much better than we here at Christiansborg, both how life is lived in the individual nursing home and how home help is best organised locally. So in other words, we have to dare to get a little more control from in here. For example: If there has been one unfortunate single matter, we must hold back from legislation on more control immediately. But that also makes demands on the municipalities. There must be room for the managers and employees to be accountable locally and together to correct any errors, and that is not an easy task; we know that. I also know that a lot of people have tried it before us without really succeeding. But shouldn't we be together to make another attempt? At least that's what the government has planned, and that's why we agreed in the economic agreement with the municipalities to initiate this work to investigate why some documentation requirements are felt unnecessary. This applies both to the centrally established requirements and to the requirements that come from local and local authorities, with the aim of clearly reducing the burden of documentation and thus finding new ways of freeing up employees' time so that it is spent on the individual elderly. At the same time, we will address a future proximity reform which, together with a proper financial framework for the municipalities, which is of course central, should allow municipalities and employees to concentrate on the core task of providing the very best treatment and care for some of our most weakened citizens. So these were some of the elements, but money and trust cannot stand alone either. Because we are also faced with a huge challenge, that is to say, in many places it is difficult to provide employees for the care of the elderly. That is why it is a common ambition in the agreements on the economy of municipalities and regions that we together address the challenges of getting enough staff. It acts among other things. about training more social and health workers, but it is also about more employees being given the opportunity to take up time, that we have to reduce the absence of sick people and that the focus is on using the skills of the employees in the best way possible. For this work, we have set up a task force to identify concrete measures to support the ambition of training and recruitment of more social and health workers and the maintenance of existing employees. So, in addition to all the concrete initiatives in the area of the elderly, the government's ongoing work on health policy priorities, together with a sustained focus on reducing inequality, will also benefit the elderly. Because it is really positive that many live longer and that many have a good life, even when you are older. This is fantasticly positive, but many of our older fellow citizens are also some of the most in need, for example. The transitions between hospital, home care and general practitioners work well. It also places great demands on how, for example, we can do this. designing our health care system. In addition, inequality among older people still locks too many people into a life of disease, with fewer years of life and with less opportunity for a good life compared to others. Those opportunities are still unevenly distributed, and if you do not have resources or have strong relatives, you do not stand well. It is important that we change that. We must bring everyone with us, all elderly people who need help must feel sure that help is always there. We will do everything we can to ensure this, both in health policy priorities and in our constant focus on combating inequality, so that we set a new direction for the elderly area, where an economic bottom is placed under welfare, where it will be possible to prioritise more time for care, care and presence and where inequality is reduced. The development of welfare in the area of the elderly is going to take time. It cannot be solved at once. But we have taken the first important step, and this is needed if we are all to be able to face our old age safely. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213123405	There are a few questions which I hope the Minister's voice can still stand. The first question is Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213123412	Thank you for that and thank you for the Minister's speech. It sounds like the minister could use a Old Danish to lubricate his neck. We all could. I would like to ask the Minister how much money has been allocated specifically to the area of the elderly, i.e. earmarked for the area of the elderly, so that we know precisely that they are going to and the area of the elderly. Because we have seen in the past that we have set aside funds and earmarked them for the older area... but as soon as the funds are not earmarked anymore, we also see that savings are being made. Will the Minister explain this? Then I have another question for the Minister, and that is in relation to the rock card scheme. We know that several municipalities have begun to save away the rock map scheme, and when the Danish People's Party went to negotiations about the reserve, as the Minister mentioned, we really fought for the elderly and to get more money off in the area of the elderly, because the government has also downgraded the funds in this area. Will the Minister explain whether the Minister will also include the rock card scheme in the Service Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213123522	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213123523	Thank you for those questions. I believe that it must be seen as a whole, i.e. the economic agreements, the financial law and the reserve negotiations, because they are, after all, the overall consequence of the entire government's policy. The economic agreements deliver 1.7 billion. kr. more to the municipalities than the previous year to keep up with the major demographic changes, i.e. 1.7 billion. kr. More. After all, there are two demographic changes that are taking place. One is that we are getting older and we live longer. The second is that more children are also born. Both are very, very positive elements. So there are 1.7 billion. kr. to pay for it and, in addition, the Finance Act provides for 125 million. kr. Every year from the financial law agreed upon, which will work from the turn of the year.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213123622	Then it's Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213123625	Thank you, Minister. I am very sorry to ask questions about that voice there. I would like to ask a question about the documentation requirements, because it is clear that the more time you spend documenting, the less time you can spend on the citizen. It will often also be the case that with documentation there are some guidelines on how to solve the tasks. This means taking the freedom of the employee to do what may be most needed and which might help the citizen. And then I think that it would make it much more attractive to enter as SOSU assistant, that is to say to apply for training, as the Minister has also mentioned. So my question, to which I am actually aware that the Minister cannot answer directly, is this: does the Minister think that we are talking about a reduction in the documentation requirement of 5, 10, 20 or 40 per cent?? Where are we?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213123715	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213123716	Thank you for that question. We have very great ambitions. This requires the Danish Parliament to be involved in this, but we also want to be involved in the fact that what is happening, and which is a little like the litmus test on it, is to have confidence in the fact that people in the individual elderly centre, out in the individual care centres, out in the nursing homes and out in the municipalities, organise and organise themselves in a way that requires less documentation and which is based more on trust between the individual elderly and the employees. So I cannot make such a concrete figure for it, but I am very, very happy with the approach to it, because it sounds so easy to say: we need less documentation, but can we not get a little more earmarked funds, pools and things? Every time you make earmarked funds, pools and things, you have to prove it, and then you have to apply for it, and then there will be piles of paper. That's what we need to get away from.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213123823	Then it's Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213123824	Thank you for the floor. I also feel very sorry for the Minister, and for the fact that the Minister is here today to run for office. The minister mentions again and again the municipal agreement of the 1.7 billion. kr., and I think it should be welcomed that the government came in line with a municipal agreement. My question is about ensuring that the municipalities remain well-being. Considering that there will be more and more elderly people, more and more children, more disabled people, who fortunately also live longer, that is to say all those who will be more in the municipalities, but at the same time have to ensure the same welfare in the Danish municipalities, so that you can get the same level of service next year as you have this year, what would you have promised in the municipality agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213123930	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213123930-2	I helped negotiate with KL myself and make an agreement, so thank you for the receipt that we succeeded with an agreement. In fact, an agreement is always possible, but it is the content that is crucial, and I think the content is quite clearly distinctly different, because we are just delivering on what Mrs Jane Heitmann is asking, namely the demographic trait. It is, after all, a figure that can be looked up and found in the Ministry of Finance, i.e. what the demographic trait is, so there is no political disagreement. One may disagree on whether one wants to deliver on it and set aside money for it, and the funds that 1.7 billion. kr., which we have provided here, covers exactly the demographic trait, plus that you can raise welfare if you see it in the context of the Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213124024	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213124026	Thank you. I very much agree with the Minister that the money often disappears the longer you get into the system. In New Citizens we have an approach in which we would like the funds to be given directly to the individual institutions, that is to say also in the area of the elderly, so that the municipalities are not able to get them, but so that the money is given directly to the individual manager, to the individual board, so that they can spend the money best there. Is that something Social Democracy could see itself in?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213124053	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213124055	I have a great, great love for our Danish local democracy in which I grew up, and confidence in our democracy and closeness to the citizens is worth gold, and municipalities have great freedom in relation to many, many other countries. When you ask the Danes who they trust most, their members of parliament or their councillors and mayors, you just have to say that they have more confidence in those who are close to them than they trust in us who are members here. We must be honest and say so. So I agree with the point of saying that the municipalities must also have an approach to what reduces their requirement for documentation and other things, but that must be something we must do together with the municipalities and not just pull it down over their heads.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213124201	Then we thank the Minister. There are no more questions in this round. We shall now proceed to the debate, and there are, of course, the general rules on matters that apply, i.e. two brief remarks. The first to speak is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213124228	Thank you. And also thanks to the Minister for coming forward today despite a virus. This may also indicate that the area of elderly people is extremely important to the Minister. And if that is the signal the Minister is sending in today, we in the Danish People's Party are of course happy about it. The elderly are extremely important for the Danish People's Party, and we have given priority to the elderly in all the negotiations we have been involved in. Some of the results in the area of older people from 2015 to 2019 include: Dignity billion, 0.5 billion. kr. a year to the warm hands, 1,000 more employees in the care of the elderly, the abolition of the rate pool, so that in the future the public pension follows the general wage development, kitchens back in several of the nursing homes, less set-off for pensioners with pension savings, increased income for pensioners, tax-free senior premiums, an effort to recruit qualified social and health workers, funds to combat loneliness, a pool to make nursing homes more enjoyable, yes, we had to fight for once again in the debate on the rate-pool reserve, and we also had to fight for the dementia action plan: half an hour of self-chosen help for nursing homes, more focus on quality in care for the elderly, better supervision in the elderly area, more self-determination in relation to the choice of nursing homes, an effort towards bankruptcy in the care of the elderly, a knowledge centre for dignified elderly care, an action plan for the good elderly, which the government has unfortunately also amputated alittle , a national care centre for complicatedcare , group therapy for older people with a complex careroom , a mapping of knowledge on the national action plan for theelderly. And then I also got a pool set aside for an accompanying scheme, which was supposed to be nationwide, of 80 million. kr., so that blind and partially sighted over 67 years could have a companion. Unfortunately, I have to say that the 80 million. kr. Not yet implemented. And we also helped to adopt permanent exemption from digital mail. One of our fundamental values in the Danish People's Party is that the elderly who have built up our society, and who have even paid a very high tax through their lives, must of course also have a safe and dignified old age. Professional Seniors fear a dyke break in the care of the elderly. They say that with the government's draft Finance Act, earmarked subsidies for the municipalities' efforts for the elderly are over, and the money then goes instead to block grants. In the future, there will be no guarantee that the funds allocated will also benefit the elderly. And the government cannot live high on an economic agreement. Those are my words, but what Professional Seniors say is that there is no guarantee that the money will go to the elderly. They think there's good reason to be worried. You say, and I quote: 'The care of the elderly really is facing an uncertain future, as the situation now stands. We must therefore, at least, demand that a guarantee be provided by the State that funds in block grants for the elderly are actually spent in the area of the elderly. This also applies to the extra money allocated to the municipalities as part of the municipal agreement, because they get more elderly people. We need to have some guarantees that the money ends where it is intended and not for cultural houses and holes in the roads," says Palle Smed. In fact, I agree with you, because can the government ensure that the funds provided for in the economic agreement go to the elderly? No, the government probably can't. The government has not earmarked any of the funds, the clip card is being saved away, even in spite of the economic agreement, of which the government is very proud. But here too the Minister has to give an answer as to how many municipalities have saved away the rock card scheme. It also touches me deeply, just as I think it touches most of the others here, when we see these sad examples, such as: The example of Einar, who, despite his old age, his impaired vision, his chronic illness, and his own statements about not being comfortable at home, could not get a place in a nursing home. That is why we must also ensure that a nursing home can be provided as an elderly citizen. We must be sure that there are enough staff to care for loving care and care. As a society, we owe it to our elderly to provide proper care and care. The elderly are core welfare and must be given priority as such. And when there is a wrong priority in the municipalities, we in the Danish People's Party believe that we must help to get the priorities right. And we are fully committed to earmarking more funds for the elderly, so that we are also sure that they will be used for the elderly. Unfortunately, we have seen that when you do not, they go to everything else. On behalf of the Danish People's Party, the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives, I would like to read out the following proposals for adoption: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the elderly area and dignity of care for the elderly are not a priority of government finance law. The only initiative is an application pool of 125 million. kr., which the municipalities can apply for. The Folketing considers it crucial that the Danes can safely meet their old age. A dignified care for the elderly is a matter of course. Just like you have to be able to go to a nursing home when the need arises. The Danish Parliament notes that several municipalities have saved away the cutting-card scheme for which the former government and the Danish People's Party allocated funds. It weakens the free choice of the elderly, which worries the Folketing. Parliament notes that it was a struggle during the negotiations on the reserve to have more funds spent on the dementia action plan, but the government gave in. The Danish Parliament instructs the government to give priority to the area of the elderly and among other things: focus on loneliness, distrust and senior communities. The Folketing wishes to strengthen the professional quality of care for the elderly and to propose solutions to recruitment challenges in the area of the elderly. A challenge that the Danish Parliament will follow up on. V 36). Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213124906	Thank you. Proposals have now been put forward for adoption, which will be included in the next reading. I would just like to inform the rapporteur that the rapporteur has the opportunity to come up here and finish his speech later, if that is the case. There are some questions, and first it's from Mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213124924	In this case, the rapporteur could consider donating some of his voting power to the Minister so that we could have it evened out a little here. Karina Adsbøl I like to give a little). I have no doubt about the involvement of the Danish People's Party in relation to the elderly area. It is a commitment that we share in the Enhedslisten with the Danish People's Party. I would also like to mention the rock map scheme, which we also support, and which was introduced at the initiative of the Enhedslisten at the time, why the municipalities have cut the rock map scheme. This is because there has been general under-financing of the municipalities and municipal welfare. It is not because there have been evil politicians in the municipalities saying that they want to cut this away. This is because there has been under-financing for several years, and this has happened, among other things. through economic agreements and finance law, which the Danish People's Party has also voted on. There has been underfunding, and then there have been some pools that the municipalities have then used to patch up where otherwise there have been savings. So I should just like to ask whether Mrs Karina Adsbøl cannot confirm that the municipal agreement made this year, as a whole, gives a much greater boost to municipal welfare than the municipal agreements concluded in previous years have given?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213125038	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213125039	Thank you. Now I have a new chairman, or rather a forewoman, in the chair next to me. First Vice-President, here you go. Yes, I can confirm that the government in office and the KL are making economic agreements at any time, and then they are negotiating an agreement as good as what they are now achieving. And yes, I also think it is good that an economic agreement has been negotiated, certainly, but it is not enough to have an economic agreement. What I am also talking about here from the platform is whether or not we can be sure what the money is going to do. Are they being used in the right places? After all, it is also a matter of priorities in the municipalities, whether you should give priority to an art turf or warm hands in the care of the elderly. Well, that's what this is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213125130	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213125132	But that priority also depends precisely on how much money is being given, because it is clear that if the municipalities are not given enough funds to solve the task they are given, with the increasing number of elderly people and children, then you have to make a hard-core priority, and then you will have to cut back, also on the care of the elderly, and then we can come up with some pools and stand and polish the glorie and say: Now we are giving some money, but the money is really just used to cancel savings that had already been announced. That is why it is absolutely necessary to see economic agreements in the context of the Finance Act, and that is where we just have to see that with these economic agreements and this financial bill, we are creating a growth rate of 1.3 per cent in the public economy, which is beyond the demographic trend. So we have not seen this before in the years of a bourgeois government.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213125213	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213125214	Well, I don't think, sir. Peder Hvelplund is quite fair, for it is the case that every time the Danish People's Party has gone to the polls or entered a negotiating room, we have put the elderly area high on the agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213125241	The next question is Mr. Nils Sjøberg of the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213125244	Thank you, and thank you for raising this case. When I want to ask, it is because the Danish People's Party held the decisive votes in the Danish Parliament 1⁄2 years ago. I think that there are a great many issues that have not been resolved during the period that we have just been through. Therefore, I would like to ask: when the Danish People's Party has been sitting with the decisive voices and the goodwill is certainly present and we fully agree on the issues that professional Seniers, the Elders Case and others draw attention to really serious issues that we are trying to work with now. How can it be that these issues have not been resolved?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213125326	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213125327	Thank you for a very good question. I could send my speech to the rapporteur afterwards, where I can recount all the things that the Danish People's Party has fought for in the area of the elderly and has been given off in the area of the elderly, and also in relation to the earmarked funds. What I have raised here today is also the concern that there has been no special earmarking for the elderly. What is there is that we have reached an agreement, but we do not actually know what those funds have been used for. We can only see that as soon as funds are not earmarked for certain areas, including the elderly, they are often spent on something else. But now it will be exciting to see how and how it is going to happen. Because as it sounds here, that economic agreement had to solve everything, but I just don't believe that. There are still major challenges that we need to focus on here by the Danish Parliament, and that is why I am raising this debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213125424	Sir. Nils Sjøberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213125426	There is no doubt that the economic agreement that has been made here is better than the economic agreements that have been under the bourgeois government. That is why we in the Radical Left, among other things. I've been in on this deal. And there is no doubt that we only regard this as a beginning. I think that applies to all parties here. But I would like to return to the question I asked just now: when the Danish People's Party has actually been sitting with the decisive votes, how can it be that there has been no earmarking when it has been a wish?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213125456	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213125457	Right now, we are not at the Finance Act table. It was the case that we would like to see an extra billion for the elderly, among other things. with SF. And then you talk a lot about the economic agreement, but if no one had taken responsibility when we had a crisis and made some reforms, then the economy would not have looked as it does today. I just think that's worth remembering. And then I can send you a list of all the initiatives we have taken in the area of the elderly. I could, of course, turn it around and ask: what is the policy on the elderly of the Radicals?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213125531	The next question is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213125534	Thank you for that, and also thank you from me for calling the question debate, and thank you for a very good cooperation with the Danish People's Party on elderly care. I think that we both care for the elderly equally. We both come from there and some of the initiatives that the rapporteur is reading, I can recognize, among other things. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. If, in fact, we succeed in drawing up a financial agreement where the money can keep up with demographic developments, then we have been discussing this issue again and again over the last four years, and finally the rapporteur does not think that we are well on the way to giving the municipalities the opportunity to do the job?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213125634	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213125635	I think it is very good that the money goes with the demographic trait as it is called. I fully acknowledge that. That is also what the Danish People's Party has always said, and we have never voted for negative growth either. But as the SF's rapporteur gets up, I would just like to follow up on our little pact, our cooperation. After all, our Presidents agreed that an extra billion would be required for the elderly, and it is only disappointing to note that this was not the case. It did not turn into an earmarked billion for the elderly area, but I hope that the SF will continue to fight the battle at the table.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213125724	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213125725	Fortunately, we are on our way and hopefully there will be a very long parliamentary term yet to do a lot of good work in. But the point is, sir. Peder Hvelplund also mentioned before that if the money does not go along with the demography, you really have to eat up earmarked funds, and it is always better to make sure that you get money for what is actually needed than what we are guessing from here that the individual may need. Does the rapporteur not agree with... [Sound emission].
ParlaMint-DK_20191213125803	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213125804	I don't think we're going to do it myself, at least not sitting here guessing what's needed. I myself have the feeling that I am in daily contact with people and organisations, among others. Older Case, and out for a visit. I visited a lovely woman in Assens Municipality during the election campaign, where we were in a debate about Assens Municipality's cuts. So I don't think it's something about us politicians guessing what the money's for. Now you gave a rock card system precisely because you knew that it was needed, and people are very fond of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213125845	The next question is Mrs Birgitte Vind, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213125847	Thank you. And thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I notice, of course, that the rapporteur is very fond of the elderly, and many of us are, so we are very pleased that you are so concerned about it. What I just notice is the talk about how much money we're all gonna find for this area. So I would just like to hear from the rapporteur about this. Because it is the case that the bourgeois government, which the rapporteur's party supported, would increase public spending by 0.7 per cent, and we have said that we will increase it by 1.3 per cent. And I can't really make it fit with this billion kroner that the Danish People's Party wants to increase it with, so how does the Danish People's Party really imagine it could happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213125939	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213125941	Oh, there have been many suggestions for it, including from the Social Democrats, that is, in relation to what it should be on, whether it should be 0.6%, whether it should be 0.8%, or whether it should be 0.3 percent. I mean, that discussion about what it should be on has been going on a lot of times. For the Danish People's Party, it is important that the money goes with it, and in addition to that we would have liked to see an extra older billion, i.e. 1 billion. kr. earmarked for the elderly area. It is a bid from here, precisely in relation to this: that the money must of course be there, but it is also about how to spend the money that is, how to prioritise out there in the municipalities. And there we are just saying that if the municipalities are not entirely able to figure out the priorities, then we would really like to help them; then we would really like to help them prioritise the area of the elderly, to prioritise the rock map scheme, to give priority to care. Now we just have a government that does not want to include the clipboard scheme in the legislation and does not want to include care in the legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213130034	Mrs. Birgitte Wind.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213130036	I can't get a clear answer, I can hear it, but I'm just trying one last time anyway: can it still be done with this one billion kroner that the Danish People's Party would like to add if you only want to raise public spending by 0.7 per cent.? I just still can't make the math work out.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213130053	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213130055	No, and it may be difficult for the rapporteur to figure out when the rapporteur has some sort of calculation in front of him based on some statements that have been made in the discussion on how much public growth should be. I understand that is difficult for the rapporteur. I say here from the platform that it is important that the money goes with the citizens; that it is important that a dignified care for the elderly is given priority. And there I can just see that the government has not earmarked any funds for the elderly beyond a pool, so you really do not know if the elderly area is getting the boost that the government says they are doing in relation to the municipal agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213130133	The next question is Mr. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213130137	Thank you for calling this exciting debate. Just in order to set a framework, can the rapporteur confirm that if you break the population down at age intervals, the elderly are the ones who have made the greatest economic progress in the last ten years?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213130152	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213130154	Sometimes I cannot help but smile about the fact that there are some parliamentary politicians who are asking questions to which they know the answer. It may well be that this is the way the rapporteur says; it may well be because the rapporteur is a wise man. However, what I would like to say in relation to this question debate and I know that is something that the Liberal Alliance is in favour of is in relation to the debureaucratisation. I have noticed that the rapporteur has been on tour with it. What is interesting is to find out where in this area we are going to debureaucratize the EU just in view of the fact that the rapporteur's own elder minister set this work in motion, which was completed in 2018 in the form of a report. And the present government has also included it in their understanding paper: to find out where to debureaucratize.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213130250	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213130253	I do not think we should talk about people who are not here in the Chamber. But older people are the group that has made the greatest economic progress, and if you look at the group of those over 85 years of age, two thirds of them think they have good health. In other words, should not the premise of the debate be that older people have a good economy and that most of them have quite good health?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213130317	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213130319	I think that next time the rapporteur could call a question debate on that part. Now I have called for a question debate, which among other things. There are 77 000 elderly people who do not receive the help they need and to focus on the challenges they face. And then the rapporteur is welcome to call for a debate focusing on the things that work well.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213130342	So the question to the rapporteur in this round has been answered by the rapporteur, so thank you for that. The next rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mrs Birgitte Vind. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213130358	Thank you for the floor and thank you for raising the debate on a safe old age. This is an area in which the Social Democrats have a very high agenda and in which, since the parliamentary elections, the government has taken several major steps in the right direction. After many years of cuts in our common welfare, the government has in recent months made three important agreements that strengthen and develop welfare. Thank you to the Danes for giving us that mandate. As rapporteur for the elderly, I am, of course, very pleased that we can now finally look to the future. In September, the government concluded economic agreements with both the regions and the municipalities. With the agreements, we ensured that the municipalities continue to have an economy similar to that of the elderly. The government has also announced that it will present a proposal for a welfare law, and it must ensure that the money will also come with us in the future when we grow older, thus providing the right financial framework to ensure good and proper care for the elderly. Similarly, we have also ensured economics for hospitals to be able to keep up with when new forms of treatment are introduced. The President of the regions said that the agreement offers the greatest boost to health reform since the financial crisis. In November, the trip to the capital of the social, health and labour market reserve was launched. Under the previous government, the rate pool became, inter alia: had financed the dementia trade plan, closed down. The funds for the dementia trade plan were due to expire and we managed to reach a broad political agreement that secured 244 million. kr. to continue working on several good initiatives in the dementia trade plan, including: advice and activity centres for dementia victims and their relatives. Here, like the Minister, I would like to thank a broad majority in the Danish Parliament for supporting that we can continue the efforts of citizens with dementia. And I would also like to say special thanks to DF, I hear. In the execution of the reserve, 20 million were also set aside. kr. in the period 2020-21 to continue working with the system of permanently affiliated doctors to our care centres as well as 20.3 million. kr. in 2021-22 to a pool for more homeliness at the nursing home. These are some very good initiatives. Here in December, the government succeeded in establishing a financial law agreement, where among other things: funds have been allocated to employing 1,000 more nurses up to 2021. But there is, of course, not least the 125 million. kr. is devoted to strengthening care and presence in the care of the elderly, for our very skilled and dedicated staff very often experience that they need to spend time on tasks that are not directly related to care for the elderly or the sick, and therefore we will now initiate a study on how we can reduce the paperwork for the employees. Social democracy is concerned with giving municipalities the opportunity to build up the close and secure care of the elderly, and with the three agreements here the government is setting a new direction for Denmark, where we strengthen our common welfare and thus also the elderly area. As the old DR ad said about the license, I would like to say: welfare is something we give to each other • and the above measures are very good examples of. I would certainly not say that we are in the right direction, but we have taken some steps in the right direction. Many tasks need to be solved in the future, and some of what we do not know all the answers to yet, but surely will correct our strong spotlight, is how in future, together with municipalities and regions, we can get trained, recruited and retained the workforce. It is simply a bottom-up task which must be solved jointly and which I hope everyone will help to solve. Then, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten, the Socialist People's Party and the Alternative, I shall read out the text of the agreement and present the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament considers safe and dignified care of the elderly crucial. The cost of welfare must follow the demographic trait, cf. The understanding paper. The Danish Parliament notes that the 2020 economic agreement raises the municipalities' economy by 1.7 billion. kr. in relation to 2019. Expenditure follows demographic development as a minimum, and core welfare is lifted so that municipalities can give priority to a real increase in care for the elderly. The Financial Act 2020 allocates money to more presence, care and security in the care of the elderly. The agreement on the social, health and labour market reserve ensures the necessary follow-up to the dementia action plan. The government is proposing a welfare law to ensure that the demographic features of welfare are covered. Towards the future, focus should be on the major challenge facing the older sector, with the recruitment of employees, the reduction of bureaucracy and pointless control requirements, as well as the increasing inequality among the elderly. It should also focus on the necessary innovation, improvement and innovation in the elderly in the broadest sense, so that new generations of older people experience that care for the elderly is adapted to them and not vice versa. • V 37).
ParlaMint-DK_20191213130859	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a proposal for adoption which will be included in the further negotiations. Then there are a number of the rapporteurs who have asked for brief comments. The first is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213130913	Thank you. As a social and health assistant, I've been used to having to document. This is among other things. in the form of fluid schedules, stool schedules and medical marks. It is also an important tool when working with people, even when there is shift change, in relation to how things are going and how you follow up. That is why I would like to hear from the rapporteur: what exactly does the government think should not be documented? Where exactly can you find documentation that you can save away and where is it that you can debureaucratize that the government is setting up? There are some things that need to be recorded. But what should be left out of the register? I would like to hear the rapporteur's suggestion in this debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213131003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213131006	Thank you for the floor and thank you for the question, which is indeed very relevant. That is also why we are now setting up a task force to find ways of reducing the requirement for documentation and avoiding unnecessary administrative work for employees. We know that there is a great deal of necessary documentation, and we also know that some of it is vital. So we simply cannot avoid it. What I experience when I'm around older centres and especially in the run-out home care is that there are really big challenges for the staff in getting it documented within a day. So some of what I'm thinking you're going to look at, but I'm not a professional, I certainly hope that there are some who have more understanding of it than I can point to it is where we can make it easier and more flexible in our daily lives, so we take time away from the administrative and to the close care. But, of course, it should not cost lives or mean disease that you do not document.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213131058	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213131102	All right, all I can say is that the rapporteur did not have any idea what to do with documentation, apart from the fact that the rapporteur said that staff are having difficulty in documenting. But then I would like to hear from the rapporteur about funding for the elderly: how will the rapporteur ensure that the funds that have now been allocated also go to the elderly area? How will the Minister ensure that such a person as Einar will be able to go to a nursing home and that he can still maintain his rock card system? How will the rapporteur ensure this?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213131138	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213131142	Now I'm just being made Minister... it was nice, thank you for that; I'll take that to heart. It was just before I got so freaked out that I didn't notice what you were asking me. I can't believe I've really become a minister! What you asked me was how we're gonna make sure the money goes to the senior area... I can see that I have 8 seconds left. We are in the process of adopting a welfare law, and I hope that it will help to ensure at least the demographic features, and that money will certainly go to the area of the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213131218	Could the rapporteur also remember that, whether you are a minister or a rapporteur, there is no direct indictment from the platform. The next question is Mrs Jane Heitmann from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213131233	Thank you for that and also thank you for the rapporteur's speech. A moment ago I asked the Minister about the 1.7 billion agreement. kr., which the government has entered into with KL, and was comforted that there is enough money out there. I would like to ask you about these nine points of the welfare issue, which the Socialists promised the Danes before the elections. One of the points in this nine-point plan is point no. 4 is called more home help hours and more nursing homes. After all, funds are now being allocated to the municipalities. If you ask the government, you sometimes get the impression that it will flow with milk and honey. I understand that you are not interested in earmarked funds, and I just want to hear: how many more home help lessons will we see in the coming year, and how many more nursing homes will we see out there?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213131336	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213131340	Thank you. Fortunately, it is up to the municipalities themselves to decide where to take action. They know where the shoe's pulling. After all, there is a great deal of difference and I am sure that the rapporteur also knows about the municipalities. So, of course, there will also be a big difference between where you put in with what. We have very, very much confidence that the municipalities can now, with these many, many more funds that they have been given to do good with, intervene where they need it. There is a difference between how many, for example. home-help classes in the various municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213131408	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213131412	The Socialists went to elections on a welfare promise, namely that something should now happen in the municipalities. We have heard good reasons why we do not think that the funds should be earmarked, because we are full of confidence in local self-government. It is also an excellent point of view to have, but at the same time, as a Social Democrat, you have gone to the polls on the ground, and that is not something I am inventing here to promise the Danes more home help hours and more nursing homes. So I am simply asking about the Social Democrats' own policy. I just ask again: when you go to the polls that you want more home help hours and that you want more nursing homes, and when you even said from the platform yourself that more money has come to the municipalities, how many more home help hours will we see in the coming years out in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213131500	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213131503	I would very much like to repeat what I said just now, namely that I am very confident that it is the municipalities that decide whether it is more home help hours or whether it is more nursing homes. After all, what is needed varies from municipality to municipality.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213131515	The next question is Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213131527	I do not always share the tribute of social democracy to local self-government. Does the rapporteur recognise that the municipalities also spend money in areas which are completely decoupled from basic core welfare?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213131538	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213131541	I am not supposed to be able to say that in individual municipalities. Basically, I know that all municipalities are concerned with providing good welfare for their citizens, and that is what the municipalities are set up to do. So I'm sure they're preoccupied with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213131554	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213131557	Now I have spent 4 years in Aarhus City Council, i.e. in a social democratically run municipality. I can say that money is spent on anything but basic core welfare. The municipality of Aarhus has spent almost 0.5 billion in the last 5 years. kr. to external consultants. At the same time, it is a municipality where 60%. of all primary schools are out of date. When you give more money from the Folketing to the municipalities, there is no guarantee that that money will be spent on it. The same thing happens when you say you want a thousand more teachers, and then you give some money to the municipalities, where there is no requirement that you spend it on teachers. Then they might as well use them on central government and management rather than on basic core welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213131631	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213131634	I simply do not recognise that premise, because it is the case that the municipalities have to carry out these tasks, so of course they do. It is also the case that a municipality is free to use the funds they want for children and the elderly, as they can best distribute it. I don't want to buy that premise. It may be that Aarhus Municipality has chosen external consultants. Many municipalities do. The left-wing municipality, for which I have been on the city council for nine years, has certainly done so. So I don't think it's about what mayor's color is.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213131700	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no more questions for the rapporteur, therefore it is now the rapporteur of the Left, Mrs Jane Heitmann. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213131714	Thank you for the floor, President. Thank you to the Danish People's Party for calling the Minister for such an important question debate on our elderly. The area of the elderly is a priority for us in the Left. It is vital for us to be able to meet our old age safely, just as it is essential that our older people now and here experience security in everyday life, that the older people of today and the future can be comforted in providing a decent care and care. This requires that we have a strong welfare society that holds hands under us when, after a long and hard life, we need society to step in and look after us. That is why, over the last few years, the Left has had a particularly strong focus on new initiatives in the area of the elderly; initiatives which have contributed in various ways to raising the elderly. We have together with Dansk Folkeparti among others. taken the initiative of a dignity billionaire, a clipboard scheme for our elderly so that they have freedom of self-chosen activities, and renovation of nursing home kitchens so that our elderly can again enjoy the smell of fresh prepared food where they live because it is dignity. Just as we are both pleased and proud of the initiatives we have taken, we in the Left are also deeply, deeply concerned about the priorities of the new Socialist Government in the area of the elderly, because they are virtually non-existent. And we have to set aside funds for the continuation of the dementia action plan. At the heart of the matter, it was so depressing that the new Social Democratic Government, which elected to lift welfare, had only chosen to continue 3 out of 23 initiatives in the dementia action plan. The Dementia Action Plan has ensured a boost for dementes and their relatives, but we are still far from achieving it. The rejection of priorities in the area of the elderly must be interpreted as meaning that welfare is only for selected groups and that our elderly are clearly not in the Cretaceous House of Social Democrats. And when I put it that way, yes, it is because it is not just the dementia action plan that seemed to suffer a harsh fate, because with the new Finance Act that the Red Government has entered into with the support parties, yes, the older area has not just run over, it has run into a ditch. And I fully agree with the Elders' Chairman, Bjarne Hastrup, who said to Ritzau in connection with the government's Finance Act: "We are shocked that there are so few concrete initiatives in the Finance Act that help weakened elderly people. The elderly area has been temporarily treated. And yes, the Finance Act is skinny. There is a small initiative of 125 million. kr. and a pool for an experimental scheme to be applied to by the municipalities. And it is something paradoxical that the Red Government is setting up another pool when Mette Frederiksen thundered against the pool system last year and announced a fight with the pools. Yes, as you know, you have a position until you take a new one, and that is often the case with social democrats, you are tempted to say so. It means one before the elections and another after the elections. By 2030 we will have about 230,000 more elderly people. If the elderly of today and of the future are to be given a dignified care that they deserve, it is the wrong way to go when the Socialists write our elderly out of the Finance Act. During the last period, we had to put our ears back and forth to the Social Democrats' Astrid Krag, who was hard on the elderly, Thyra Frank, for not having legislative proposals included in the legislative catalogue. So, honestly, I couldn't help but smile, Minister, when I saw the government's own law catalogue. In the area of older people, there is not a single draft Does the government have no ambition whatsoever in the area of the elderly? I'm just asking. Many elderly people in the coming years will need both care and care in the municipalities, and although the government has promised the Danes 1,000 new nurses, it is not immediately for the weakened elderly at home in the municipalities to benefit that the government has chosen to give priority to the new nursing positions for the hospitals of the regions. Time and again, the government hangs their hat on the economic agreement with the municipalities, but it does not guarantee the big boost promised before the elections. And recently we read in the press that the government's Finance Act with the Red Parties increases inequality in Danish society. Must be embarrassing. And time and again we have to hear that the Socialists want early retirement for the worn out. But honestly, when is it that Arne can retire? Aren't you gonna make words act soon? Leaving Denmark's grandparents in the lurch is unhealthy social democratic politics and very little clothes on for a party that went to the polls to strengthen welfare. In Denmark about 33,000 elderly people feel lonely, and about 8,000 are waiting for a senior residence. The Left would have liked the government to have given priority to financial legislative initiatives in order to stem inequalities and ensure efforts and care targeted, for example. the lonely elderly who wake up every morning to a gray and sad everyday life outside the community. In his opening address to the Danish Parliament, the Prime Minister rattled with the sable of free elections. The free choice is a fundamental value and it is pure poison if the Socialists are playing with the idea of reducing the opportunities for older people to freely choose the provider of personal care. In 2018, 36 per cent were received. by our elderly private home help • and why deprive them of that opportunity? For us in the Left, it is absolutely crucial that we have something to choose from, both in relation to day care institutions, schools and care for the elderly. People are different and have different preferences... that's true all their lives.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213132252	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The first one's from sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213132301	Thank you. Sometimes the rhetorical self-fatness drives so thick down the walls in here in the Parliament hall that you have to react to it. Let us start by saying that I fully agree with Mrs Jane Heitmann that the elderly need to be given priority and that all the problems with the initiatives that have been taken here have not been resolved at all, but a prerequisite for ensuring dignified care for the elderly is to cover the cost of the demographic trait. The fact that there are more elderly people means that more funds must be allocated to the municipalities. I just have to say that the previous government, both through economic agreements and through financial laws, has not covered the demographic trait, and this has meant that savings have been made in the care of the elderly. The fact that you subsequently needed to go out and polish the gloria in financial negotiations and have said that you are now bringing an elderly billion, that you are now bringing a dignity billion, which will be used to cover the gap you have dug for the municipalities yourself in the economic agreement, is, after all, a rather cheap way of shining. So I will just listen to the rapporteur whether the rapporteur cannot confirm that the economic and financial agreements concluded by the previous government have not covered the demographic features.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213132417	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213132421	I can confirm that the previous government has actually raised the welfare of the municipalities in relation to the situation that the former Social Democratic Government left behind in 2015. These were some dark years from 2011 to 2015 in Denmark. Those were some dark years, for hard cuts were made in Danish welfare. So it was a huge task when we took over the government in 2015, again to raise the welfare of Denmark, and we have done so. We have raised welfare in relation to the level and the starting point that we had when we took over the government power in 2015, when we had, after all, cut back in relation to the municipal economy. These were some black years, so I can very much confirm that yes, we have raised the welfare of that starting point.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213132510	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213132513	Now that's not what I asked for. What I was asking for was whether the demographic features had been covered in those years, and I know that, and I think the rapporteur knows that, too. And in the same period, when it seemed possible to provide tax relief for 24 billion. kr., was also driven by some years, when it was thought that what was affordable for growth in the public economy was a place of about 0.6%. We can only see that with the financial law and the economic agreement that has been concluded here, there will be an increase in public consumption of 1.3 per cent, which means that we can really go in and cover the demographic trend. And that is what is required for us to be able to provide proper care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213132548	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213132552	I can confirm that we have lifted the municipal economy during the period of government power, and I would like to reiterate that yes, it was some dark years in the period 2011-2015, when there was negative growth in the municipalities. There we have changed from a minus to a plus, and I am proud of that, and I am glad that there have been better opportunities in the municipalities to give priority to both care for the elderly, schools and children's institutions. I'm proud and happy about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213132617	The next question is Mrs Birgitte Vind, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213132620	Thank you and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I can hear that the rapporteur has an idea of having to tell a story about the Social Democracy as a party and, moreover, she brings the support parties into the rebirth that does not want the elderly to do well and does not put money into it. I just want to hear something from the rapporteur. If 1.7 billion. kr., which is far, far more than the previous government devoted over 4 years, is not a boost to welfare and care for the elderly, what is it?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213132656	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213132659	I fully recognise that 1.7 billion has been set aside. kr. on the municipality agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213132701	Mrs. Birgitte Wind.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213132709	I'm really glad. Will the rapporteur also confirm that this is also a boost to care for the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213132715	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213132718	I don't know. When the Socialist rapporteur was on the floor, I asked a few questions about, among others. nursing homes and nursing hours, and what we'll get next year more. But the rapporteur did not know that, and I do not know that either, because the funds are not earmarked, so we cannot know how much goes into care for the elderly. I have asked the same question to the Minister for Health in the past, but it may well be that the Minister for Health will tell it when he goes to the platform, i.e. how much older people will be raised by means of the municipal agreement. That would be super interesting. I have asked the question in the past but have not received an answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213132751	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213132756	Thank you. A little along the lines of that: 1.7 billion. kr. to the municipalities, which can at least finally cover the demographic trait, compared to the fact that more and more elderly people are in need of help, is therefore considerably more than what we have seen in the last four years • 4 years, which was not a dark year, but was just an upswing year, which was after the crisis year, which was the year when we could clean up the welfare. And yet, in the last four years, the government did not manage to make a municipal agreement or a financial agreement that ensured that the demographic move could be followed. Does the rapporteur recognise that the former Minister for Economic Affairs has repeatedly confirmed that the demographic move was not followed by the fact that it meant that the previous government should be dealt with through efficiency improvements?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213132851	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213132854	I think, to be honest, that there are many ways to tackle the challenge that by 2030 we will have 230,000 more elderly people. I simply do not believe that money alone does that. It may be that the Socialists believe it or the SF believes it. I don't believe it's money alone that does it. I think we should also move as a community. We need to take on board new technologies. We need to be smarter at designing, we need to solve the tasks in new ways. There must be a lot of things in play, and we must have the whole palette in play. It is also about economics, but it is also about the way we work in our way, as I said, to take in new technologies and use them to strengthen and lift the care of the elderly, both for the benefit of those who work out there, but also for the benefit of the elderly. So I don't recognise that it's just about money.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213132951	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213132956	I am just so happy to hear that. In fact, I wonder whether this means that the rapporteur will consider his text for adoption once more on the basis that it is only about money and does not even take account of the fact that there is indeed a priority for the municipalities, money for local freedom, to give priority to what matters in the individual municipalities, which, of course, have very different conditions and, incidentally, also very different population compositions. The exact relationship was the reason why, for example, the rock map disappeared. Because you needed the money, and a lot of people didn't use it. So could it be imagined that the rapporteur was reconsidering his text for adoption?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213133034	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213133038	I can read out the last paragraph if it can help the SF's rapporteur: the Danish Parliament instructs the government to give priority to the elderly area and among other things. focus on loneliness, distrust and senior communities. The Folketing wishes to strengthen the professional quality of care for the elderly and to propose solutions to recruitment challenges in the area of the elderly. A challenge that the Danish Parliament will follow up on. ▪ There can be many ways to focus on loneliness and misfortune and senior housing communities.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213133104	The next question is Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213133108	I simply have to ask a question, because a lot of nonsense is being said right now. Could the rapporteur not confirm that the demographic feature is a mechanical calculation model which is basically designed to determine the long-term sustainability of an economy? If you have a demographic trait, it is no guarantee that you will neither lift the basic core welfare nor lower the basic core welfare, because it depends on how you spend the money, and it depends on whether there is an improvement in efficiency at the same time, whether there is a re-prioritisation from those people who are responsible for spending these funds at the same time.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213133150	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213133154	Well, I fully agree with the rapporteur that when we deal with the demographic move, there can be many ways to do so. It is both about the economy, but it is also about the way in which we organize our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213133204	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213133209	Thank you. I'm glad you confirm that. For it is as if right now, on the left, the demographic trait is being used as some sort of sacred cow to say that all basic core welfare is now guaranteed. And it is by no means. It is such a false premise that is being laid out to the citizens. So I am glad that the rapporteur of the Left also says that the demographic trait is not this sacred cow, where it can be said that there is good basic core welfare out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213133228	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213133232	Thank you for that clarification.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213133239	The next question is Mr. Nils Sjøberg of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213133244	I would like to thank the rapporteur and welcome the fact that the rapporteur is also aware that care for the elderly is also about something other than money and that older people as such are also a very unhomogeneous group. I note that the rapporteur points out that we have a position until we take a new one, and I also note that the rapporteur points out that we have one position before an election and another after an election. I think that is very much the case with what the Left is saying here. What I would like to ask is whether we have talked a lot about the rock map scheme, and it has not really been implemented under the previous civil government, whether there are other areas in which the former bourgeois government managed in any way to earmark some of the money to be given to the elderly area.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213133326	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213133329	Well, I just need to make sure I get the question right. The questioner asks how many areas have succeeded in earmarking funds in addition to the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213133340	No. I would like to know in what areas the previous government managed to earmark money for the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213133347	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213133350	To the senior area. After all, we have mentioned the rock card scheme several times. One could also mention the pot for nursing home kitchens, and one could also mention the clip card scheme for deciding more for oneself how to spend your time. This is something we in the Left appreciate, that is to say, that we have free choice and that, even if we are older, we have a high degree of self-determination. I have now mentioned three initiatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213133415	I would like to make a very brief second comment to the questioner, since the first remark came in two rounds. So here you go for a brief second remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213133422	Thank you. If so, I would like to ask how much money is involved?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213133426	It was short. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213133443	There I simply have to be the questioner's answer, in relation to what is all of the economy in the three initiatives, because I simply cannot remember that on a stand-by basis. But if I don't remember quite wrong, it was with the Finance Act in 2018 that the elderly area was the area that was lifted mostly if I don't remember quite wrong on a stand-by basis, but I think it was with the Finance Act for 2018. So there has been a high priority for the elderly sector alone, which adds 1 billion. kr. extra each year, is a gigantic boost.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213133501	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur on the platform is the rapporteur from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Nils Sjøberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213133514	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you to Mrs Adsbøl, who has proposed the question here. I am very pleased that the area of elderly people is now being given a general priority. It is, after all, a shared experience and that we are all very much concerned about it. So far, a little has been patched up in the area with an old check every now and then. There has not been what we had hoped for when we had an elderly minister. I am therefore pleased that we have so far agreed with the new government to increase the local economy by 1.7 billion. kr. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In this way, we are following the cost of demographic development, we are ensuring that core welfare is lifted, and this is the first step, with a real increase in the care of the elderly, that we are doing here. But when I say that we must be aware that this is a first step, it is because much remains to be done. The Radical Left would very much like to help to rectify this. But in this area too there is a new direction. Since the elections, money has been set aside for a new effort to increase the presence, care, security in the care of the elderly and what has been very close to the Radical Left: a necessary follow-up to the dementia action plan. It has also had an impact on us. Here we want preventive action in close cooperation with the Alzheimer's Association. For us, it is about helping the poor pensioners, the most needy, the sick and establishing some of the many thousands of elderly homes that we need, and about creating good and better opportunities for those who can take care of themselves as long as they can take care of themselves. It's about giving security to these people... and all of us... because fortunately we live longer. In other words, we need more closeness. We have reason to respect the individual elderly. Older people's policy in the Folketing must be very much about what we can do to help the most disadvantaged elderly, and it is quite true that there are some significant challenges. In our policy, we will build to a large extent on a future guarantee of care and care for the elderly. We stress the importance of recruitment in the proposal for adoption that has been made. We attach importance to limiting the senseless control. For the Radical Left, it also means a great deal that we will have more nursing homes and elderly homes. We have to work with the Elders Case, and we meet with them immediately after Christmas. There are 25,000 nursing homes missing in Denmark. And the Radical Left attaches importance to the possibility of living in an old-fashioned community and community, but also to the right to live in one's own home. We also want more to be done about the growing inequality among the elderly. Everyone must have the right to retire. This is also important for the Radical Left. In this context, however, it is also essential for us to make it possible for the elderly in some way to remain on the labour market as long as possible. There have been some very good proposals from the trade unions, which we would like to include. We would like to give the pensioner the opportunity to work without any set-off in the pension. We need a skilled and qualified workforce and, in this context, clearly experienced labour. And the Folketing must help to create the framework for new opportunities in the labour market. Socially, there is no doubt that it means a great deal to us that pensioners work more. They must be given the opportunity to do so, and we must create proper conditions for it. We'd be happy to help with that. But in the voluntary sector too there is reason to work much more with it. We must recognise it, we must respect it and we must open up opportunities for volunteering. It is absolutely essential that older people who work are not punished. In fact, I see in the country that the circle of friends in Vojens is in the situation that they are being punished because they are kind enough to arrange to bring some things for others. But when they go to the garbage dump with the excess items they have gotten from different places, they have to pay for it. So in this area too, it is essential that we look at what opportunities we can create for the elderly. The legacy is crucial for us. We want innovation. We want a clear position on how to create better care for the elderly in this area. We want innovation. On the whole, we want to contribute to the creation of an elderly care system which provides a basis for new development. Therefore, we also want to put together a National Older Council so that we can gather everything that has to do with the elderly area there are many inputs so that we can show respect for the elderly and create good conditions for the elderly. I would like to conclude by quoting Piet Hein, who says that we are born as copies but die as originals. It is absolutely vital to remember that we have so much in us when we get older. And hopefully we'll all reach that age. Those were my words, thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213134045	Thank you to the rapporteur. The first question to the rapporteur is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213134052	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I sat down here smiling, 'cause I thought, "Oh, my God, that's a lot of things the Radicals wanted in the area of the elderly." That is why my question to the rapporteur is this: of all the things the rapporteur listed, what things did the Radicals bring into the financial law negotiations in the area of the elderly? Which of the things the rapporteur has mentioned were included in the financial legislation negotiations? And the reason I am asking is that in May there was a parliamentary candidate for the Radical Left who had a speech in the newspaper. The post went on: "My party has completely forgotten the concern for older citizens. The signal from the party leader to the radical local politicians could not be more clear: it is the children that must be given priority. Or culture. That is why it is an interesting speech made by the rapporteur, so I look forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213134148	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213134150	Thank you and thank you for the question. What has basically been important to us is also what I pointed out first of all is that there is a group of weak elderly people that must be ensured, and that is the group that we have emphasised in the first place. In other areas, we want to enter into negotiations on how to create better opportunities for older people in the labour market, etc. But basically, the most important thing for us has been the weak elderly, who have not taken enough care of before, so that has been what we went into the financial law negotiations with, and that is why we, among other things, are. has been part of a Finance Act which promises the economy with 1.7 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213134225	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213134229	That was not really a clear answer, so I have to ask more precisely. When the rapporteur says that it is the weak elderly that we want to help, first of all the rapporteur is asked to define the weak elderly, and then the rapporteur is allowed to explain what priority is given to the weak elderly. What do the weak elderly get? How will the rapporteur explain what the weak elderly will get in connection with this financial law?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213134301	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213134306	Thank you. That, among other things. The emphasis is that there can be more labour, that there can be more help for the elderly. This is one of the things we attach importance to, so we want to help train people, and we want to help recruit more people in the municipalities. A large part of the care for the elderly, a large part of the elderly, takes place in the municipalities, so it is a question of giving them an opportunity not to have to lay off, what a great many municipalities have unfortunately had to do at this stage to dismiss people who have taken care of this particular area and to make sure that they have the opportunity to secure an economy, so that they can, among other things, make more money available. can help this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213134339	The next question is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213134346	Thank you. I was not really going to have to ask you anything, and the rapporteur is going to go into the matter of how it should be worthwhile to work. In my association I also have friends who have reached the age of retirement and who, fortunately, can still work and who really want to, because it just makes their everyday life much easier than if it had been the case that they had to settle for their folk pension, which is what many others have to do. So I simply do not understand what the rapporteur means when the rapporteur says that some people pay to go to work, that it costs pensioners something to go to work. In my head, it is an improvement in my life situation when I am able to go to work when I have passed retirement age. But perhaps the rapporteur can try to do a little more about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213134433	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213134437	I'm sorry if I didn't make myself clear enough. What is crucial for us is that we allow people to stay on the labour market for as long as possible, and we want to give each individual the opportunity to keep or receive his or her pension, while at the same time making money alongside him. That's one part of it. The second group, to which the rapporteur refers in this context, is the group which is self-employed. Specifically, we find that humanitarian organisations are being penalised in a way, for example, by an elderly group in Vojens, which is a group that goes out and takes care of estates. They take care of estates, make sure to sell what they can sell, give the money they earn to the nursing home, and the rest they have to dispose of and drop off at a garbage dump. That's what they pay for. In other words, they are punished, if I may say so, for doing a humanitarian job. That is the group that it will help, and that is the group that we want to help, so that we have the opportunity to encourage people to do a great deal of volunteering. There are many people, many pensioners, who do a great deal of volunteering, and that is everything from caring for grandchildren to all sorts of other activities.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213134546	Thank you. Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen for a second brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213134550	I have to try again, because in my head it is so that if I am still able to work and prioritize doing so, which people are both able and willing to do, then it is worth more than retirement. But if I get paid, why is it that I also have to get a pension, because then I still have my pay? In my company I think people have an experience that they actually have a better life as long as they can still work and earn their own wages than when they have to settle for retirement. Why is it that the rapporteur thinks we should have boats and boats?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213134622	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213134625	It is a question of encouraging more people and giving more opportunities to be in the labour market. It does not really have to be an unlimited amount. However, proposals have been made by several parties, which we fully support, that we should be able to work and perhaps earn DKK 100,000. In addition to his pension. It will certainly mean, if you follow the professional Seniors calculation, that Danish society will be enriched by approx. 350 million kr. extra. It is considerably more money than we had imagined as such. That's their calculation: 350 million. kr. It is quite a positive amount and it will even contribute to people being able to work for as long as they want.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213134701	The next question is Mrs Jane Heitmann from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213134706	Thank you. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for a very exciting rapporteur's speech. In fact, in the Left, we share the point of departure that we must and must focus on our weakest elderly people. Where I was perhaps a little surprised was about the rapporteur's definition of the weakest elderly, namely that they are the ones to help out in the labour market. I hadn't just seen it coming, but of course there are many ways and many angles to look at things from. But let me ask the rapporteur something. In relation to what has now been brought to the market in the financial legislation negotiations, where is it quite concrete on the budget law that you can see the radical impression as far as the elderly are concerned?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213134744	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213134749	We are four parties that have agreed on a financial law, and we believe that what we, among others, are doing. has contributed to, is the 125 million. kr., which we want to contribute to various solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213134759	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213134802	Thank you for that information, i.e. the 125 million. kr. was the radical priority of the Finance Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213134812	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213134816	May I just say that, after all, we have also contributed to other solutions, such as: is 1.7 billion. kr. extra. We have tried to get through the things that we could get through with the relatively few mandates that we have at our disposal, and we have succeeded in doing so in the best possible way, I think, in this area too. Speaking of the 125 million. kr., so it's all about us wanting a series of experimental schemes in this area. So in addition to contributing to a general boost of 1.7 billion. kr., then we have also helped to set in motion a series of attempts.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213134850	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the SF, and that is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213134900	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for calling the question debate: What steps will the government take before the turn of the year to ensure that the Danes can safely meet their old age? And I would just like to say that we could set some people on the brink of boiling and baking some vanilla rans, but that is probably not what the rapporteur was thinking. But in the middle of December, it would have been a little obvious. Over the last three years, I have stood on this platform on many occasions and called for initiatives to ensure a secure old age for the elderly. The backdrop was that more and more elderly people needed help, while municipal budgets far from compensating for the increasing demand for elderly care. Elders The case has many times expressed concern about tighter visitation, which was an indication that it had become more difficult to get the help that was needed and when the same employees had to take care of more elderly people who, at the same time, had a much greater need for care and care, it naturally also affected the health of employees. And finally, rumors of the enormous pressure of work have, of course, also in themselves affected the interest in applying to social and health education. That was also the status when the former Prime Minister announced elections just before the summer break. In the SF, we went to the polls to ensure that the municipalities' budgets should be compensated for demographic developments where more and more elderly people will need help. I am very pleased that the first agreement on the municipalities' budgets has both ensured that budgets can keep up with demographic developments, and has also compensated to some extent for the huge erosion of budgets that we have seen over the last four years. That doesn't mean I'm satisfied, yet. There is still a great deal to be done. In the SF, we will continue to fight for older people to get the help they need in time. We want to combat the fact that aid to the weakest elderly should only be concentrated on baths and diapers and on food and toothbrushing. A worthy care for the elderly for the weakest is about the life that is being lived in the past, that is, everything that is going on when the necessary grooming is over. In the SF we will also fight for older people to have much more direct influence on the help they think they need. In the SF, we will fight for the freedom of well-trained employees to organise the work in a way that is consistent with the life that the older person himself wants to live. In the SF we will fight for lonely elderly people to have necessary security visits, where concerns about the hardships of ageing can be discussed with some professionals. In SF we will fight for fresh air and activities on their own terms to be part of everyday life. In the SF, we will fight for families to have much easier access to help with tasks that relatives would like to perform. In the SF we will fight for relatives to have the freedom to be present in the last days or hours of the life of the elderly. In SF we will fight the increased user fee, which sneaks in through the back door of the elderly care. And in SF we will fight for older people to have their own helper, because it in itself creates security when relationships and trust can go hand in hand with a daily life where a helping hand is needed. The clean-up work has only just begun. We are still in the work clothes and are very happy to keep it on until we reach the goal of an elderly care that we can be familiar with. The SF supports the adoption text which the Socialist rapporteur has read out. I would just like to thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213135259	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments. The first to ask for the floor is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213135315	Thank you. Of course, the rapporteur is also welcome to support our proposal for adoption. Thanks for the speech. I like it when the rapporteur talks about free choice. For today, the elderly have a free choice in relation to choosing the municipal home care, but also the private one, and there one might have such a feeling that the government would more or less like to get rid of the private, the very free choice. So it's really nice. But I would like to ask you about the rock map scheme when you talk about free choice. Does the rapporteur recognise that precisely the cutting-card system allows the elderly to have a free choice? That was one thing. Then I would still like to remind the rapporteur of this article that DF and SF in a new pact require one billion more for the elderly. So the rapporteur can tell us what the SF went into the government's financial law negotiations with.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213135419	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213135423	SF went this time to finance negotiations with a priority that was very much about children and about climate. However, this does not mean that the SF does not also have many other priorities in the financial law negotiations. I think the rapporteur himself knows that. Perhaps I would like to say at the outset that the pact for 1 billion. kr. the care of the elderly is at stake, but there are very, very many areas that need to be addressed. It is a fact that we lack adults in the day care institutions, that we lack staff in the care of the elderly, that we lack staff in the psychiatry, and that we have had a health service where the staff over the summer have had a real difficulty in getting the ends together. So there are just some places where we need to prioritize resources so that we can have some peace and so that we can also get on with the task, and it may well be that we have to solve the tasks in a different way in the future. I will not deny that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213135521	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213135524	The rapporteur says that we had then means that the rapporteur thinks that we have excellent health care now? Then, of course, I would like to thank you for your cooperation in this area, because it is important that we stop the government from giving priority to this area precisely in order to ensure that elderly people are treated with dignity and can safely go to an old age. And the President gets up before the clock is ticked out, but okay.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213135558	The President is standing up because the speaking time has been exhausted and I think everyone appreciates that the speaking time is being respected. This is the time of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213135605	Thank you. Had and did. But that is what the government has given priority to, specifically budgets for the regions and for the municipalities, in order to try to patch up some of these gaps that are under way, and I would also like to thank the rapporteur very much for his cooperation. I hope we can continue to do so. We have a joint mission.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213135629	Thank you. I would just like to remind you that you have 1 minute for the first question and 1 minute to answer it and only 1⁄2 minute to the second one; 1⁄2 minute lasts 1⁄2 minute. That's the way it is. The next question is Mr. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213135652	I just want to know whether the rapporteur can confirm that if it was not contrary to all the laws of the universe, then the demographic feature could be met by raising productivity.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213135702	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213135721	I heard it as "possession," and sometimes the policy of the Liberal Alliance can be confused with that. Of course, raising productivity can be achieved if there is something to raise. I also believe very well that resources in the public sector could also be released in the private sector for its sake, so that more resources could be spent directly on the task that is actually intended to be solved. That's how I think it's done. I do not wish to deny that there could also be room for some other types of structure to be created, i.e. to reorganise the way in which tasks are carried out, to remove some bureaucratic elements in the way in which public administration has been organised. You just can't do that overnight, and nothing has happened in the last four years. We also need to try to correct the gaps that are really out there right now, both in care for the elderly and in health care.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213135818	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213135822	The second question I have to ask is perhaps just as crazy in SF's ears, but I am trying: if citizens were free to choose between offers where they knew the quality themselves, is it not right that we could avoid sitting here?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213135835	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213135838	Yeah, if that's the way it was an option. But if it was me and I suddenly needed emergency care, let's say I got sick, then in relation to the welfare society that I'm part of, I have an expectation that where I'm addressing, I'm actually getting the very best quality from the start, and that I'm not going to the internet first to search where there might be a doctor who understands exactly that or that issue. That would be a prerequisite for being able to do what the rapporteur envisages here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213135913	The next question is Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213135917	Thank you. •DF and SF in new pact: Requires one billion more for older people than Løkke lays up for. This is from an article from May 2019. SF has gone to the polls on wanting to give another billion. I would actually like to acknowledge that the rapporteur is so skinny in putting it forward and saying that we did not go to financial law negotiations at all with a desire for priority in the area of the elderly. In the rapporteur's own words, the SF has given priority to children and climate. At least it was very, very honest to say to all the voters who had to read this article: unfortunately, friends, we wouldn't do that anyway. We changed our mind over the election campaign. The rapporteur mentions a number of areas that you would like to strengthen: lonely, relatives, self-helpers for the elderly. I think that is very good, but how will that priority be achieved when funds are not earmarked?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213140019	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213140020	I think that a great many of these priorities are also priorities that you really want to work with in the municipalities. So the first step on the way to actually doing these things in everyday life is that there are enough staff from the start, because it is quite normal regular care for the elderly that there is time to do the things I mention. If there is no time, help is reduced to getting help to go to the bathroom or to get dressed or to get some food, and then you have to find out for yourself how to last the rest of the day. And that is a consequence of denouncing the care of the elderly as much as you have done. Yeah, I'd like to be very honest. In other words, there have been a great many priorities both on the part of the new government and also on the part of the support parties in relation to this financial law, which is why it is of course also a priority when it comes to bringing the ends together. In fact, I think that we have succeeded in bringing together a financial law that meets a great many areas. Some lumps have been grabbed and succeeded in doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213140124	Thank you! That is Mrs Jane Heitmann on another point. Kirsten Normann Andersen I'll just take the rest of the answer later).
ParlaMint-DK_20191213140126	At any rate, it became clear to everyone that it was not a billion for the elderly; it became a small financial law, a small pool of 125 million which a number of municipalities could seek to participate in. That is what could be agreed between the SF and the other red parties. But let me ask you one initiative that the rapporteur mentioned: all elderly people must have their own helper. After all, a municipal agreement has now been drawn up to EUR 1.7 billion, as the rapporteur himself has pointed out. When do all older people have their own helper?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213140201	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213140203	They could, in principle, have had it a long time ago if it were the case that we had adopted a similar proposal during the last parliamentary term; but we have to ensure that the municipalities have a calm on their budgets if that is the case that they should have the opportunity to prioritise permanent teams so that they can also offer the individual citizen their own helper. Then I would like to stress that it is not the case that it is just a small budget law. It is not the case that we have not given priority to care for the elderly. The municipalities are given priority of 1.7 billion. kr. In the agreement with the municipalities, this has ensured that the demographic pressure has been well taken into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213140242	The next question is Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213140246	Thank you. I would like to ask about the SF's position on savings on basic core welfare, for example. in the municipalities. For in here in the Parliamentary Hall, SF is opposed to saving there, but SF in the municipalities supports social democratic governments through an edge and supports year after year budgets, where savings are required in the individual day care institutions and in the individual nursing homes, so that the politicians in the municipalities can gather into piles. That is to say, you take the money from the extreme link and put it in centrally. What is SF's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213140323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213140324	I do not think it can be said so unequivocally that this is the way the municipalities do. In fact, I believe that the municipalities are as different as the number of municipalities. But I would like to say that in SF we do not have a desire to spend a single penny more than is actually needed. I do not wish to deny that the money could have been used differently. There are some historical explanations for this. There was a municipal reform and priority was given to health in a way that has also created some bureaucratic links that could have been looked at. Of course, money needs to be spent wisely, and I have no problems with savings if that makes sense. On the other hand, I would also very much like to ensure that we give priority to core welfare. Frankly, we need to do something about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213140413	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213140414	Now it happened here in 2014 under the previous government, which SF also supported from here on the part of the Parliament Hall, namely that it chose to do so in Aarhus Municipality, where I come from, and where SF also supported it. At the same time, there was a call for a change of priorities, which also moved the money around. It wasn't because the money just disappeared. So I miss continuity in this. Are we only opposed to efficiency when it is done by the bourgeois side, or are we also in favour of constant efficiency in the municipalities? For the money that has been given in the financial law negotiations, there is no guarantee of going out to teachers. There's no guarantee they're going to the kindergarten. They may just as well end up in the municipal treasury and be spent on other things.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213140453	Thank you to the rapporteur. That is the rapporteur's answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213140454	That's right. That is also why we have ended up in a situation where we think we have had to demand minimum standards, because that is also a priority for local conditions. So, of course, there will also be some political priorities where it is said that this is something we would really like to have. Let me just say that the re-priority contribution was really just such a carousel, where money was flown around in a centrifuge without anyone really being able to catch it again. This was one of the most bureaucratic things I have ever seen in relation to budgetary measures.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213140529	Thank you to the rapporteur for the SF. The questions have been answered, and then the next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peder Hvelplund, who comes from the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213140537	Thank you for that, President. Only in the year that is now coming to an end did VIVE, the National Research and Analysis Centre for Welfare, come up with a frightening report on home care conditions. More specifically, it is the home help that the weakest elderly receive. The figures spoke their own clear language, almost half of the weak elderly today receive no help, either from family, home help, friends or privately bought help. In 2007 it was one in three who did not receive help. Weak elderly people are older people who themselves consider that they cannot perform one or more work without help, e.g. to go outdoors, put on clothes or take a shower. Even among the very weakest elderly people who need help for more than an everyday task, many are not receiving help. Developments appear to be due solely to the fact that much fewer people today receive home help for practical tasks. The number of disadvantaged elderly people receiving practical assistance has fallen from 43% in recent years. 25%. Even when you clean the figures for the effects of rehabilitation and anyone who has a spouse to help, the decrease has been marked: from 36%. 25%. Among the most debilitated elderly, the proportion that has to fend for itself without help has risen from 17 per cent. at 29%. For the last 10 years. This is a direct consequence of several years of reduction policy, where municipalities have not been provided with sufficient funds for the increasing number of elderly. This has meant cuts that have dramatic consequences for older citizens and their relatives. It is important to stress that it is not because our city council is populated with evil people who rise up every morning with the desire to reduce the conditions for their elderly citizens and their relatives, it is because we have not provided sufficient funds. Among other things, it has. This meant that we have experienced municipalities that have considered cutting down on cleaning, so that only cleaning is offered every five weeks. Every five weeks! That is the consequence of years of what is called responsible economic policy. I just have to ask, Responsible for who? The consequence is clear, an imminent risk that we will have an elderly care that is divided into an A and B team, where those who can afford can buy themselves for extra help, where those who have resourceful relatives can draw on help while those who do not have are left to themselves. 73,000 poor elderly people do not receive help from the public or from others. They are left to themselves, although they indicate that they clearly need help. This is the consequence of several years of starvation of care for the elderly. Therefore, it is also positive that the understanding paper stated that welfare expenditure should at least follow demographic trends. This meant an economic agreement that gave the largest economic boost to the municipalities in the last 10 years. It is not an agreement that solves all problems, but which is the first step towards a more dignified care for the elderly. It is an economic agreement that helps to secure a bottom under welfare. The Enhedslisten will continue to work to ensure a genuine welfare boost, including in the care of the elderly, and therefore we will continue to work to ensure minimum rights for the elderly, for social care to be written into the Services Act, for a national family strategy and for a strengthened effort to ensure better living and living opportunities for the elderly, including the elderly in nursing homes. At the same time, we have an important task in maintaining and attracting staff by ensuring good pay and employment conditions for our dedicated employees, the welfare heroes who deliver a great effort in the elderly, which also works very well in many places. But we still have a way to go. Together with the government, we have taken the first small but important steps towards providing care for the elderly, where anyone who has a legitimate need for help can get it. We look forward to continuing the work and, in particular, to focusing on reducing inequality, it is our clear expectation that we can also improve conditions for the elderly, especially the weakest elderly. It should be a of course. That is why I would like to say that the Enhedslisten can also support the proposal for adoption which the Socialist rapporteur previously read out.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213140952	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. First from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213140958	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I am just surprised that Enhedslisten speaks so warmly about how many things you have to do in the area of the elderly when you have not given it any more priority in the Finance Act. And when you talk about this local government agreement that it is so good and that we can now at least ensure that you get better care for the elderly, I can only say that that is not what is happening. In other words, what is happening is saving on the cutting-card schemes. What is happening is that several municipalities have just made a number of budget agreements. So why is it that this is not what is happening in this economic agreement, which everyone boasts a lot about? I mean, there's not gonna be what was wanted when you made this financial agreement. How will Enhedslisten ensure that funds go to the elderly? Because it is also a matter of priority in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213141057	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213141058	Well, I would like to say that I am not bragging about this economic agreement. I note that this economic agreement precisely covers the demographic features. We have in no way ensured that all the problems have been solved with this economic agreement, but for the first time in several years at least so long ago, I remember we are making an economic agreement that actually covers the demographic trait and thus actually recognises that the municipalities are in a situation where there are more elderly people and there are more children and where we recognise that the funds must, of course, keep up, so there is the same amount per elderly person. The money spent per elderly person has been decreasing over the past many years, and there is just what I am saying: the prerequisite for ensuring proper care for the elderly is the bottom we have to put in. When it is there, we can gradually start building upstairs, and that is the task of Enhedslisten in the future, namely to ensure that we do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213141155	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213141156	It can still be seen that Enhedslisten did not go to elections on extra money earmarked for the elderly in the Financial Law Agreement. What is happening at the moment is that, despite an economic agreement, savings are being made, where everyone on the part of the government boasts that a decent care for the elderly is now under control. I just want to say that the Danish People's Party has fought for the elderly area every year on the Finance Act. What did Enhedslisten bring to the elderly area of the Finance Act this time?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213141231	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213141232	I think it is just necessary to recognise that when we have such an important area as the area of the elderly, it is not just a matter of making an amount of money on the budget every time. It is also about ensuring the basic rye bread work, and it is about ensuring that there is an economy in the municipalities to take care of the area. That's what we've prioritized this time. That is why we have fought hard in the paper of understanding to write in that the cost of welfare must follow the demographic trait, because we cannot continue to undermine municipal welfare, and we will do so if the money does not go with demography.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213141301	The next question is Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213141304	Thank you. There is no doubt that I love figures, and now the rapporteur himself brings it up about cleaning every three or five weeks, and I assume that it is the municipality of Assen to which reference is made. Let me just point out that it was 4 million. kr., you should find in Assens Municipality for this. In the municipality of Assen there is a total budget of 2.7 billion. kr., which means that 0.1 per cent should be found. Then you can say that you can't find it. But I was looking at Assen's municipality's accounts, and it turns out that during that period, from 2016 to 2018, the cost of central administration and management has been increased with what overall amounts to 282 DKK. per citizen. That's 11.5 million. kr., with which the cost of central administration and management has been increased. This means that if you had only halved it and had had half the cost of central administration and management in just the last two years, you could have found the money for this cleaning. But you wouldn't do that in Assens Kommune, no, you'd rather spend the money on central administration and management, and yes, then the money was missing for cleaning. So if you had spent less on central government and management, the money would have been there. So you have to be careful with this story that it's just about more money, because it didn't in Assen's municipality's case.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213141410	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213141411	I can only call on Mr. Knox to do so. Lars Boje Mathiesen to move down to Assens and then run for the municipal elections down there, because if it is so obvious easy to solve such problems, then we must hope that there are some wise people in Assens who are running for the city council and thus can help solve it as simply as Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen is setting up. I know the reality from my own municipality. I do not sit on the city council, but I know how priorities are going on there too, and there are also stupid priorities being made, and that is sometimes the case here in the Folketing. But the truth from which we cannot escape is that when there are more elderly people, there will also be greater pressure on the care of the elderly. When VIVE makes such a report here, which shows how the development has been in recent years in the area of care for the elderly, also in relation to the most weakened elderly, it is the expression that it is a development that is happening out in reality, and it is not only because there are stupid politicians. It is also simply because funds have not been used to recruit staff to care for the weakened elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213141507	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213141507-2	One of the advantages of my coming to the Danish Parliament is that I can now come after the municipalities, not only Aarhus, but everywhere in Denmark, and I enjoy that. And the fact is now one fact, and when you let the cost rise from DKK 5.524. to DKK 5.805, this is a marked increase in the cost of central administration and management. It's the municipality's own figures. It's not like I'm making it up. The municipality confirms that more money has been spent on central administration and management during that period. And, yes, it is clear, because the money can only be used once, that then you don't have it for cleaning. But these are political priorities which have taken place outside the local authority.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213141541	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213141541-2	But it is merely a simplification to claim that the problems of care for the elderly in relation to the increasing number of elderly can be dealt with by administering them away. For years we have had a regime in which we have had both re-priority contributions, where we have had productivity requirements and where we have gradually demanded that more be provided for the same funds. The Enhedslisten has never supported this, and we have also voted against it every time, and we have also asked questions about it. I should just like to say that if you continue with that regime, it is clear to see where it brings us to it brings us in a situation where care for the elderly is under pressure, where our health care is under pressure and where it affects care for the elderly and where it affects patient safety and the working environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213141622	The next question is Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213141625	When I was a child, a color television cost about DKK 8,000. And now it costs about 2,000 kroner. Does this mean that a colour television today is only a quarter as good as a colour television was when I was a child?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213141639	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213141640	No, but a color television is something other than a human being. It is not the case that people have generally become a quarter easier to look after over the last ten years. This has something to do with technology. This is about having to go out and deliver a relational treatment. You can't just save it. I don't know how you want to make a productivity requirement on a relationship, how you want to ensure that technological development makes a relationship arise four times easier today than it did 10 years ago. The world isn't that simple. When it comes to people and when it comes to caring, it's not just something we can cut down that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213141723	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213141724	No, the price does not say anything about quality, and of course it does not say anything about the public sector either. In Ikast-Brande Municipality, the Dutch Buurtzorg model for elderly people is now being tried. It's more expensive per person. hour, but it is overall cheaper because it is just much better and much more productive. Is this a road that Enhedslisten could imagine you could walk?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213141745	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213141745-2	Well, I can at least say that Mr. Henrik Dahl is absolutely right when he says that price and quality are not linked. Because in relation to the truly unique and dedicated effort of our sosu helpers around the municipalities, they are not rewarded at all by profit. They get a low salary compared to what they deliver. And then it is quite clear that if we are to look at how to ensure better care for the elderly, then it is also about being able to attract and maintain skilled staff. And it acts among other things. to ensure better pay and working conditions, and there we are completely open to looking at what models make it possible for us to ensure that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213141818	The next question is Mr. Per Larsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213141821	Thank you. And thank you for an excellent speech to Mr. Peder Hvelplund, rapporteur. I know you're not resistant to facts. We live in the same municipality. You have also put a lot of emphasis in this adoption text that you have made together and joined, on these 1.7 billion that have been added to the municipalities. You write here that it covers demographic development as a minimum, and core welfare is lifted so that municipalities can prioritize a real increase in the care of the elderly. For example, in our municipality, and indeed in many municipalities, it has actually been necessary, because the economy is simply so tight, to reduce the budget in the area of elderly care for 2020. Can the rapporteur confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213141921	I would remind the questioner that direct indictment in the Folketing is not possible, but the rapporteur has the opportunity to answer the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213141929	Thank you. Then I will respond immediately to Mr. Per Larsen's question. In fact, I do not believe that the rapporteur is right in saying that the area of the elderly is being cut in the new budget, but I am not going to reject that. In any case, I would agree with the questioner that the economic agreement that has been reached here does not solve the problems in the municipalities in the first place. Nor does it mean that there are no municipalities which make cuts budgets. This is among other things. That is why we have to start looking at the compensatory reform here after New Year, because there are still great disparities between municipalities. What is my point in relation to what is Enhedslisten's point is that if it is the case that we have to ensure that the municipalities have the opportunity to solve the problem with the increasing number of older people, then it is also necessary that funds be provided from central government, that is, through the economic agreements, to ensure that the same number of funds can remain available per year. Some older people also increase their numbers of older people.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213142026	Sir. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213142028	Thank you. I can therefore agree with the rapporteur that we also have a problem of compensation, which means that there are challenges which are completely incalculable for some municipalities around the country and which are, of course, pushing for welfare all around. It's beyond question the way the country is.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213142052	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213142052-2	Yes, and that is why I am also looking forward to having a new agreement on compensation, because it is quite right, as the rapporteur also points out, that this leads to a distortion in which there are municipalities which are experiencing that they will actually have to raise the tax at the same time as welfare falls. It is clear that this is something that we need to look at also in the context of compensatory reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213142115	There are no more questions for the rapporteur. Thank you to the rapporteur from the Enhedslisten. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Per Larsen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213142135	Thank you. I want to start from the real point of view. The reality is that in the run-up to the elections we had this spring, there was actually an election campaign for a very, very long time. Now I come from North Jutland, and it was the case that there was welfare first in almost every bush in the whole region for at least a year, as I remember it. And that, of course, gave a certain amount of pressure of expectation over what the citizens got the impression would happen. Facts are now, after all, where agreements have been made with the regions and agreements with the municipalities, and where a financial agreement has also been concluded, that there is tremendous pressure that is not covered when you look around. After all, I am on the Regional Council of North Jutland, and on Monday we had the hospital managers inside. It was the case that the Nordjylland Region attracted 134 million. kr. under the agreement concluded between the Danish Regions and the Government. Once that money has been distributed, it is the case that our large hospital, Aalborg University Hospital, is missing in the vicinity of 77 million. DKr, as they have had to reduce budgets with • quite strong reductions, which also means that they are out to lay off staff and come to this in the near future. Similarly, our regional hospital is based in Hjørring. There was also a shortfall in the vicinity of 40 million. kr. which they have to have to reduce their budgets by, which means that they have to dismiss staff. And as recently as this morning there has been a long interview with the Vice-President of the Main Committee, the shop steward at the Regional Hospital North Jutland, who is very concerned about development. Compared to the municipality in which I live, namely the municipality of Hjørring, we are also aware that it has been necessary to reduce in the area of health, the elderly and the disabled by a substantial amount of millions, which of course means that they will have to tighten even more. I have also just read this morning that the municipality of Læsø has been in the Ministry of the Interior because they simply have a huge challenge to make the economy stick together. They're gonna be missing 10-12 million. kr., and that's a lot of money for such a small island as Læsø. They were then over at the Social and Interior Minister Astrid Krag here today and were then sent home with the opportunity to borrow some money. And that is quite right here and now, but it is the case with money that is borrowed that some people have to pay back. So that's a poor deadline. So we have some major, major challenges out there in reality, where the people are; out there, where the core welfare is achieved; out by all the citizens. There are some major economic challenges that I imagine the people prior to the elections might have got the impression that they would look less like them and be less violent. It is tight and therefore, of course, something important needs to be done to ensure that we can maintain proper care for the elderly and a safe old age for the elderly. After all, there are such things that can be used and that do not cost a whole lot. After all, there have been proposals here from the platform this morning. I am thinking of such things as electronic surveillance of the elderly. I think we should ensure that people in their old age have the opportunity to opt for electronic surveillance if it is the case that, at some point, you get into a situation where you become demented and cannot take care of yourself to the same extent as you have been able to do in the past. We must therefore ensure that we ourselves decide whether, when you get older, I would like to have some sort of surveillance myself, so that you do not risk coming from days of drowning or dying from frost and cold or other things that we sometimes see. I also think that there are some exciting steps in relation to the creation of a free-care home. One of the things that can help strengthen local communities is that there is also increased activity there. A former rapporteur mentioned this here with voluntary care for the elderly and care for the elderly. There may also be some activity opportunities in relation to smaller nursing homes. Similarly, there are also opportunities in terms of home care, where we must also ensure that synergies are created in relation to new opportunities. So, overall, when we disregard the money, which is far short of it, the forces must be released and creativity released, so that we get some synergy and secure the elderly a secure old age. And then, on behalf of both the Conservative People's Party and on behalf of the Left, I would say that we support, of course, the proposal for adoption which has been tabled together with the Danish People's Party and the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213142654	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. And there is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213142703	Thank you. In other words, in addition to hearing that the rapporteur agrees that it can be difficult to fill up the backlog in both hospitals and in the care of the elderly in the municipalities, I still have doubts as to what the rapporteur himself thinks in relation to the care of the elderly as such. Does the rapporteur not agree that the 1.7 billion? kr., which is allocated to the municipalities, at least covers the demographic trait, so that you can at least keep up with developments in the municipalities, as more and more elderly people need care for the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213142740	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213142741	After all, the priorities have now been laid out to the municipalities, and this means that the municipalities must translate the funds allocated to the whole area, the whole of the municipal sector. After all, there are different priorities, and it is not the case that we can be sure that exactly the demographic pressure in the area of the elderly will also be covered. Because it's a municipal responsibility. So in some municipalities there may be an opportunity to cover it up and will to do so. But elsewhere it may be more so as that, because you may have other areas that are pushing more.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213142822	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213142823	I can also ask in another way. Does the rapporteur agree that over the last four years there have been no budgets in the municipalities which ensured that the demographic trend could be followed? After all, this Finance Act has made that right.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213142842	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213142843	Once again, the agreements made over the years have been implemented in the municipalities, and some municipalities will certainly have covered it so that they have had the same level. In other places they will have had other challenges, for which some of the funds may have been used, and that is why it has not been covered. Therefore, we also see differences in the elderly care that you see around the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213142908	The next question is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213142911	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. What I just overwhelmed was what the rapporteur said about opting for technology and how one would like to be treated when one gets older. I think that we are also talking about power here, the use of force when the rapporteur talks about technologies. But I would just like to say that we have adopted it, that as a citizen today you can make a treatment testament so that you can renounce life-long treatment, and you can also write down your wishes in relation to power, or if you become demented or otherwise. But does the rapporteur, for the rapporteur, mention that it is not enough with the treatment testament and the life testament that you can go into health.dk and make today?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213143000	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213143001	Now I haven't been inside myself to see how exactly it's designed. But I just feel that power covers widely, and in my optics it is not power, if it is the case that you ask for some kind of electronic surveillance if you become demented. I am not going to regard it as such, whereas there may be other things which will be regarded as a form of use of force and which will then also have to be recorded as such.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213143033	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213143034	My question to the rapporteur is whether the rapporteur believes that there are currently barriers to achieving what the rapporteur wants, namely that one should be able to say oneself that one would like to have a bracelet if one is demented or otherwise. Does the rapporteur think that there are barriers to doing so today, or how?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213143058	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213143059	Like I said, I haven't just checked in, and it might be that I should. But the short part of it is just that I think it would be appropriate if it were possible to do so before you get older and perhaps become demented and cannot take care of yourself to the same extent as you can when you are healthy and healthy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213143126	The next question is Mrs Birgitte Vind, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213143128	Thank you for that and I would very much like to thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I can feel a warm conservative heart burning for the elderly right up in Hjørring, and it's really nice to feel. That's just so good to know. What I was also concerned with today was that I can of course hear that the rapporteur recognises that it is really ill and has been slow for a very long time in the municipal landscape. So I just want to know if the rapporteur can confirm that the 1.7 billion. kr., which the current government with the support parties has now set aside, will be a real increase in the ability of the municipalities to lift the care of the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213143203	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213143203-2	Unfortunately, I am not sure that this is a real boost in all municipalities. Because, as I said earlier, it is a question of how priority has been given to local authorities. After all, there are plenty of challenges in the municipalities, depending on how they are now organised. We see, of course, that there are municipalities which actually make budgets with large surpluses, and we also have municipalities which really have major problems in making the economy work together. I myself mentioned here at the start Læsø Municipality, which has now been granted a derogation to borrow a large amount of millions, so that they can make their operations coherent, and it is of course unsustainable in the long run.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213143247	Mrs. Birgitte Wind.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213143248	I would also like to hear from the rapporteur whether this is the rapporteur's intention, as well as making stricter demands on local self-government. So, do we have to tighten up municipal autonomy so that the municipalities decide less? Is that what the rapporteur is suggesting?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213143305	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213143313	No, I am certainly in favour of the Conservative People's Party and that makes it a high degree of municipal autonomy. So there is no need to tighten up there. Because there is no doubt that when you are out where things are going, you have the absolute best condition for prioritising. And there we have local democracy with local politicians who can make such decisions. So that is certainly not what has been proposed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213143331	The next question is Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213143334	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for the speech. Now it was just because the rapporteur mentioned it here in the speech, and we also had a debate on it earlier. Now I have just gone to look at the budget for the municipality of Hjørring, and there are actually no savings in the area of health or disability this year. On the contrary, it covers exactly the rising costs, and then I can inform the rapporteur about this and it may be that some of the colleagues from the New Civil and Liberal Alliance are pleased that the only place that is savings in the budget in Hjørring Municipality this year is actually on administration, where you are in to see if you can find 15 million. kr. in terms of savings and efficiency.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213143413	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213143414	It's good for the elderly, if that's what you've promised. My reasoning is based on a newspaper article which I saw a few months ago, when the budget was drawn up, that one simply had to go through a saving exercise so that the budget was balanced. At any rate, I noticed that there were savings for a larger amount of millions, which were reduced.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213143450	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213143451	[Sound emission]... and I think the rapporteur is absolutely right about that. These are some of the savings that have been made in the past, and therefore come from the previous budget years, when there has just been insufficient funds, and it is clear that some of the budget savings that were adopted at that time go into some of the following financial years, and it is only in the context of the new budget that we have not succeeded in adopting new savings. But it is clear that all the old savings cannot be rolled back, so that is one of the things we hope for through future municipal agreements we can ensure a general boost.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213143523	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213143524	But it is clear that they will be happy out in the municipalities if it is the case that there is a real boost, so that they can provide better care for the elderly, just as in many other areas, of course, they will also be able to raise welfare. Clearly there are plenty of local politicians who want to do that, because they are just out there in the real world and know where the shoe prints.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213143548	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. The next rapporteur is from the alternative, and that is Mrs Susanne Zimmer. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213143613	Thank you. In relation to loneliness it is a significant thing for our quality of life, and it is the case that there are 270,000 people in Denmark who feel lonely, and there are actually 2 a day who die because of loneliness. Of the 270,000, 50,000 people are older, and in the alternative we want to do better. That is why one of our proposals is that we work more with generation houses. We need to be more together across age, and we do not benefit from the fragmentation that exists in our lives between age groups. We can take that into account in several ways. One of the things we could do was look at general housing. There are already many general housing buildings with different dwellings, so you can stay there, whether you are a student or a large family for children or the elderly. There we could see that it would be a good thing at least to call for the creation of common areas in this area, among other things. with kitchens so you can eat together. Another thing that is good experience with in some municipalities is that you extend the nursing homes to accommodate dorms and the young students get a discount on the rent by spending some time with the elderly. Other good examples are that you build kindergartens close to or with the nursing homes, so that you can work together across the generations to the great pleasure of both the children and the elderly. In relation to the nursing homes, after this great efficiency wave, we have had a dehumanisation, which means that we have now come to the point where we are serving the dinner on plates because it has to be done quickly, but some good initiatives have actually been taken in some nursing homes, which means that instead of making those meals we begin to do it in such a way that the elderly can eat with each other in turn, so that some cozy eating situations arise and that cultural change can probably spread. This could lead to the elderly not needing so much help because in this way they become more self-propelled, as the aid becomes more differentiated. For these things, we are really happy that our Finance Act has provided us with a pool for new and innovative roads and partnerships so that we can support the municipalities with these experimental projects. Another thing is that in Aarhus you have entered into a partnership between a company with psychologists and the municipality of Aarhus, where you have set up a centre for quality of life, where elderly people can first get psychological conversations at nursing homes if they are in a crisis situation, for example. if they have lost a spouse. On the way, it is intended to be extended to older citizens who are not in nursing homes. In general, we would like to give very strong support to debureaucratisation, so that we can do the things that make sense for the residents you have at the nursing home, for example. not that, if you go for a seven-minute walk with an elderly resident every Thursday afternoon, you need to spend much longer to prove that you have done so. So a debureaucratisation could be a great joy for the elderly, but also for the employees, so that it could become more attractive for a sosu assistant to look for work in a nursing home. We support the statement that has been read out by the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213144009	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Alternative. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens, and that is Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213144021	It is almost sad that the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten is not here now, because then I could have just made a point to him and asked him when he was talking about the fact that in Hjørring the cost of administration had been spared if you didn't save on these basic things. What the rapporteur from the Enhedslisten does not say is that at the same time the tax has been raised in Hjørring. It is clear that if you simply take more money out of the pockets of the citizens, it is not so difficult to deliver more in the municipal treasury. That is the way it is, and there is a difference between that and so I doubt that the Liberal Alliance or the New Citizens could have supported raising the tax. Well, we think we can find the means in other ways. When we get to this thing about strengthening the safety of the elderly, i.e. this with a safe life, there are a whole host of elements that are part of it. Basically, we have created a society where, as a citizen, one is deeply dependent on the welfare state throughout all stages of life, and when one creates such a society, one also leaves incredibly much power to politicians. I think, when I look at the area of the elderly, that the elderly have become some pieces in a political power game year after year. And, of course, the best way to get to grips with it is to ensure that people have much greater freedom and responsibility, both economically and humanly, to make the choices that they think are right. It also means that when they come to the last part of their lives, they have had an opportunity to have created a freedom and an economic freedom to organise their lives as they seem to make sense. That is what we in the New Citizens think we as a society should aim for on the long stretch. Then, of course, we have some immediate challenges that we are facing at the moment, and there we believe that the interaction mechanism, about how you are set off at this time, is one of the things that really hurt the elderly. When we talk about security here, many of the rapporteurs who have been on have talked about nursing homes, service levels and such things, and these are also extremely important things, but some of what fills up when I talk to older people is whether they have a security and security in terms of what they have in crowns and ears every month, but also over the year, and what they have in the prospect of having, i.e. what standard of living they can have for the rest of their lives. There I think we have a need for too and it is a shared responsibility across all parties to create security and security, so that we do not use this area in every election campaign to promise one thing and the other, because it creates an insecurity out there for the elderly so that they do not know what they have to do well with. So we have to somehow get the economy going, and I hope that this is something we can do across party security, so that they know what they've been doing in the future. Then we have the question of the means, in other words how the funds are to be used, and the politics of the new citizens are clear. We believe that the funds should go directly to the individual nursing homes, in other words right past the municipalities, and this is not the same as shutting down the municipalities and we do not want municipal autonomy. But we simply believe that there are too many links between where the money comes from and those who know how to manage it, and so it is completely out in the individual nursing homes. So we want to remove those links, and that does not mean that the municipalities cannot still have an obligation to keep an eye on these actors who are out there and make sure that they deliver what they have to do. We will see that if we give greater freedom to the individual care centres and the people who are out there, and the boards there are, the family boards there are, we will be able to lift this area and create one in my optics much more flexible and much better care for the elderly. So there are a large number of areas where we could do better for the elderly. The last point I would like to address is perhaps one that sometimes separates inside the Folketing. In fact, I do not always understand why the removal and reduction of taxes must separate us, because if you lower and remove taxes, it usually always has the social arrow down, and it certainly does when we talk about older people; it can, for example, be done. be water taxes. Now I have been on the board of Aarhus Vand, where an annual fee of DKK 500 was introduced together with Aarhus Municipality. Just like that bum. It should not be said that it does not matter, but it does not matter as much to those in the large houses located in Risskov because it is a tax on the matrimony as it means for the pensioner who lives in an elderly home. So that's where we have to think this whole system through and look at these excise duties. So when electricity tax is paid and water tax is paid, it is much harder for a pensioner who does not get more money and has no opportunity to increase his income and income. So we must not raise these charges; we must therefore keep them calm so that they know what they have to do well with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213144518	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, and the first one is from Mr Seligman. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213144523	Thank you. It was just to draw the rapporteur's attention to the fact that not necessarily out of my mind, which is why I could of course hear what the rapporteur said in his speech. It is quite right that we have decided to set up the tax in the municipality of Hjørring, but not as much as we would like, because it is not allowed because of the budget law. Therefore, it has become a tax increase of 0.2 per cent, although it was actually sought to increase it by 0.8%. And when you do, it is because you are subject to an economic regime that does, both because of demographic development and because of the compensatory reform, that there is no possibility of getting the money in any other way than by raising the tax, which you cannot even do. This is precisely the challenge faced in many outskirts municipalities, where there is at least a smaller relocation, while the number of elderly people is increasing. After all, there are many municipalities that have this challenge, and I just have to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not recognise that the ageing of the population will mean that we will have to devote more money. Or does the rapporteur think that everything can be done by debureaucraticising and making it simpler?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213144634	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213144634-2	No, absolutely not. It's logical that if you go from having 100 to suddenly having 1,000, it costs more. However, this does not mean that we have to follow demographic developments completely mechanically and should not allow room for different priorities in the municipalities. So you have over 253 billion. kr. a year. There is a possibility of changing priorities within those budgets. But I certainly agree that if there is a substantial increase in people, then there must also be more funding. And it is quite true that Hjørring Municipality was not allowed to raise the tax so much. It was 0.2% and, as far as I know, it paid 20 million. kr. extra. But then perhaps you could start looking at all the committee trips that the mayor is quite well known for spending a lot of money on up there, right?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213144712	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213144713	I should like to point out that I do not think this is a fair charge against the mayor of Hjørring. The mayor of Hjørring is not actually known for this, and there is in fact a very strict policy on what is being spent on committee trips, so I do not think that is a fair accusation to make. However, the demographic feature means precisely that when the number of elderly people increases, expenditure follows. No, that's not what it means) Yes, that's what the demographic trait means. This means that when there are more older people and if you have to have the same cost per person. This is what the demographic trait is all about. Then you can have the expanded demographic trait, where you also talk about the rise in prosperity on top of that. But what the demographic trait means is precisely that when there are more older people, expenditure increases accordingly, because there are more older people.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213144804	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213144805	What the demographic trait is is a mechanical projection of finance, so what you are saying is simply not correct. Then I would like to point out that if we are now looking at what the municipalities have spent the money on, then they have spent it on anything but basic core welfare. I have criticised the municipality of Hjørring, and I have also criticised the municipality of Aarhus and a large number of other municipalities for how they spend money on committee trips. I think they spend too much money, but it's not just that. It is also in a large number of other areas, and hopefully someone will ask me a question about it, because then I can explain which other areas it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213144835	The next question is Mrs Birgitte Vind, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213144837	At least now I learned something about the demographic trait. Now I have been on the Economic Affairs Committee in Vejle Municipality for 10 years, and there we have always figured it out in a different way. Well, apparently there's a difference between the municipalities. Thank you to the rapporteur. One in four weak elderly people over 70 does not get the help they need. It may be to bathe, it may be to put on clothes, it may be to shop. These are simply facts. It's not something I made up, it's facts. It is not something that has just arisen since we came to power. That's how it was a year ago, and it hasn't gotten any better. Then I understand that right now I am going out and lifting it with 1.7 billion. kr., you think is not the right way. You have to find the money in other ways. We can't run any stronger in public, I think everyone knows that. There are extremely many stress cases. We can't raise taxes. What is the rapporteur's view? What sort of grip should be taken if we are not to increase public funds? How are we supposed to help the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213144942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213144943	Oh, I always get so fond of that question. Let me just mention a few areas. Well, I don't have that much time here, yeah, I have 1 minute, so maybe I can make it. Let me just mention some areas. We spend over 11 billion. kr. to external consultants per year. That's one area. Then we spend over 20 billion. kr. to contribute to the European Union. Then we spend about 13 billion. kr. at the job centres, which do not give it very much value either. Then we have a deeply failed non-Western immigration, which costs over 33 billion. kr. a year. We're spending 4 billion. kr. on the Danish Radio. So, the examples are queuing, and there we can find the means. What have I found funds for now? 50 billion. kr.? Of course you can find them and reprioritize within the public sector. It's just a question of political will. And now I haven't even talked about what you do in the municipalities, because it's almost even worse. It should be remembered that those who have 252 billion. kr. to do good with, and they are not managed very well.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213145042	Mrs. Birgitte Wind.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213145043	I am not particularly surprised by the answer I get, I am sorry. Maybe I shouldn't have asked you that. However, I would like to ask: who does the rapporteur think should run stronger in the municipalities? I just can't see who's supposed to be running stronger? In other words, if we do not have to spend some of the money that the rapporteur is talking about here, who will have to run stronger?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213145105	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213145106	We're spending 4 billion. kr. We don't have to do that. Boom, you found the money there. If we cut the costs of external consultants, you've found the money there. Social democracy therefore said 3 billion. kr., but they've only found 800 million. kr. Then you have 2.2 billion. kr. extra there. Well, you can look at what they've done in the municipalities. From 2006-2016 it has been 58 percent. More academics out there. It's 170 percent. More reporters. It's 273 percent. several managers and external specialist consultants in the municipalities. In Aarhus Municipality, where I have been, we have more journalists employed than in the city newspaper. You can find the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213145143	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next question is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213145145	Thank you. The math with the reporters thinks I've been delivered at some point. That's the way it is sometimes. I was aware that the rapporteur said that what older people are concerned with is what they have in crowns and ears. I think there are some elderly people who are concerned about this too, namely whether they can afford everyday life. Some people don't have it easy. So I also believe that there are a great many elderly people who are worried that they will be able to get the help they actually need. I think that the rapporteur is making a complete leap in all the examples of where the money can be collected. If we cannot pick up the money by firing the employees out in DR, or whatever it is for any proposal, then there is also a kind of majority for somewhere, what does the rapporteur think is important for the elderly? Is it most important that we give priority to welfare so that we can be sure that we get the necessary help? Or should we not care because we could have just picked up the money somewhere else? Is this the kind of utopia that the rapporteur keeps putting forward here?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213145249	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213145250	Utopia? Politics is about priorities. Would SF prefer to give priority to external consultants rather than elderly care? Would the SF prefer to give funds to state television rather than help the elderly? I can ask SF about that. If you release funds in one place, you can use them in the other place. But when I talk about dignity and the care of the elderly that is going to be provided out there, the best way to make sure is precisely to remove all these layers of fat in the office on the way out with this money and to give the money directly to the place where they do the benefit very close to the citizen. It will create a huge gain and at the same time remove very much administration, trouble and belly. But it's about priorities. So SF must also look into the eyes and say that if you keep giving money to DR, you cannot give money to care for the elderly. Yeah, you can raise the tax, but it's also a utopia in my optics.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213145340	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213145341	Somewhere the money has to come from, I almost said. You take the money out of the DR, and the citizen needs to get the money out of his pocket somewhere else. By the way, they have to do so many times in advance. Older people also want to watch TV, older people also want to have experiences, and older people also want the needed help. More and more citizens have to have their own money out of their pockets in order to actually get the necessary help because user payments come in through the back door. So, regardless of all the examples of consultants, television and everything else, is it the rapporteur's view that we should simply not in any way give care to the elderly the necessary means until we have found out whether we can then rotate on the money afterwards? The emergency aid is first and then we have to discuss whether we can use the money differently afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213145436	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213145436-2	I never said that we should not spend money on basic core welfare and the elderly at all. However, we should just be aware that when the Socialist rapporteur says that one in four older people does not get the help they want is a product of the social democratic system that the SF has supported together with the parties that have been in power for the last 20-25 years. It is then because of the failure and failure of the system that the elderly do not have what they should have today. Surely we should not blame those of us who want to change the fact that they do not have what they should have. I have not been responsible for not having what they should have. Those who have been in power in this Parliament for the last 20 years. They are responsible for not having what they need.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213145513	Thank you to the rapporteur from the New Citizens' Party. I am responsible for trying to keep to the speaking time. That is how the questions have been answered. The next rapporteur comes from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Henrik Dahl. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213145532	Thank you for that and thank you for a very interesting debate. We need to talk about the money tree, because without the money tree red politics can't be done. The money tree stood bright green and juicy in May when there was an election campaign. Now we have come to the month of December when the Finance Act is to be adopted, and the money tree has actually lost the magazines. It is quite awful that we can clearly see that in the Finance Act with the relatively modest amounts specifically allocated to the elderly. That's the way it is with money trees. They have a year cycle, and there's never magazines on them here when the Finance Act is to be passed, and that's why it's obviously not so wise to rely on this money tree. You have to try to think differently. It is clear that the government has not pumped nearly as much money specifically into care for the elderly as could have been done with this money tree and which was promised during the election campaign, and this is also evident from the proposal for adoption which has already been read out and which we also support in the Liberal Alliance. However, I also believe that we need to have a little more discussion. Because it doesn't help to spend much money if you spend it wrong, and it's also necessary to talk about it. It is just the case that a bureaucratic system, such as our care for the elderly, feels the way all bureaucratic systems do, i.e. they cannot really produce services. Imagine if restaurants were run by bureaucracy. Then there would be a waiting list to come to the restaurant, and it would be different professional specialities to make starters, main course and dessert, and they would always be at war with each other about resources. That would be a terrible experience. Therefore, I do not think that we will get around, even if we are going to talk about how to get a safe old age, to discuss new models of care for the elderly, and there I think we might have to go on a study trip to Ikast-Brande Municipality at some point. After all, they have entered with a Dutch provider of elderly care called Buurtzorg, which has some very good results, i.e. a much higher satisfaction among the elderly. There is a higher hourly price • actually because it is nurses who stand for it, but they are then empowered to make a lot of decisions • but with lower total costs. That is very interesting, and we have to look at that because it is just not enough to look at the money if you use it incorrectly. I think we should also have some perspective on getting older. I've always thought it's not as much as a politician, but it's really more like a sociologist that it was strange that when you had a certain age, you should be understood in a certain way. The vast majority of older people are well and say themselves that they are well and they do not understand themselves as older people. They understand themselves as people with all the interests you can now have as a human being. I think we should remember that too. Two thirds of all men over the age of 85 think they're fine, and 60%. of all women over 85 years of age think they're fine. This is fantastic, and there has also been great economic progress. I think we might also need to look at this with the Danish Parliament's detailed management. Because I have been working in the field of education for many years and there is simply nothing better in the field of education than being regulated in detail by politicians, and I do not think that this has anything to do with education. In fact, I think it has something to do with the fact that detailed regulation by politicians is not a good idea. Perhaps this could be solved by having some freedom of choice, so that the individual elderly had to decide on the quality of their offer and it was not an offer that was retail regulated from in here. Because things often go wrong. Speaking time has been spent, but I also got what I wanted to say. So thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213145957	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213150001	Thank you. On some stretches, we can sort of agree. But I just have a little doubt about that money tree thing. I have had the impression of the last four years that it was the private money tree, which was juicy and lush with lots of tax cuts, and that we have inherited a public money tree which, frankly, is somewhat jealous and which needs to be cared for and cared for, so that we can correct some of the ill health problems again, and I do not really believe that the rapporteur is serious either when comparing the public sector with a poor public restaurant if it is the case that the public sector is transferred to the restaurant sector. I think, for example, that we can be proud of a well-functioning public health sector. On the other hand, I find it interesting to try to see if you can organise care for the elderly in other ways. But when we are out in the freedom of choice for the individual elderly and I have to choose between the most necessary tasks in relation to a normal everyday life, what on earth should I choose from?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213150111	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213150113	The defining feature of a welfare state is not that there is public production, but it is that there is free and equal access to certain core services, and if there is this free and equal access, it will, in my opinion, be a purely definitarian matter of dealing with a welfare state. Therefore, the discussion will then be how to produce the services to which there should be free and equal access, in the most appropriate way. It is just that bureaucracies, because of the way bureaucracies operate, are not very well able to produce services. It should be organised in a different way, where the person to benefit from the service is at the centre and where the needs of the person concerned are taken into account. However, the definition of a welfare state is free and equal access and not public production. I simply do not agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213150203	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213150205	Nor do I think that we should talk about the public sector as a production company. I think we should recognise that welfare is an expense that we are all helping to finance in order to succeed in doing things that simply cannot be made money from. We do this because we want to do it for each other, while the private market is driven by supply and demand and therefore also profit. However, the rapporteur does not answer whether, when we have cut to the bone in the care of the elderly that we have today, funds should not be provided so that an honest, quite poor care for the elderly can be put right, as we are holding it today.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213150242	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213150244	I mean seriously when I say that I think there are some organisational problems that you also have to dig into. We have the second highest tax burden in the OECD and we have the second largest public sector. It's a cross for the idea that you can't make it work. It is simply a cross for the idea that you can spend so much money and experience problems with it. Surely it must be possible to make it work, and so we must look at the organization.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213150315	The next question is Mr. Nils Sjøberg, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213150319	Thank you. I would like to take up where the SF's rapporteur left off, because I am a little surprised by the comparison between the restaurant and the way in which the government operates nursing homes or provides other help to the elderly. I would like to ask the question whether you can really put the two things up and compare them? I am of the opinion that the public service, the aid to the elderly, is something that we should give, and it must then cost what it costs, and it will certainly cost more for the next many years because we will have more elderly people and others who need help. And then at the same time, there's this idea that it's gonna be like it was in a restaurant. In other words, the rapporteur wants the individual elderly to pay for themselves, as if it were. In a restaurant?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213150405	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213150407	My teaching skills must have failed me because I tried to say that in a welfare state there is free and equal access to the services provided by the welfare state. Then there is a discussion about how to create service organisationally, and it is the discussion about how to create service organisationally that I take up. This is not the question of free and equal access. I am just saying that if you want to make a successful service, it cannot be made bureaucratic because bureaucracy puts itself at the centre. One has to put the user of service at the centre of the purely organisational organisation and a bureaucracy cannot find out.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213150454	Sir. Nils Sjøberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213150456	Thank you. I'd like to follow up on the free and equal access issue. We have a group of citizens among the elderly, because there is also inequality in old age, so how will the rapporteur actually ensure, and how can the rapporteur actually imagine that this should be done for the group which does not have the opportunity to do just that which does not have the economy to do so? We don't think anyone should pay for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213150519	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213150520	Well, actually, I don't understand the question. I mean, we're in the Liberal Alliance for us to have a welfare state. In a welfare state there is free and equal access to the benefits provided by the welfare state. I have not put that into discussion at all. We are probably agreed on that. There is just a discussion about how to organize the creation of the services that are needed. That is what the discussion is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213150550	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance. There are no more questions for the rapporteur. This brings us to the Minister for Health and the Elderly in the series of speeches.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213150607	Thank you very much, President. And thank you for today's debate. I have such a bad voice that I get Gajols from all sorts of nice colleagues, and I apologize again in advance. However, it is privileged to be allowed to sit in the square and listen to really good speeches and exciting questions and a good debate. So thank you all for your efforts. Basically, it's about how we create a safe and dignified old age for everyone from different points of view. And today's debate shows that we have come a long way and discussed some key challenges in the area of the elderly. And if I am to sum up today's debate, it must be said that all parties basically want the same thing, namely that we must all be able to face a secure old age. Where the water partes, of course, knows how to secure it. As I have pointed out, the government has chosen to set a new direction for the elderly area; a direction in which we are addressing a long-term reconstruction of welfare and in which we first of all ensure that the framework is in order so that the municipalities can keep up with when, fortunately, there are more elderly people. And that is what we have done with the agreement on the municipalities' economy for 2020, where the economy has risen by 1.7 billion. kr. compared to last year. And numbers are thankful when you look at what it used to be like and how it's been. 1.7 billion kr. In one year more than the last four years of municipal agreements are combined. On top of the economic agreement with the municipalities, we have reached an agreement on the implementation of the social, health and labour market reserve, in which, with the good help of all the parties to the agreement, we secured a follow-up to the dementia action plan. Finally, with the 2020 financial law agreement, we have tied the loop to the overall package of agreements, where, in addition to the economic agreements and the follow-up to the dementia action plan, we have also allocated permanent funds for more presence and care in the care of the elderly. And then it is that later in this parliamentary year, the Finance Minister will finally present a proposal for a welfare law aimed at ensuring that the demographic move is also covered in the coming years. Having said that, I think that the individual elderly and the individual employee at the nursing home or in home care care does not care whether the money comes from a financial agreement, whether they are earmarked or come with the block grant; as long as they come and are allowed to benefit the places where they should benefit, namely in our care for the elderly, and that is what they are doing. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213150920	Thank you, Minister. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213150926	Thank you. But the Elders Case writes here on December 3, 2019: The Finance Act fails the weakest elderly. "And on December 2, 2019: "Finansloven 2020: Where did the older area go?" Can the Minister explain why the Elders Case writes this when the Minister says there are no challenges because an economic agreement has been made? I would like an answer to that, and I also put some questions in my rapporteur's speech, which I really hoped the Minister had written down. This was in relation to the experimental scheme of 80 million. kr., The Danish People's Party was set up to accompany blind and partially sighted people over 67 years of age. It has still not been implemented, and blind and partially sighted people are still waiting for the accompanying scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213151017	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213151019	Thank you. With regard to the last question, I understand the question, I think I will come back in writing with a concrete cash-out plan and a timetable for it; we will come back with that. With regard to the first question, I am a little sad that it is being presented as if we and the parties that are included in the Finance Act are boasting and think that everything has now been done and now everything has been done with the Economic Agreement. No, this is just what we have said before the elections, namely a bottom under welfare, and from there we can start to straighten things out. But I haven't heard anyone say that now it's just a party and now everything's solved. No, everything's not solved. There are still hard work to be done, and there have been so many years of cuts in care for the elderly that it takes a long time to restore it. But now the course is set, and now the money's off.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213151122	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213151124	No, but it is because the Minister is constantly relying on that economic agreement. After all, we have not felt it in the Finance Act; there is a small pool that has been set aside for the elderly area, and we had to fight • we had to fight to get funds off in the elderly area in reserve, because the government among other things. We had to fight to get nursing homes pools and other things in. That is why I would like to ask the Minister: how many of the funds allocated have been earmarked for the elderly, which the elderly can feel?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213151159	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213151200	It's a lot of money that's earmarked. That is, for example, the case. the dementia action plan, and there are 125 million. kr permanently each year, so some funds are earmarked. But the litmus test is that we are not in favour of controlling this centrally, and I actually thought I heard bourgeois rapporteurs say that too. Centrally controlled earmarking of the smallest crown does not come out of anything good, nor does it here, but now the bottom is created, and from there we can restore our older sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213151231	The next question is Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213151234	Thank you. It is unbelievable that the focus can change from the fact that a few months ago you knocked out your arms and said that now welfare needs to be lifted, and that we here, six or seven months after an election, can settle for the fact that now we have to have a bottom under something that is not defined. But let it go. What I really want to ask is the attitude of the government towards free elections. After all, the Prime Minister rattled with the saber when she stood on the platform and opened the Danish Parliament, and I would really just like to say to the Minister for Health that it has created a certain insecurity out there, especially in view of the fact that a large number of older people are really happy with the free choice arrangements that we have, because people are different and have different preferences. And I would just like to ask the Minister for Health: is it government policy to put an end to free elections and put an end to it, or is it government policy to strengthen it?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213151337	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213151338	The government does not have a policy of abandoning or ending free elections, but what is essential here is exactly what the Prime Minister said in his opening speech to the Folketing, and that is to look at the setup that is behind such a thing as free elections. That was an example. Several examples were also mentioned in the opening speech. It was really clear because the setup is something that people are happy about and that works well. But should there be barcodes, should there be minute tyranny, that is, every minute, for every millimetre of detail in the description? Surely it is not possible to preserve the basic ideas of free choice by looking at the whole setup in it. That is our task. This is not an easy task, but rather than accepting minute tyranny, rather than accepting bar code tyranny, so let us see if we can do better without throwing out the baby with the bath water.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213151435	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213151437	I can then recommend to the government that the great work of the previous government, in other words the VLAK government, was carried out and started, and that we put forward several proposals on how to reduce bureaucracy, including in the care of the elderly. So it was just a call from here. But simply to create security out there, both in the elderly and also in all the people around the elderly, can the Minister of Health promise us that we will not be tampering with the free choice so that we will still be able to choose the care of the elderly and the food supplier and everything else we know in four years' time?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213151511	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213151512	I think there is only one who creates insecurity, and that must be the rapporteur of the Left himself. I have just answered it clearly, I have also replied in writing to it, and I have also replied to it earlier in the Chamber. So it's the Left that has an interest in creating insecurity about this, we don't. It is quite clear that we have no intention of abolishing free elections, but the organisation behind that we have to look at, and I would also like the Left to take a look at it, at least we invite all parties to take part in the work of looking at: has it not gone too far with the organisation in it? Has there not been too little trust and too much control?
ParlaMint-DK_20191213151548	There are no more questions for the Minister, so thank you to the Minister, and thank all the participants. No one else has asked to speak, and that is why the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption will take place on Tuesday 17 December 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20191213151610	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 17 December 2019. 12.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
