ParlaMint-DK_20190227130008	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews. But on the basis of the many presentations I shall refrain from reading the titles. Let me say to the listeners that when I do it for virtually an empty hall apart from those who absolutely must be here, it is because everything is written down in the Parliamentary Times and preserved forever. Minister for Justice (Søren Pape Poulsen): Bill No. L 170 (Proposal for a law amending the Code of Civil Procedure and the Criminal Code. In connection with transports), Bill No. L 171 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Civil Procedure and the Law on Television Monitoring. Bill No. L 172 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on State Compensation to Victims of Crime. Bill No. L 173 (Proposal for a law amending the Penal Code. Bill No. L 174 (Proposal for a law amending the Code of Civil Procedure. Bill No. L 175 (Proposal for a law amending the Penal Code. Bill No. L 176 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Administration. Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs (Lars Christian Lilleholt): Bill no. L 177 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Promotion of Renewable Energy. Bill No. L 178 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Energy Networks, the Law on Electricity Supply and the Act on Natural Gas Supply. Bill No. L 179 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Use of Denmark's Undergrounds. Employment Minister (Troels Lund Poulsen): Bill No. L 180 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on sickness benefits and various other laws. Bill No. L 181 (Proposal for a law amending the law on holidays and the law on the administration and administration of holiday allowances receivable. Minister for Education and Research (Tommy Ahlers): Bill no. L 182 (Proposal for a Law amending the Social Security Code). Minister for Culture (Mette Bock): Bill No. L 183 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Libraries. Transport, Building and Housing Minister (Ole Birk Olesen): Bill no. L 184 (Proposal for a Law amending the Railway Act. railway package, including new powers for the European Union Railway Agency, adjustments to the legal framework of the Maritime Commission for Civil Aviation and the work of the Railways, etc.) Bill No. L 185 (Proposal for a law amending the law on urban renewal and urban development. Bill No. L 186 (Proposal for a Law amending the Road Traffic Code. Minister for Children and Social Affairs (Mai Mercado): Bill No. 187 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Social Services and Equalisation). Trade Minister (Rasmus Jarlov): Bill No. L 188 (Proposal for a law amending the law on holiday homes and camping, etc., the Act on the temporary regulation of housing conditions and the Building Act. Bill No. 189 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Financial Activities and various other laws and repealing the Law on State Participation in Credit Institutions. Andreas Steenberg (RV) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 109 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the abolition of financial guarantees in applications for family reunification). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20190227130134	The first question is to the Minister of Justice by Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227130143	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227130145	The question is: will the government stand firm that jihadists from Denmark, who are fighting for the Islamic State, are not going back to Denmark, and what international commitments has Denmark agreed to in this respect?
ParlaMint-DK_20190227130205	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227130206	Thank you. And thank you for the question. Foreign warriors have turned their backs on Denmark. They have gone to war against democracy and freedom. I have absolutely no sympathy for them and they are undesirable in Denmark. But that does not change the fact that it is a complex problem and there are no perfect or easy solutions. The fact is that we cannot refuse Danish citizens to return to Denmark. This also applies to foreign warriors, who are Danish citizens, no matter how little we like them. Foreign fighters may very much stay away, but we have to or may have to accept them here in Denmark if they have Danish citizenship. There are also considerations to consider having foreign fighters punished for their crimes, just as we cannot allow them to travel freely in other countries and eventually end up in Denmark or another EU country. And that's why it's a complex issue. The cases vary from person to person, and therefore they must be assessed in concrete terms by the authorities, who can then find the best solution in each case. The Government will therefore continue the work of the Joint Authority Group with the participation of among others. The Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration are constantly considering the best tools and dealing with individual cases, in particular on the basis of security considerations and our legal obligations.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227130339	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227130340	It's left to get some answers in this. In other words, these are not just common traitors who have been taken down to fight against all the things Denmark loves; they are also dangerous terrorists and violent psychopaths. And I would say that in order to protect the Danes alone, we must do everything we can to ensure that they do not cross our borders. But let me try to ask in practical terms: will the Danish Government take the initiative to bring these people home if they ask for it, although the Danish Government is not obliged to do so? That was question number one. And then I would like to ask: how will the burden of proof be raised in relation to some people who have operated in Syria? And is the government willing to tighten up in relation to this kind of terrorism, so that people who enter an area where the Islamic State has been support terror in themselves and therefore do not have to go back to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20190227130453	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227130455	Thank you. I'll try as well as I can. That was a lot of questions. But the essence of it is essentially whether Denmark should say so actively: let us finally get them home. I mean, I feel that if we can tell people in law and law that we have no obligations to them, then we should not do anything to bring them home. But it's a very broad palette of people; there are some types like them, sir. Christian Langballe mentions here, and then there may also be women who have gone down there because they are going to have children for the caliphate, and it is also incredibly stupid, but that does not necessarily make them very dangerous. And that's why we have to look at it on a case-by-case basis. So I feel that if we can see that now there is a human being who will be released shortly, if we do nothing, and then we have a potential terrorist running around at large, we would rather have them home, lift the burden of proof, have them convicted and put in prison.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227130547	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227130549	Well, I think that these cage panes that have gone down there to give birth to the caliphate and support the Islamic State are just as guilty as the men. So the Minister of Justice must excuse me very much. They are at least as guilty as the men who practiced the terror, and therefore they should be subject to the same paragraph, that is, Chapter 12 of the criminal code, and then they could be denied citizenship if they were convicted. But I just think it should be the right thing for them to be convicted in the immediate areas, that is to say in Syria, where they have committed the crimes; it would be obvious that they will be prosecuted and convicted down there, and that is something that the Minister of Justice is also well aware that we have recommended and emphasised in the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227130640	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227130641	I understand that too, and that is why we have the group with authorities who look at • very unbiased: what do you do in other countries, what can the possibilities be? Because we have just an interest in the fact that if it can be solved in another way, then we must do so. Now it can be said that Syria may not be the place where international courts should be built, if that is what they wanted, because the Kurds are part of Syria, and we do not recognise the regime of Assad. But we look very open and open: can there be solutions where we can come after these people? With regard to the women who have gone down there to give birth to the caliphate, I agree that it cannot be defended for a second that there can be a difference between the fact that you are a potential terrorist and the fact that you are giving birth to the caliphate. It is equally abhorrent, but the danger of individual people may well be different.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227130734	Here you go, sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227130736	Well, that depends on how to interpret Chapter 12 on treason and terrorism against the state, etc. and so on, which I think these people are guilty of, but I just point out that these cage windows do not seem to me to be small-scale traitors and that I do not think they are less potentially dangerous. What is my problem is that if those people ever come home, they may be sentenced for a number of years, but they come back out and they are extremely dangerous. I think that they represent some of the most dangerous things we have today and that we should have them here within our borders. We already have some of them. I think that is simply a disgrace to Denmark and the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227130822	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227130823	But I would like to repeat that I think I want them as little here in Denmark as Mr. Christian Langballe does. We don't want them here. Then it is just that there is also a cold law that says that if they are Danish citizens, we cannot refuse them to come to Denmark because they are Danish citizens. We have, of course, taken the citizenship of some of these people, we have taken the basis of residence from some of these people who had dual citizenship. We're ready to use all the paragraphs to get them convicted. But if they are very dangerous, we do not have any interest in them travelling freely, for example. Europe and the warriors of other countries are doing so. I guess it's better that we put them in prison, because the Danes can't be comfortable with some warriors running around around Europe that we don't have control over. That's why I think this is really complex. I think we have the same perception of these people.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227130907	Thank you. The question is closed. The next question is to the Minister of Justice by Karina Due, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227130913	Read it. Read it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227130914	Thank you for that, President. The question is this: does the Minister consider it appropriate that it is only through a person's criminal record that information can be found that a person has been denied the right to deal with animals?
ParlaMint-DK_20190227130927	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227130930	Thank you for the question. And now from the previous to something quite different, one can safely say. I've been thinking, I wonder what's in the question? But I guess I'll know a little more about that in a minute. Because it is important for a person to be denied the right to deal with animals by judgment, for example. if the person concerned is found guilty of cruelty or gross and reckless treatment of animals. Animals must be treated with respect, with dignity, and, of course, if a person is denied the right to deal with animals, it must be respected. I say that just to make it absolutely clear. Therefore, it will also appear from the Crime Register that the person is denied the right to deal with animals. That information will be included in the person's criminal record for public use. It's perfectly normal that you can see a person's previous convictions in the Crime Register. I am not aware that this system raises problems in practice in relation to disqualifications, and that is probably what I can answer the question. And then I have a clear feeling that the questioner is about to make it more clear that there are probably more requests in this matter than I can just read from the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227131031	Here you go, Mrs. Karina Due.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227131033	Thank you. The Minister of Justice is absolutely right. There are problems. It is not the customary practice to ask for a criminal record, for example. should not sell a puppy or a kitten from internationals either; people should not be required to provide a criminal record. And then we have the problem. If it is the case that someone has been denied the right to deal with animals, we have no way of understanding it. This means that one day you may be deprived of the right to deal with animals, and the next day you can go to a shelter or a kennel and buy yourself a new dog. And there I think there should be an alternative register where you can draw the necessary information; where you can get a 'yes' or 'no', without necessarily having to be familiar with the entire criminal background of the person and all the judgments that have been made. And it's a problem that we don't have it. It must also be a register that can be accessed as a leader in an international market, i.e. as an ordinary pet shop. If it's the case that you have a litter of puppies you'd like to have set aside, you have to be able to easily access this register and look up the buyer's social security number. If nothing comes out, it's fine, and then you can sell a puppy to him.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227131202	Here you go. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227131203	Thank you. What I am hearing is that the present system is giving rise to problems and that, therefore, there is something that may not be clarified. My answer will depend on what is the purpose of what is being mentioned here. But I can say that I understand the question so that people who are denied the right to deal with animals can go and buy some animals somewhere anyway because you cannot see who they are. That is the problem. This is not going to be so much under the Crime Register, but I think that is something we need to have further dialogue on. Because, depending on what the idea behind the proposal is, some of it will be something I have to look at, while something else will lie with the Minister for the Environment and Food. I have such an unbiased attitude to discuss this. But I'm not sure I can say on behalf of another minister that we're going to do that tomorrow.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227131256	Here you go, Mrs. Karina Due.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227131258	It's just really, really important that we get to grips with this. After all, we fully agree that the fact that we have made it significantly easier to deny people the right to deal with animals is a really, really good thing. We just need to make sure that it is also translated so that we can use it in the right way in everyday life. There it is, then, that I see there are some problems when you can't just access this register as regular traders.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227131327	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227131328	I can hear without knowing any detail in this, that there can be a challenge. I haven't been familiar with this until now. It is clear that the police can of course see whether they are allowed to keep animals or not. But it is clear that if you want to acquire an animal, the kennels do not necessarily know whether they are dealing with a person who has a problem. I think we need to have a dialogue on how to do this. I hear there's a good deal about it. I cannot stand here like this today and make a commitment, because some of it may be the territory of another minister, while others may be mine. However, I would like to take a completely open-minded dialogue on what we can do in those cases. Because people who are not fit to deal with animals shouldn't have them.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227131415	Then that is the final question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227131417	I really appreciate that commitment. It's a hole we need to shut down. We have had some very good intentions, and we have had this with the government, to increase the possibility of denying people the right to deal with animals. So we're gonna close this hole so we can really use it in the day-to-day. Thank you very much for the Minister's attention.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227131445	Thank you. The question is closed. Then there is the next question to the Minister of Justice by Mrs Karina Due, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227131452	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227131453	Thank you. The question is: is the Minister satisfied with the pace of the creation of animal welfare units?
ParlaMint-DK_20190227131501	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227131503	Thank you for that question too. I would like to say first of all that I am pleased that the government and the Danish People's Party, together with the 2019 Financial Act, have allocated money to set up three specialised animal welfare units, because animals must be treated with respect and dignity, and therefore animal welfare is an important area. It is part of the financial agreement between the Danish People's Party and the government that the three new animal welfare units will be in operation from 1 July 2019. It may not be so explicit, but half-yearly effects have been introduced. The money that has been set aside has been put into the estimates and then this year with half effect. This means that they must be in place and run in the second half of 2019. The National Police, together with the three parties involved, are currently in the process of establishing the units. In view of the work under way, it is also expected that the livestock units will be in operation as planned on 1 July. That is why I have to say that I am satisfied with the pace of setting up the units, but I will, of course, follow it and make sure that we are ready, because we have an agreement that they should be ready, because we have set aside money for a six-month period, and that will be the second half of 2019. There, of course, this has to be up and running.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227131619	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227131620	Is the Minister going to involve the Danish People's Party in the whole talk about these animal welfare units? It's like our heart blood that these animal welfare units have even been born. We would very much like to be involved so that we are sure that the whole meaning of animal welfare units will be passed through.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227131645	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227131647	I have the pleasure of having meetings with the Danish People's Party's Legal Rapporteur very often. It is clear that I would very much like to invite you, when I have a little more on it, to give an information on how far we are. I would also like to have a discussion on whether this is what was thought of, of course, within the framework and the agreement we have made, but I think it is only natural that the Danish People's Party knows what is being set in motion and can give their opinion. After all, we have agreed on some units and I would very much like to discuss them.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227131728	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227131730	After all, we already get a lot of inquiries both from police officers who are actually really, really interested in getting to work in these animal welfare units, and also from people who may not be trained within the police, but who would actually like to take the training just to get to work in this. I get a lot of such inquiries, and that is why I think it is really important that we have a plan, so that we know where they are going to be, when it gets going and how far we are.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227131805	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227131806	Thank you. I think we should stand here and agree that we should just hold a status meeting on how far we are. What I can say about who should be employed is that we have at least agreed that employees should be trained in animal welfare and have a special knowledge of the Animal Protection Act. It is clear that, as in other areas, this is someone who needs special knowledge if it is to make sense. But I think we should try to take a status on it and see where we are and let us get some input on it. In other words, we have just started it on the basis of the financial law agreement, but it makes good sense to have a discussion on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227131841	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227131844	In Hillerød, there's a police circle that's done it really, really well in this animal welfare area. You have given it a very, very high priority, and I would like to be sure that, like the experience from there, you will use it to get into the other animal welfare units. We don't have to invent the deep plate twice. Now that we have seen examples of something that works excellent, that is what we have to do in other places. Is it considered?
ParlaMint-DK_20190227131915	The last answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227131917	I have a strong expectation that if you do something good somewhere, you get inspired. I take that for granted, and I would like to ask you that. Now we get these three units in the three police circles where there are relatively many animal welfare cases, i.e. in North Jutland, South-East Jutland and Central and West Zealand, and it is clear that we have to look at where you do it well. That is also why I think it is really good that we should have the debate here during Wednesday's Question Time, which may then lead us to sit down and ask where we really are and what kind of process it is, perhaps both to secure the Danish People's Party, but also to get input into whether we are on the right path. Then let's deal with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227131957	Thank you for that, and thank you to the questioner and minister. The next question is to the Minister for Justice by Mr. Peter Kofod, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227132005	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227132007	Thank you very much. What is the Minister's view that as a citizen you cannot gain insight into your public criminal record?
ParlaMint-DK_20190227132013	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227132015	Thank you for the question. It is, of course, the case that a criminal record for private use and one for public use can be issued from the Criminal Register. A criminal record for private use is issued, as the name suggests, to private persons, for example. for employment in a company. A criminal record for public use shall be issued to public authorities with the consent of the person concerned. This may be in the case of recruitment to specific public authorities or in situations where public authorities deal with specific types of cases. The difference between a private and a public criminal record is, among other things, that the information contained in a private criminal record is not as extensive as that contained in a public criminal record, as is the information provided for a longer period of time by a public criminal record. Penalty certificates issued for public use shall be treated confidentially by the authority which issued the certificate. The criminal record belongs to the National Police, and I understand the National Police so that the public record is not handed over to the person to whom the information relates. The reason for this, of course, is that according to the National Police, it is traditional that a private company should not indirectly be able to be asked or pressured to produce a public criminal record, which is therefore more extensive than a private criminal record. I have not heard before that the present system should cause problems. I would also like to say to the questioner here that, if there are any shortcomings, I think that is something we should look at. Among other things: is there an imminent revision of the criminal record notice this year, and I think we should discuss that. I would also very much like to discuss it further if there is a challenge on this issue, because then we will have to resolve it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227132202	Here you go, sir. Peter Kofod.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227132204	Thank you for your answer. This is something that has interested me, after I have asked question 303, where the National Police answer the same as the Minister answers, in relation to the one of the three criminal records that are public. When it has interested me, it is because I cannot understand that a potential public sector boss can have access to information about a person whom the person concerned is not able to see or relate to himself. I've never heard of an infallible system. I have never heard of any system where there could be no mistake and where it was appropriate that the person it was about had the opportunity to see what the authorities had on the person of bad things. I think that should be quite natural. However, in order to address what the Minister says could be the reason why this is the case here, namely that you should not be pressured by any private boss to hand over a public record because it is more detailed and goes further back in time, I would like to ask: is it not right that it is only a public boss who, with the consent of the person called for a possible interview, will be able to draw a public record? So if you are a private boss asking a potential job seeker to find such a certificate, it would not in itself be possible, even if you introduced the possibility that people would be able to gain insight into a public criminal record.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227132340	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227132343	I'm gonna keep my tongue straight in my mouth. At the risk that I have not correctly understood the question, I would say that it also depends on what framework we are setting for it. I mean, we're gonna make it, for example. If you have the rules on a public criminal record, it is because we have said that if you have to take on special duties or work in different areas, we will have an extra assurance that you will not be able to work here if you have committed some particular offences. But we can always discuss whether we should say that the same rules should apply to the public as to the private sector. There are also some people who, of course, do not seek positions in the public sector because they know that it is being asked for here. I think we need to discuss more about the principles of how much we think we as an employer should be told about someone looking for a job. I mean, how relevant should it be to the job you have to fill?
ParlaMint-DK_20190227132435	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227132437	But another principle should also be that, as a citizen, you can gain insight into what the public may have of information on you and which may be relevant if you, for example, have access to it. is seeking a specific appointment such as that mentioned by the Minister. So, in reality, I think that the principle that one can gain knowledge of oneself must weigh higher or heavier than the other principle. That is why I am asking the Minister if we could change this so as to ensure some kind of insight into public criminal records. That's what I'm suggesting.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227132504	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227132506	If I am to be skinless honest now, when we are just few here with each other, I must also say that I have asked a lot about it, because I am also surprised. I understand the point of view, as the questioner also says: why can't you have access to what you say about yourself? Then it is clear that then the answer is that it is because one should not be able to risk being pressured. But I do think that this is something we should take up next time we meet, and then perhaps have a talk about whether it should be part of the work that is going on with the revision of the Criminal Register, because this is not exactly on the flat hand. I can understand the questioner's approach to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227132545	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227132547	Then I understand that we speak the same language and that we're actually not that far apart, and I think that'll be it for this round. I look forward to having a talk on this subject soon.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227132559	And the minister nods, and that was the answer. Thank you. That concludes the question. Then there is a new question, and it is to the Minister for Finance of Mr. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227132610	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227132612	Thank you, President. When the Minister replies to the Health and Older People's Committee's Question 444 (alm. (ii) does the Minister consider that the Government's calculation of the savings in the closure of the elected regional councils has not been conclusively established for the 36 board members of the Danish Health Service and the Health Administrations?
ParlaMint-DK_20190227132639	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227132640	Yeah, I mean, I'm sure it is. After all, with the government's proposals for health reform, we will have a healthcare system that solves three major problems we have. One is that we will have greater proximity, through the 21 health communities that we are proposing to work with municipalities, general practice and the emergency hospitals that we have. We'll solve a challenge we have with inequality. There is a big difference between how people are treated today. It depends on which zip code you have, which address you have. And then you create what a lot of patients are preoccupied with: more coherence. Too many patients today find that the various elements of health care, be it the municipality, home care, rehabilitation, general practice, the specialist or one or the other department in the hospital, do not talk across. In this context, and because we are creating a new health service, we are also saying that the 205 regional politicians who are today must be replaced by something else. And the second is that there must be a total of 36 different people, 30 decentralised, 11 central. Of these, five are both decentralized and central to the group. So it is a total of 36 different people who will sit on boards and have an honor. But it's a very small part. In other words, the remuneration for 36 board posts is an enormously small part, compared to the fact that there is currently a budget of some 114 billion in health care. kr. and that in the area we are looking at here, which will help to create funding in the proximity fund, savings will have to be made out of a total framework of 2.5 billion. kr., as it is non-health-related tasks which of this should generate that we can find money to put into the proximity fund. So whether we put the fee exactly to sit on the board 1 my over or 1 my under the board and that's among other things. What we are going through in our conversations is of no importance in relation to such a large calculation, it is when you replace 205 politicians with 36 appointed board members, and when you change in a health area, a health administration that overall manages over 114 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227132859	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227132901	It is, of course, a rather strange and somewhat backward-looking method of reasoning used by the Minister of Finance here, so to point out that it is a very small proportion of the overall sum which, if necessary, will go to the board of directors, because exactly the same argument can be applied to the remuneration of the members of the regional council and the costs of the elected section of the regional councils. It is a very, very small proportion of what health care costs. So what the very small cost is is that there is a direct influence from citizens in relation to how resources are used in the health sector. This ensures that account is taken of more than just what the officials estimate to be possible to make of potential savings at the administrative level. There are, after all, numerous examples of how we have chosen to organise ourselves differently in the individual regions than what the central recommendations say. But in any case, what the Minister of Finance begins by saying, namely that the calculation should be fair, would surely require that an amount actually be included in the proximity fund in relation to what this will cost on an ongoing basis. It is clear from the Minister's own reply that this has not been done. Well, there are some things that haven't been calculated. Then there are a number of other elements on which I fully agree with the Minister for Finance, i.e. among others. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which has been drawn up by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and for the excellent work done by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. But that doesn't change the fact that in the large sum here there are at least some things that haven't been calculated. And I can also understand that a number of political parties are currently negotiating to extend the number of members of the board if necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227133110	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227133111	That is the wrong conclusion. Well, of course, we have recognised that there must be a fee for the board members. It's 36 coming, instead of 205. The number alone means that there is a fairly clear saving in the fact that only 36 board members should be attached instead of 205 politicians. The second aspect is whether one is exactly at the same level as one type or another when comparing with other public board positions. It might move a tiny little bit into a very, very large calculation. But if we just take it one more time, because it's actually the same thing...
ParlaMint-DK_20190227133148	No, we don't, because it takes too long. Here you go, sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227133149	But I would really like to hear from the Minister: what powers does the Minister envisage getting into those board positions if necessary? I understand that one of the things you're looking at is having to bring in some professionals, and I assume that without knowing it with great certainty that professionals who are going to sit on a board, everything else equals also having to have a fee which is of a certain size, related to the responsibility they thus also get.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227133223	Thank you, and then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227133224	In other words, we already have different types of remuneration, depending on the committee in which you sit, and the more responsibility you have in the current regional councils, the higher the remuneration you get. And when you go from 205 to 36, it is clear that there will also be a clear distribution of what responsibility there will be for these people. And we have to compare with what you get on a similar public board elsewhere. But the thing is, there will be some things, and we've said that pretty clearly... that are familiar with the operation of this type of task. There will be some who are familiar with the health profession and some who are familiar with plant or IT investments of the order of magnitude we are talking about. Because these are quite large sizes we are talking about in the future health care system.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227133310	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227133311	But then it is actually quite relevant, I think, also to ask: will there be more or fewer relatively speaking people who have health professional competences on these boards? At least I know from the count I have made of how the distribution is among the 205 Regional Council members that it is surprising that many people have a medical background. Then there will be more or less with a health professional background on the boards of the government's paper?
ParlaMint-DK_20190227133340	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227133341	That is a good question, because we started talking about remuneration. And with remuneration it is the case that only 36 must be paid to sit on the boards in the future. But there will be much more to it, because out in the 21 health communities there will be people representing the municipality. We have pointed to the mayor and a committee chairman of the relevant committee. It may well be that more people are entering into the negotiations now under way, where there is a need for greater local representation and what they have of educational backgrounds, I do not think, Mr President. Benny Engelbrecht or I know today. Therefore, if you compare with the fact that many people with a health background have a post and participate in the management of the future health care system, then you need to know the mapping of who sits in the mayor's posts and who sits in committee posts around. Do they have a medical, nursing or social background that allows them to count in the same statement? I don't know. We started the discussion by comparing remuneration, and it is clear that the remuneration of 36 board members is something quite different from that of 205 politicians.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227133441	Thank you for that and the question is closed. We have a new question for the Finance Minister from Astrid Krag, the Social Democratic Party. There's a co-questioner, Benny Engelbrecht, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227133450	Go ahead and read.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227133451	Thank you. The question is: How much more money will the government devote to the health reform in agreements in 2019 as promised by among others. the Minister of Health in Jyllands-Posten on 20 February 2019?
ParlaMint-DK_20190227133505	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227133507	In Jyllands-Posten on 20 February 2019 it is said that we will provide funds for the 21 health communities in the future. I hope that we agree that this is what the article says, that is to say that it is intended to adjust it. It is said that there is a desire for some more muscle to be put in, and it is new money that must be set aside either in future economic agreements or in the Finance Act. However, as I have said, it is also the means that must be used to feed the health communities that are due to come in 2021. After all, we have said from the start that every year we have to give more money to the health service and that the more money must come in both the agreement on what the regions or future regional health authorities should have to run health care for, and then they must come from the Finance Act. This is what we have done traditionally; it was done under the previous government, and it is done under this government. Since that we have said that we will create a proximity fund of 6.5 billion. kr., which should go to primarily two things: One is to create more emergency preparedness so that we can close the black holes around Denmark, where there is not a sufficient emergency response today, and then we need to lift the healthhouses, and we need to modernise some of the medical clinics we have around, so that we get some good facilities for the tasks that are. Half of the proximity fund will have to go to that. The second half of the proximity fund must go to make the skills increase that is necessary in a decentralised manner in order to better carry out the tasks in the municipalities in general practice, in a better way than what is happening today, so that we have the coherence of the patient process that we lack and that patients in particular are desperately lacking at the moment. So the 6 billion. kr. is therefore new money that comes into health care in a way that allows us to strengthen and design health care better. In addition to that, every year, on the basis of the agreements that are being made, additional money will come in, but we have not decided beforehand how much it is going to be year by year.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227133721	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227133722	Thank you to the Minister for Finance for that answer. Let us not discuss the proximity fund here, we have done so many times, and I think it has been made very clear that it is not just new money. Among other things: is the money mentioned by the Minister of Finance concerning the medical houses, money that was set aside under the former Socialist Government, where the coinage has then been delayed, because that money should be out to work now. But let it rest. When I ask this question today, and when we take an interest in it, it is because the Minister for Health said literally, and so the Minister for Finance has quoted here, that the more money you want to allocate is new money, which is either set aside in the forthcoming economic agreement or in the Finance Act, and then adds that it is not a small amount. This is good news for all the stakeholders out there who are concerned, and it is from the Elders Case over all the health professionals to the mayors in relation to the 500,000 treatments that have to be moved out of the hospitals, and the 40,000 admissions that the government will have moved into the near health care in very, very few years. That is why it was good to hear that our Minister for Health could say both that money should be set aside in the Finance Act and the Economic Agreement, and also that it was not a small sum. That is why, of course, I also hope that the Minister of Finance here today will come a little closer if it is to have any kind of credibility or soundboard out there. After all, the government is close to negotiating the forthcoming economic agreement with regions and municipalities, and so the financial law process, which points to the government putting forward a financial bill by the autumn, must start. The government must have thought about this and linked it to this health reform that has been put forward when we can have a minister of health who goes out and clearly says that there will be no small amount of money. So can the Minister not be so kind as to answer today either honestly that you do not have the money and therefore cannot dispose of it, because you also want to be able to use it for something else, following on from the debate on top tax reliefs we have had this week, or simply put an amount on it?
ParlaMint-DK_20190227133920	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227133921	If the memory were in order, one would remember from one's own time as Minister for Health that a government does not announce in advance what the framework is for economic agreements. But, of course, it may have been suppressed because it has been so long since you sat in government or because the period was so short. I should just like to remind you that no government has ever reported out before the debate on economic agreements, what the framework is that you want to negotiate. The point is that if we look back, we will see that over the past four years, as a government, we have raised health budgets by 6 billion. kr. The 4 billion. kr. is located in the regions, the rest is on municipal health care or state health care. And it is clear that when we look forward, there is also a need for a boost to be made in the coming years, but I am not going to report today what the framework will be for the negotiations that will be on the economic agreement in June, let alone what it will be in the course of negotiations on the Finance Act in the autumn.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227134019	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227134020	Then I would just like to say to the Minister of Finance quite calmly that the government of which I was a part did not, of course, put forward a huge health reform which will change the structure of our health services and which will bring about some very significant changes. It is therefore significant that 500,000 treatments must be moved out of our hospitals and that there must be 40,000 fewer admissions • patients who no longer have to go to our hospitals • if the government gets their way, with the reform that has been put forward. It is clear, then, that it will have to call for an answer as to what resources are available here. Now the government has pressured to say that money will come and that it is not a small amount, but the Minister for Finance cannot come any closer here today. I find that extremely worrying.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227134059	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227134100	We have not been under any pressure at all, because already at that press conference, which is quite different from where we presented the health reform, I said that there should be more money for health care in the coming years. So it is such a rhetorical trick that can be used in youth organisations to say that some people have now been pushed into something, but we have done it entirely of our own free will and in advance. It is quite true that you did not put forward a health reform that could modernise health care. We need 500 000 treatments to be moved out in a decentralised way more close to the citizens, so that we have a more decentralised healthcare system than what we have. We need better efforts to prevent up to 40,000 admissions so that patients do not have to be hospitalized, but so that it can be managed by better preparation and better local reception, and that is what is being set aside in the economy that is today and the economy that we are setting out for the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227134153	Then there's a co-questioner. Sir. Benny Engelbrecht, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227134154	It is thus that the government's economic plan is based on projections and, in addition, on assumptions as to what public consumption is going to increase in the coming years. Free from memory, the government has proposed an average growth in public consumption of 0.4, including growth in defence, so that is approx. 0,3 in the rest. Is it the intention of the government to use all the available room for manoeuvre, all the boost that will be in public growth, only in terms of health, or should it also be distributed among other elements? And if the answer to that is yes for it to be distributed in other areas too, in what areas does the Minister of Finance envisage saving in order to be able to live up to just some of the demographic features that are expected to be in the field of health?
ParlaMint-DK_20190227134259	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227134259-2	The economy we need to move forward must cover more expenditure, including health expenditure, older expenditure, research expenditure, legal certainty and other expenditure. That's also why it's not just enough to look at what you use extra. You also have to look at the many, many billions of dollars we spend in advance. One of the differences between the previous government and the present one is that we have tightened up in the area of foreigners. We've reduced the benefits. We have made sure that the influx was managed, which means that the costs of receiving refugees have fallen grossly by 4 billion. kr., from when it peaked to what we drop off this year. So that's 4 billion. kr., we can spend on something else. Some of the money goes to development aid outside the world, to help in the neighbourhoods, which means that fewer refugees move towards Denmark, and some can be used in Denmark for other areas. I would much rather spend the money on having good conditions for our sick, good conditions for our elderly and good conditions for our school-seeking children than spending the money on resetting the benefits for foreigners coming to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227134401	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227134402	Is that what the Minister of Finance can guarantee today, so that it will only be through savings in the field of foreigners that more money will be spent on health, or can one also imagine that savings in education will be made, for example? the re-prioritisation contribution or other savings in the public sector may end up being used for health purposes? For the truth is that even if you take all the money available to the government in its economic plan, it is not enough to meet the expected additional pressure on health care from now until 2025.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227134439	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227134440	No, it was just the speaking time that meant that I did not move forward, so I will continue. The fact that we are reducing the size of Denmark's Radio actually means that we are freeing up the room for manoeuvre in the public economy so that we can also prioritise other public expenditure. And I would much rather that we spend some money on having good education, good vocational training, than that we have a Danish Radio of the size it had under the previous government. Therefore, in the coming years, when Denmark's Radio becomes more efficient and slimmed down, we will have a room for manoeuvre in the public economy, which will enable us to increase public expenditure, while at the same time reducing the amount paid by the Danes to Denmark's Radio by abolishing the licence. This is one of the ways in which we can free up some room for manoeuvre in the economy to do more in the areas we give priority to. It's just to say that when you look at what can be devoted to welfare, health and the elderly, you don't just have to look at what you want to use extras, you also have to look at whether the many, many billions we already spend are used wisely. I don't always think they do, and we tighten that up.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227134539	Thank you, and that's the last round for Mrs Astrid Krag. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227134544	However, I have to try to keep the Minister of Finance a little firm on what the Finance Minister's colleagues have said. There has been a very great deal of concern and, incidentally, a very great criticism that so quickly so many treatments would be moved away from our hospitals • patients who are going to hospitals today and who are not going to do so in the future with the government's plan. 500,000 visits, 40,000 admissions. And in response to that criticism, two ministerial colleagues say to the Minister for Finance, the Minister for Health and Innovation that more money will be set aside, including here and now, also in the forthcoming economic agreement. I think this should be taken very, very seriously. And now that two ministerial colleagues go out and say that we have listened and that you can just be calm, why won't the government tell us what funds you have here and now? Why can we not get an amount of what we think it takes to make it realistic?
ParlaMint-DK_20190227134635	Thank you. Then that's the last answer to this question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227134636	I am afraid that the questioner simply did not understand the government's health proposals. Because by moving 500,000 patients out of the hospitals, into the near, out to either general practice or to the municipal, the money that today lies for the task at the hospitals will, of course, follow out. What we have said is that money should be spent on starting up the new health communities. It is that we can get the cooperation between general practice, specialists, municipalities and hospitals started, so that patients do not experience what was done under the previous government's health care system, namely that the information did not follow, and that, as it were, they were lost between several chairs and therefore there was no connection. We are creating this link with the reform of health, and that also requires some money to start work.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227134722	Thank you. That concludes the question. The next question is from Mrs Astrid Krag to the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227134727	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227134728	Thank you. We'll stay on the same street, I guess. The question is: will the government allocate the funds to ensure that health care can keep up when, according to the Ministry of Finance, there will be a need for an increase in health expenditure of approx. 12 billion kr. in 2025 compared to today?
ParlaMint-DK_20190227134743	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227134745	It is an insult to say that the Ministry of Finance has said that there will be a need of 12 billion. kr. In that answer to the Folketing, where the 12 billion. kr. It is said that the demographic trait is computational and must be used with caution and is not an expression of what the actual year-to-year needs may be, because it depends on many things. It depends on technological developments; it depends on efficiency; it depends on many things that neither the questioner nor I know today when we look forward to 2025. Nor do I believe that, if you rewind the time of six years, you would know exactly where the health care should be today. And therefore it is not possible to rewind 6 years forward and just extend it and say that exactly the amount needs to be spent. But the fact that it is that it is a question of health care being one of the priorities for us is also clear. This has been done by the government over the past four years, when, as has been mentioned in an earlier answer to a question here, we have raised health budgets by 6 billion. kr. Since the 2015 elections, where more money has been made in the regions and more money has been added to the municipal part of the more money has been added to the finance laws. We have made it our priority, for example, that we should be able to do something about it. has significantly strengthened psychiatry with the Financial Law Agreement for 2019. And that means that some of the tasks that were, if not left behind, so that at least not priorityd so high historically, have now been given a boost. We must also do so in the future, but whether it will be exactly 12 billion. kr., you can't say. It is not a figure that the Ministry of Finance can say you need. It was on the basis of some computational assumptions that we were asked to calculate, but on the basis of the terms of the questioner and not ours. What we are looking at is: what is happening year by year on the way? What are some things that make health care need a boost? And what is at the same time making health care more effective?
ParlaMint-DK_20190227134950	Thank you. Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227134951	Thank you for that answer. I would therefore urge some economists to enter into this discussion, because the Minister for Finance makes it sound as if these computational figures about the demographic trait are some that can swing incredibly much and are made on an incredibly uncertain basis. They're not. These are figures that have been made in the light of what has been seen of development over the last few decades. And that suddenly something completely fundamental should happen in relation to what we see with the ageing population, more new treatment options, etc. that had to change this, I would like to hear some economists come and tell about, i.e. how many times it has happened and how uncertain those models are. I think the Minister of Finance is talking about when it's true in his hug. Now the Minister of Finance says here, and I'm glad he says that it has to be well done that far we can agree. I do not think we agree on how much money should be spent, especially when you look at the government's economic plans, where there is a lack of money, so that you can get anywhere near everything you say you want in your health reform. And then I just want to ask the Minister: when you are so clear about spending money, both in our hospitals, but also in the near health care, so that the elderly medical patients experience that a system is being built that can take care of them, so that we do not have as many turn-door patients as we do today, so that all of these problems are so obvious in relation to the lack of time in our health care, why would you not reserve the money, set aside the money in the years to come? Then we are sure that they will not be used accidentally for top tax relief or anything else. Then we reserve the part of our economy that is needed to ensure that patients can be safe in the future and that, compared to these 500,000 treatments that are no longer allowed in our hospitals, there are means to build up the system that needs to take care of those patients. After all, patients are very badly served by not being allowed to go to the hospital unless a strong system has been built up. And it's not free, even if the Minister of Finance wants it to sound like you can move tasks from one place to another, and then it's solved. More money is needed, as the Minister says here today. Why not point out how much money you want to spend year by year and make sure that money is also reserved for our health?
ParlaMint-DK_20190227135158	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227135200	I am surprised that the Social Democratic Party will not guarantee that the low benefits that have been obtained in the field of foreigners will be maintained, so that you can have a guarantee that the funds available will not simply go towards raising benefits. For months now, we have been asking for a response from the Social Democratic Party: what exactly do you mean in relation to the area of benefits? And we're not gonna know. And that is why one can only believe that it is because you are planning to raise the benefits again, which will both mean that the costs are rising for those who are here and that we will have too many more that we are also going to have to pay for. I have not said that there is any lack of money, and I do not recognise that there should be a lack of money for our health projects in relation to the projections that are there. There is a room for manoeuvre, and we have proposed that there should be growth, and then there is a reserve that we have not committed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227135247	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227135247-2	So, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we have called the Minister in this Chamber to discuss the health reform being negotiated right now, where there is a massive insecurity about what kind of system it is that can be built up with the money that economists have, after all, seriously questioned whether there is a magic wand economy it has been called, think of a figure. It is a real insecurity which I think the Minister should take a little more seriously than spending time talking about foreign policy. There, by the way, the Minister's colleague is sitting in the back and will be able to talk about it in a moment. Now try to answer why, in the years to come, the money will not be reserved to ensure that the more elderly patients are treated, in other words, to meet all the ambitions we have for our health care, which the Minister admits will cost money. Why can't that money be set aside and reserved in the government's financial plans when you can reserve part of the room for tax relief? I just don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227135335	Thank you, and here you go to the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227135336	It is therefore the questioner's own party that will not guarantee it here, because when the questioner starts to include issues relating to tax policy, it is equally relevant to include issues relating to performance levels. I have just mentioned it before: it is huge sums that we have saved on the fact that we do not get as many foreigners to Denmark now as we did in 2015. Those are huge amounts. If we take the top level, compared to where we are today, we have saved gross more than 4 billion. kr., we can spend on something else; something is spent on development aid, but much of it is actually spent on welfare services in Denmark. When you take the answer that has been given, it says directly that the calculation of the demographic trait must be interpreted cautiously. And further: The compilation of the demographic move takes, among other things. no account was taken of possible improvements in productivity in the public sector. That's why you can't take it... sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227135424	There's a co-questioner, so there's a chance to come back. It's the co-questioner's turn now. Sir. Benny Engelbrecht, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227135432	I am glad that in this way I can help to support the fact that the Minister of Finance can also get rid of some of what he clearly needs to say. It would, of course, be nice if we could also focus a little on answering questions about health care and I am now sure that we will come back to that. I am perhaps a little surprised that the government has not shown a willingness to discuss what the framework actually needs to be worked on in the field of health in the coming years is. The reason why I am particularly puzzled about this is that in June 2015, the Left Party, for which the Minister for Finance is the vice-president, had no difficulty in indicating what the overall framework for health care should be in the period 2016-2020. It is a time horizon that is very similar to the one we are talking about now. And we are also standing immediately in front of a parliamentary election... it must come within a few months... so in many ways the situation today reminds us of the one that was in 2015. So why is it that either the government or the Left will not now say how much they expect to spend on health in the coming years?
ParlaMint-DK_20190227135546	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227135547	It has been shown in recent times that much more productivity has been achieved in health care. The health service today is much more productive and has more treatments than it had in 2015. And when we look at how we successfully, in terms of shorter waiting times and higher survival rates, have organized health care from 2015 until now, it is because we have gone in year by year and have prioritised some areas. Looking ahead, we can see that health care has some challenges that we need to act on: proximity, inequality, coherence. That is why we are proposing a reform which is, of course, about how we organise ourselves. However, year by year we also need to find out how much money is to be put into health care, and that is where we have been lifting every year since 2015. I would also like to be on the target today for us to lift every year forward in the field of health, but exactly how much depends on where you stand when you make the individual agreements or the individual financial law.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227135645	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227135646	So, in order to translate what the Minister of Finance said into more ordinary Danish, what will happen if the current government continues is the same thing that has been experienced so far, in other words, that there are significantly more patients. As I recall, there are 50,000 more patients in the health care system, and there are four more employees, not 4,000 or 400, but 4. In other words, what we can expect is just what our health professionals are concerned about, namely that they should run even more smoothly.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227135716	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227135718	I'll be happy to hire some more. I would, for example, like: I'd like to hire, let's say 1,000 nurses. I'd like that. I would also like to make room for this if it were the case that they could be recruited. The problem is, of course, with the type of promises that some have thrown around with and said that now they would like to hire 1,000 more nurses, that the nurses are not trained at the moment, that they are not available. That is why the government is going the opposite way. We are increasing the number of places in nursing schools. We'll make sure there's some more hands coming out to the hospitals. We are creating the opportunity to employ more people on a decentralised basis, and we will also, of course, ensure that the economy follows them around. What is the challenge today in many places is not that they lack payrolls; it is that they lack applicants for the posts they post.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227135801	Thank you, and then again Mrs Astrid Krag. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227135806	But let's try to raise this level once. I think it would be an excellent idea for the government to devote money to employing 1,000 more nurses. And I also think it would be an excellent idea if, in the proximity fund that the government wants to set up, which does not only contain new money, there were money for everything they say they want. After all, that money is well spent if we are to make the skills increase that has been talked about and train so many more nurses. I think it's 2,000 the government wants to train, even if it was ridiculous to hire 1,000 more. Well, why don't you try and take this discussion seriously? There's gonna be a lot of new assignments, new patients in the future. It's gonna cost money. That is what the Minister for Finance has said here today. Four years ago, the Finance Minister's own party wanted to point out how to reserve part of the economy for health, so that we and patients could be sure that the money was there. That is not what we want today, and we have not been able to get as much as a single answer from the Minister for Finance as to why that money will not be reserved. Instead, we need to hear about the willingness to pay and that it will come; but the patients can't use that much. It would have more value if you wanted to put the money aside.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227135906	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227135907	I know there's a waiting time for hearing treatments around here. This is among other things. Some of the inequalities in health care that we have to do something to correct, but I hope that everyone else has heard my answers. It may well be that Mrs Astrid Krag does not have, but I have thus seen the answer every single time to why it is that year by year we organise the economy so that year by year we decide how much extra is to be given. At the Kerne of this is that health care is currently under pressure and we have presented a reform that points to how to achieve more efficiency, greater proximity and greater equality into health care. We have pointed out how to ensure that more patients are treated close to their homes, thereby ensuring that it becomes a more decentralised healthcare system. I welcome the fact that there are currently constructive negotiations to agree on this, and I am then surprised that the Social Democrats will not be part of those who constructively create the health care of the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227140000	Thank you. Then we move on to a new question to the Minister for Finance. This is from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227140008	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227140011	The Minister acknowledges that the cancelled Ørsted sale of Radius will not have any impact on the plan to invest extensively in the green transition until 2025, cf. the article • Ørsted rejects green setbacks from the Radius blockade in EnergiWatch on 24 January 2019?
ParlaMint-DK_20190227140031	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227140033	I do not recognise the interpretation of the article and the interpretation of the words of the Director of Ørsted as there has been. 'Cause let's just take a look at it on a case-by-case basis. Ørsted's plan was to sell Radius and use the proceeds to implement their big plan to invest another three-digit billion in green conversion. When Radius is not sold and the billions that could have come out of Radius are not there, there are two options. Either you scale down the green transition or you find other sources of funding. Ørsted has chosen to say that they do not want to scale it down, because they want to maintain it. Does this mean that there are no consequences? No, not at all. Because that means going to a loan market or out and getting other capital partners who want to put money in. It will thus be a more expensive form of financing than that characterised by the sale of Radius. So the cancelled sale of Radius will have an impact on how Ørsted can make the green switch-over - what their financing costs will be by making the green switch-over. It would have been easier for Ørsted, it would have been cheaper, it would have been more effective in relation to the green conversion if Radius had been sold, so that a revenue could have been released that could have been invested in the green conversion.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227140209	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227140210	Thank you. However, it is only interesting that, as the Minister for Finance also refers to, offshore wind manager Martin Neubert clearly says when he is asked by Reuters, that is, what is mentioned in EnergiWatch on 24 January 2019: • This has no impact on our investment plan for 2025 of 200 billion. kr. and our goal of achieving 30 gigawatts of renewable energy by 2030. So it has no bearing on their investment plan. I just think this contradicts the scare picture painted by the Minister for Finance when the Minister for Finance said on 13 January to Ritzau that it means that Ørsted cannot sell Radius and raise capital for their green conversion. But Radius says it has no bearing on their funding plan. If you look at the course of Ørsted, you can see that it has only gone up, quite significantly even, since 11 January.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227140316	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227140317	I don't know a so-called offshore wind director, but I have a dialogue with Ørsted's director, and I have a dialogue with Ørsted's board of directors and the chairman of the board of directors of this area. And there it is quite clear that it will have an impact on Ørsted if they are going out to borrow the amount they had always expected would come as a revenue from the sale of Radius. It is so that when you look at Ørsted's loan financing, you can see that they are currently so geared that it can affect their rating if they are going out to borrow an amount that is correspondingly what is here. When a company gets a changed rating, it means a changed cost. This means a higher cost level to make the green transition. It is clear that it will have an impact. I am not going to comment on what various directors have said around here, but I can only note that a higher level of costs will mean a negative development in relation to the green transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227140412	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227140413	It must then be assumed that the Minister for Finance says that he who is the Director of the Marine Windsor in Ørsted cannot speak on behalf of Ørsted to Reuters when he says that it has no significance for their investment plan of 200 billion. kr. I think this whole green transition has been something that the Minister for Finance has taken up because, for other reasons, the Minister for Finance is angry about the cancelled Radius sale. Then I would like the Minister of Finance to comment on the fact that Ørsted's share price has risen significantly • 8 percentage points • in the time since the cancelled sale.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227140501	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227140502	I am not angry, I am just disappointed that the opportunities there were for creating synergies in our electricity distribution sector are not there and that the opportunities for Ørsted to have a more lenient funding for their green conversion are not there. After all, the matter has been discussed several times at conciliation meetings that the idea behind making a sale of Radius and the other elements that Ørsted put up for sale was to free up the capital to make the green conversion. It simply cannot come as a surprise to someone who has been sitting at the conciliation meetings that it was the thinking behind the idea that capital should be released from something that was not the core area to use in an area that was the core area.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227140552	Then we've come to the co-questioner. It's sir. Benny Engelbrecht. Then he gets one minute in return. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227140602	I think it has been an interesting dialogue to follow here between the main questioner and the Minister for Finance. In fact, I had some ideas about something I wanted to ask, but I am actually surprised that the Minister for Finance did not answer Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen's question, which I thought was very relevant. So the question is that it does not seem to have been the case that the market has taken down the trend that has then been in relation to Ørsted and the cancelled Radius sale, negatively in the way that it has affected the stock price downwards. On the contrary, the share price has been strengthened overall over a period from the beginning of January until now. I think it might be appropriate to have an answer to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen's question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227140658	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227140659	I would like to do so, but then we will have to change the rules, so I have longer speaking time, otherwise I will not be able to answer everything I was asked about. I also find it interesting that Ørsted's stock prices have gone up. I think that is very positive. It's gratifying. This makes Denmark and Danish society richer. But just when it happened, there was actually a dive. That's why the interesting thing isn't just what the stock price is, but why it is what it is. And I have to say that I think we should ask Ørsted's director and board of directors, stock analysts or others what the background is for this development. I'm not in a position where I have money that makes me follow Ørsted's stock price daily. So I can't say what's been the elements of getting to where you are. I welcome the fact that the stock price is higher. I think it's nice that the stock price is higher. A higher stock price on Ørsted means that the State's share will be worth more and that we are thus in an even better economic position than if the stock price had gone down. But I also noted that just when the announcement came out, it gave a dive in the stock price immediately after, because the market reacted negatively to the cancelled sale.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227140807	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227140808	It is true that there was a marginal fall immediately after the news, and very soon after that the course straightened up and is then a significantly higher place now. If the assumption is made that the market has expected that special requirements would be imposed on critical infrastructure owners, this could be precisely what the market is saying, that is to say that it had been expected that there would be specific requirements. Could that be a reasonable assumption, sir? Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-DK_20190227140841	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227140843	I think the questioner should go to a stockbroker with that question. Well, I do have a financial past or a past in a financial institution, but not at a level where I could analyze companies like Ørsted. So I'm not starting to wonder and guess now here. If you have to look at the stock prices, you have to look at it in all other equal light. So what has happened to other companies of a similar nature with a similar position and with a corresponding market exposure in different places around the world? I do not know if there can be a company so similar to Ørsted that one can make a definite one for a comparison of what happens to Ørsted without a cancelled sale and an Ørsted with a completed sale. I think that's hard to do. At least I see that immediately after the message came, there was a fall in the stock price. I welcome the fact that it has been corrected subsequently. I think it is good that it has been corrected, and I hope that it will just continue to increase, because the more it increases, the more valuable the Danish state will be in Ørsted's share.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227140946	Thank you. Then we move on to the final question to the Minister for Finance here. This is Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227140954	Then I would just like to finish and say that it is true that there was a minimal fall right after the cancelled sale. Now there has been a fairly marked increase of 8 percentage points in one month. The Minister for Finance knows very well that it is also important for a company what the stock price can do in relation to this black picture that the Minister for Finance is painting that now Ørsted can hardly finance anything. But the fact is that the company is worth significantly more today than a month ago, and the fact is that it is the director of the offshore wind area in Ørsted that it has no significance for their investment plan of 200 billion. kr. that the sale was cancelled. Everything else will be discussed in the next question. Here I just have to make it clear that the frightening picture painted by the Minister of Finance that the green transition would suffer simply does not last.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227141056	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227141057	Of course, it will have an impact on whether you have a two-digit billion amount of equity or you have a two-digit billion amount to borrow. I hope the questioner is aware that it is a big difference between the level of costs, whether you have the money yourself or whether you have to borrow a two-digit billion. I really hope that the questioner is aware that it means something to the cost. The higher the cost, the harder it is to win the tenders needed to make the green transition. So, of course, it has an impact on whether you have the money in equity or whether you have to go out and borrow it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227141139	Thank you. That is all it could be in paragraph 8 to the Minister for Finance. We shall now move on to paragraph 9, which is also for the Minister of Finance, and the two authors are the same two people.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227141151	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227141154	Does the Minister agree that it is best for companies responsible for critical infrastructure to be either under consumer-owned ownership or under public control where the public ownership is more than half of the company?
ParlaMint-DK_20190227141208	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227141209	I could easily see that a pension fund, for example. Danish nurses were the owner of critical infrastructure, without that being a problem for me. I do not agree with the fact that only these two small forms of ownership can own so-called critical infrastructure in Denmark. I can easily see that there may be other areas. In fact, I think the question is relevant in another area: what is it that is needed in order to have different types of ownership on critical infrastructure? There needs to be clear regulatory regulation because those who own critical infrastructure will typically be some who then sit on the monopoly situation and thus are the last link between an energy producer and a consumer, whether it is a business consumer or a private consumer. And how do we ensure that this monopoly situation is not abused? There we now have a really strong consumer-safe regulation, that is to say a regulation that ensures that there are limits to how much one can take in that monopoly situation and what returns can also be drawn from it. It depends on how much you invest, that is, what you shoot in. I think that's right. What is, in fact, the most important thing for me is that we ensure the right regulation. If someone then chooses to say that, despite the fact that there is that regulation that sets a limit on how much one can get out of one's investment, they still want to invest, for example. Because it is a long-term investment that fits well with pension funds such as Danish pension funds, I think it would be a good thing that it is also possible for them to have an investment in infrastructure in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227141353	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227141355	Whether regulation is now so waterproof or strong must become another issue because we have so little time here, but a very interesting discussion is at least that. When we and my co-author bring this up, it is because there was a lot of public debate in the wake of it that Radius sales were stopped, where the Minister for Finance was, I think, very harsh in his criticism and presented it so that it gave a picture that it had been completely open from the start, who could own Radius. That is why I would just like to ask the Minister: is it not true that I and other rapporteurs from other parties could have a legitimate expectation that it was quite likely that it could be bought by consumers?
ParlaMint-DK_20190227141445	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227141446	It is true that I have indicated that I expected one of the bidders, a qualified bidder, to be a consumer-owned company. But we have all the way through both the conciliation meetings where Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen attended, and at the conciliation meetings where others from the SF attended, clearly stated that we could not distribute in advance in such a way that we chose which company to own. You can't do that when you start an open bidding round. Then you can have an expectation of who you think will bid the most, but you can't say in advance that you make an open bidding round, but only a bider can win. And it's been open from the start that you make an open bidding round, there will be others bidding. Then we would have jointly established some criteria. So: We did not want foreign state-owned funds; we did not want companies that had been involved in money laundering; we did not want companies that had been involved in tax fraud and other things. And all the funds were so sorted out that in the end there was a bidding field left that met the criteria that had been discussed and set together in advance. It has been clear from the outset that we could not opt for an open bidding round in advance and say that everyone can bid, but only one can buy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227141603	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227141604	I now think that the Minister for Finance will come to me a little in relation to the discussion that has been going on, namely whether there was an expectation that it might end up being, for example. a consumer-owned company that would sit there, but the Minister for Finance only came to me in part to say that it is true that there was an expectation that one of the bidders could be a consumer-owned company. But I just think, and that is why I am asking this question, that there has been so much public discussion about that process, and then I just ask the Minister for Finance again: is it not true that the Minister for Finance was so convinced that not just a bider, but the final buyer would be a consumer-owned company, that it was fairly the opinion that I was left with as rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20190227141649	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227141650	I cannot in any way know what the questioner was left with. I can only repeat what we have gone through on slides and orally at various meetings, both meetings where the questioner was present and meetings where others from the SF were present. It was a review in which we openly began by saying: here is a bid. We expect one of the bidders to be a consumer-owned company, but we cannot say in advance who offers the most. When we make an open bidding round, we cannot say in advance that only one can win, because if one did so it would be contrary to the whole thinking behind an open bidding round. So we set up criteria: who would we opt out of? It was therefore an active opt-out of some types of company because we did not want them to own critical infrastructure. But it also said that those who were then in categories other than those we had presented could bid. And there I have never at any time indicated that I could choose who should bid; I could say who I expected to be a bider, and I also expected that there would be a consumer-owned company among the bidders. But we cannot say in advance: everyone must bid, only one must win.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227141807	We're going to the co-questioner, sir. Benny Engelbrecht, who now has the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227141813	Thank you, President. I would actually like to return to the principle of the original question, i.e. whether it is appropriate to have the approach that might apply to Ørsted, Radius and other companies dealing with critical infrastructure, that you either have public ownership, where more than half of the company is in public hands, or, in the alternative, that it is a consumer ownership. Is this a consideration, a view that the government will take forward when considering possible sales rounds and bidding rounds in relation to companies that may have to deal with critical infrastructure?
ParlaMint-DK_20190227141908	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227141909	When you live in an open Europe, as we have fortunately done since the single market came into being in 1992, there is an opportunity for you to invest across national borders. Indeed, there are a great many Danish pension funds, capital funds, asset managers and private companies that have invested in other European countries also in critical infrastructure. And when we expect that it is possible for Danish pension funds to invest out of the country, we must also have openness to foreign pension funds being able to invest in Denmark. Otherwise, the open society that has given us the prosperity that we have today will stop. This means that the government is open, that I am open, that others can bid if they comply with the very strict criteria of what is required, of accountability, of regulation, of compliance with international law in relation to tax fraud, money laundering and other matters, before offering it. But I see no problem in the fact that Danish pension funds own critical infrastructure, neither Danish nor foreign critical infrastructure. I see Danish pension funds as being enormously responsible owners who think long-term on behalf of their savers. And if you agree with that, i.e. that pension funds are responsible owners who need long-term investment, investment in infrastructure is actually one of the things that fits very well with the pension funds' return profile.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227142046	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227142047	Now that is the case, I would say to the Minister of Finance that there are examples of critical infrastructure in companies where the state accounts for more than half of the ownership, and there are still pension companies that have invested, let us just take Ørsted as an example. So it is not the case, for example, that the criteria adopted by the Social Democrat Party, which would be reasonable in terms of public ownership when it comes to critical infrastructure, exclude that there may also be Danish pension companies that are co-investors.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227142125	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227142126	No, not at all. And so far along the way there was also, I think, the prospect that Danish pension funds in some form would have been co-owners of Radius if the sale had been carried out. What is the discussion here is: Should one rule out a pension fund having a 51 per cent majority shareholding in an infrastructure company in Denmark? I don't think so. In fact, I think that pension funds are an example of responsible capital that thinks long-term. And one of the things I see there is synergy in is that they invest in infrastructure. And that's why I don't share that concern about whether pension funds own 49 or 51 percent. of the infrastructure. I see them as some who take up the long-term view both in the public interest and, of course, also in the interest of their savers.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227142220	The last question goes to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227142224	Thank you. I hope that the Minister for Finance agrees with me that we, the SF, have made it very clear from the outset what concerns we had and what ownership of Radius we would like to see. That is why I would also like to have the Minister of Finance's assessment, in relation to all the debate that has taken place, if it is not true that the SF's wish was that there should be a veto in the conciliation circle and that the agreement was that it should at least be returned to the conciliation circle in relation to the final buyer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227142303	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227142304	In fact, the conversion of DONG into Ørsted decided what is really in the conciliation circle and what is not in the conciliation circle. It was agreed what is so critical infrastructure that the conciliation circle has a veto. And there was the sale of Radius not part of what was agreed. Now I'm only referring because I wasn't in the room because I wasn't part of the negotiations. It was with sir. Bjarne Corydon, Minister for Finance, said that the agreement was reached, and that is why I can only read in the papers what was specifically agreed, not what considerations have been made along the way, because that was not part of it. But quite specifically, there was no agreement on the right of veto for the conciliation board on the sale of Radius. What was agreed was that there was a right of veto in some other areas. It was agreed that there was something to be done for state ownership, but no right of veto had been agreed at Radius.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227142405	Thank you to the Minister for Finance, thank you to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen Minister for Finance did not answer my question, I would like to point out). That has been noted, but the President cannot do anything about it. The Minister for Finance is now allowed to discuss with the President? ) No, you can't. Minister of Finance OK). I understand what you're saying. The debate can continue in the sidelines if it is possible to get a seat out there. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 10 to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, and the questioner is Mr. Christian Langballe from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227142439	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227142442	Thank you. Will the government take the initiative that Denmark withdraws from the convention on the limitation of statelessness, so that in Denmark we can withdraw citizenship from the Syrian warriors, even if they only have Danish citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20190227142455	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227142457	Let me begin by stressing that foreign fighters are people who have turned their backs on Denmark, and they have done so by going to war against democracy and freedom, in short, all that we stand for in Denmark. These are people who in no way have my sympathy and who are also not wanted here in Denmark. I know the questioner agrees with me on that. Having said that, it is also a complex problem and there are no perfect or easy solutions in this area. As far as the withdrawal of citizenship is concerned, we already have the possibility of denying the right of birth by judgment if a person is convicted of, among other things, the death penalty. terrorism or membership of a terrorist organisation. We must make full use of that opportunity. It is, by the way, a provision that has already been used a handful of times. Today it is the case that a waiver can only be made if the person concerned does not thereby become a stateless person. Our obligations under the stateless convention mean that in such cases we cannot make a person stateless by taking away Danish citizenship. This is the same obligation as is laid down in the 1997 Council of Europe Convention on National Rights, which Denmark has also acceded to and ratified. After all, we are also obliged to do so under the European Convention on Human Rights, where it is immediately considered that, on the basis of the Convention, it would be contrary to the Convention if a person were to be deprived of his or her nationality in a case where he or she does not have the nationality of another country or is entitled to do so. Now I know that we will very soon have a consultation where this is also a small element, but also a broader consultation on foreign fighters and their future. That is why we also have a good opportunity to discuss the subject at that time.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227142733	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227142734	It seemed to me that would be the answer I would get, because that is the answer I have usually received. Now I'm gonna try to pull up the lines on this case. These people are not just traitors to Denmark and to the Danes and to what Denmark stands for. They have also committed monstrous acts that tangle crimes against humanity. They have committed the most abominable crimes you can even think of. In this way, they have renounced every right to Denmark, and I therefore believe that it would be appropriate for the government, and indeed more broadly Europe, to begin to decide whether we will continue to tolerate this fanaticism which is in a mess in Europe and which threatens everything we stand for all the legal principles that we hold dear, they have trampled underfoot their sinister deeds. That is why I would just like to ask the Minister and the government to reconsider their relationship with these conventions, which I think are blocking ordinary due diligence and defence for Denmark and for what Denmark represents.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227142913	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227142914	I fully agree that these are disgusting people we are talking about and they are absolutely undesirable in Denmark. I also fully agree with the questioner that we also lack a discussion at European level on how to resolve the specific situation in which the countries are likely to be brought before long, because we can see that this is a debate that will soon fill all European countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227142944	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227142945	I mean, these people are guilty, according to Chapter 12, of treason, terror and all that is the worst of the worst and more. That is why I think it would be fair to use the system that we already have and to disqualify them from citizenship, and then to say that if they lose their citizenship and become stateless, that is not something that concerns us, and then they should be expelled from the country forever.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227143022	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227143023	It then leaves the question of where to go, sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227143030	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227143031	We could take the initiative of judging them in absentia so that they could never enter the country. I agree that the best thing would of course be to have them convicted down there, where they are, and where they have committed their deeds, and where all the effects of their crimes can already be documented, instead of us bringing them home to Denmark, which we under no one I am just saying that these people are so dangerous to our country and to the Danes that I will do everything I can to ensure that they do not come within the country's borders.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227143111	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227143112	As I said, I agree 100% that these are disgusting people we are talking about here and that they have trampled underfoot all the values of freedom that they otherwise had every opportunity to enjoy in a free and peaceful society such as the Danish one.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227143135	Thank you. There are no more options in question 10. We move on to Question 11, and it is also to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, and the questioner is Mrs Pernille Bendixen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227143146	Here you go to Mrs Pernille Bendixen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227143149	Thank you. What is the Minister's view of several organisations saying that integration benefits are an obstacle to integration, and does the Minister think that integration went better under the previous government, where migrant and refugee families had a greater amount of money available?
ParlaMint-DK_20190227143204	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227143205	I could actually choose just to say no. After all, the former S-led government abolished the start-up aid back in 2011, with the result that working for the people who came here was hardly worthwhile. It simply sent out a signal that in Denmark you could just live on transfer income year after year. Social democracy then went to elections in 2011 to abolish what they called poverty benefits. I think it's a very strange concept. And, as far as I can see, that is also what they are going to vote for now, at least to set up after-election grants for refugees, if they were going to win, even if it is sauced into foggy promises of service commission, and I do not know what, to try to avoid any concrete debate. We then reinstated the so-called integration benefit when we joined in 2015, which was, of course, an absolutely crucial step to support a development where fewer people come here, but also, of course, that if you come here, you must contribute and not just park on transfer income. Frankly, I must say that I am both pleased and proud that we did. In my opinion, work is indeed the very best way into Danish society, but there is also something of principle in that one must of course contribute to Danish society if one can. It must be worthwhile to work, and I believe that the benefits of integration certainly help to ensure that. We can also see that it works. We have brought the number of asylum seekers to Denmark significantly down from just over 21,000 in 2016 to 3,500 in 2018, but we can also see that those who have actually come to Denmark are working much more now than they did in the past. Because if we look back to 2015, it was 21% who worked, and now it is 45% who work when they have been in Denmark for 3 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227143437	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227143439	What the Minister is now listing, we knew somewhere well. This report has come into being, precisely during the course of financial law negotiations, over a period of two months. I might as well be honest and say that I see it as pure propaganda against the policy pursued and against the work being done here in the Folketing. It's also called, "We're gonna crush their dreams." But it's just that the dream shouldn't be in Denmark. The dream must be to return home and help home in your homeland. Does the Minister also consider it to be such a propaganda, in other words a counter-working of what we are doing here in the Folketing of legal work?
ParlaMint-DK_20190227143530	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227143532	I can at least say that I completely disagree if the conclusion is that newcomers should be given higher benefits and that they should therefore be better able to become part of Danish society. I simply do not think so. I am completely in line with Mrs Pernille Bendixen; it must pay off to work. But frankly, there is also something about giving before you can enjoy. And being newcomer and then just getting exactly the same thing as Danes who have helped create this society, and whose parents and grandparents have also helped to build the Danish society and create the country that we have now, I think there is something fundamentally wrong in it. So I think what we did together at the time was quite right.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227143624	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227143625	Yes, fortunately, we agree on that. But the volunteers who make the answers to this report then point out that they sometimes feel, not pressured, but that they have these thoughts that it's such a pity for these people, so they really wanted to pay for something. It could be a trip to the hospital or some interpreting assistance or something, and of course they shouldn't. But do we really have any guarantees that this will not happen anyway?
ParlaMint-DK_20190227143653	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227143654	I simply do not have the evidence to confirm or deny this, but I can say that it seems to me that the best way out of being on a low transfer income is to get a job, and that is what is meant to be. That's how short it can actually be said. I believe that as a refugee in Denmark you have an obligation to work and support yourself and yours and to do so as long as you are here. But, of course, you also have an obligation to return home on the day of peace in your homeland again and rebuild it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227143727	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for today's work. And thank you to Mrs Pernille Bendixen. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 12, and that is the start of a series of questions to the Minister for Health. Before we get started, I would like to inform you that the Minister for Health must devote one hour to us, but that we do not have the right to take up her time more. And that means that we can really find ourselves in a situation where the 13-14 questions that are actually addressed to the Minister for Health cannot be answered today. But then they'll be reinstated next time. Then, of course, you can be taken off the table, and then, formally, you have to raise them again. It is just to say that there are a number of questioners who are probably sitting at their desks waiting eagerly to be allowed to enter into dialogue with the Minister for Health, but who probably do not do so today. It's more to prepare them for it. And you can count backwards, because normally we can reach between five and six questions per hour, depending on whether it is a single question or whether it is a double question when there are two questions, and that is one of the questions we are going to have to deal with today. Now we have warned, and I hope it will not destroy all day for all those colleagues who have been looking forward to this opportunity for dialogue. The first is Question 12. It is the Minister for Health who has to answer, and the questioner is Mr. Orla Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227143904	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227143907	Thank you for that, President. Can the Minister guarantee that the Left's health proposal will not remove the basis for the hospital service of Thy and Mors in Thisted, and how does the Minister see the task lifted by a narrower operating basis with 21 autonomous hospital units?
ParlaMint-DK_20190227143928	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227143930	Thank you. Allow me to take for granted that reference is made to the government's health issue, so we are on the same side in relation to the response. All citizens must be safe in that they can get the necessary help when they are suffering from acute illness or an accident, and this also applies, of course, to residents of Thy and Mors. Therefore, I would also like to start by stressing, as I have done in relation to similar questions from some of the honourable Members of the questioner and in relation to other hospitals in the country, that the government's proposals for health reform do not alter the current hospital structure. The current structure with 21 emergency hospitals with common emergency receptions follows, among other things: of the 2007 Emergency Recommendations of the Danish Health Authority. Here it was recommended that a population base of 200,000-400,000 inhabitants would be necessary to ensure the necessary expertise and robustness, but it also emerged at that time that particularly sparsely populated areas on islands or with island-like geography may require solutions with a smaller population base. This also means that we now have three so-called modified emergency receptions, one of which is in Thisted. With our proposal for health reform, the government wants to establish 21 health communities around the 21 emergency hospitals in order to ensure more closeness and coherence in action. So this means that we're starting from all 21, including the 3, which has this island status or modified emergency reception status. Instead of the current regions, the government will set up five new health services to ensure a strong health professional operation of the hospitals and also continue the results with enhanced specialisation and cooperation that we know from the hospital structure today. This also means that in the future it will be up to the new health services to give priority to hospital operations and also to ensure the cooperation between different hospitals, as we, among others, have. Knowing it today from the collaboration between Aalborg University Hospital and Aalborg University Hospital, Thisted, and the cooperation there is, it is not planned to change. It must be ensured, on the basis of the annual development plan, that we also have such a more national driving force in terms of developing healthcare throughout the country and also coordinating the cross-cutting solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227144156	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227144157	When I allow myself to take an interest in the hospital in Thisted, this is because the hospital in Thisted was just born with a population base of about 90,000 inhabitants. Of course, this must necessarily be a hospital which has less good opportunities to deal with the changing conditions that a health service must constantly be in replacements and that new technology and new medical training should be followed, etc. This is the problem I would like the Minister to tell the people how she imagines to be solved. How do you imagine that a hospital, which covers only an area of 90,000 inhabitants, will do just as well as one that has 400 000 when they are not organically connected and under the same priority? The present Regional Councils have the opportunity to give priority and say: we want that to be the situation. It is not possible to cover up when you have a modified hospital, as the Minister says. That is the problem I would like the Minister to answer: does 90,000 people as a basis give as robust a hospital as one with 250,000 or 400 000 as a basis?
ParlaMint-DK_20190227144322	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227144323	No, that is the reason why this special island status has been created for the hospital in Thisted, for the hospital in Nykøbing Falster and for the hospital in Bornholm in Rønne. This is because we are taking special account of some of the particular concerns we do not change with the reform of health. They will also be forward-looking. I also have to say again to the questioner that there is no question of there being 21 autonomous units. The hospital in Thisted will also be in the health management of North Jutland, which will be able to ensure the cooperation that we know today for the hospital Aalborg University Hospital, which has a strong collaboration with both the hospital in Hjørring and the hospital in Thisted. It is not intended to change that. Generally speaking, the government's health reform does not intend to change the current hospital structure, and therefore there is no need to worry about Thisted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227144411	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227144412	If I were thybo, I would still be a little worried, because what the Minister does rule out is that the Thybos themselves have an influence on the hospital system that they should have. Yes, they can choose a new government, and I hope they will soon, but that is another discussion. But if you are not satisfied with the way in which a region structures the hospital offer, you can change the elected representatives and ask for a new policy in this area. After all, this will not be possible with some non-elected elements, an administration that sits and has to make those priorities. It becomes opaque for the population who must live with the hospital service that the Minister is thinking of people in the thinner populated areas. That is the problem that I understand you are worried about in many places. As far as autonomy is concerned, I do not know what it is like, because if it is to be 21 units that are not connected, how will the Minister ensure coherence anyway?
ParlaMint-DK_20190227144509	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227144510	I think the questioner is mixing up different things. In other words, the 21 health communities have to bridge the gap between what is happening in the municipality, what is happening in your own doctor and what is happening in the hospital, whether it is in the somatics or the psychiatry. It is because there are too many patients who experience that health offers have moved too far away, so we need to have more proximity in our healthcare system. But there are also too many patients who experience that there is too little connection. Therefore, health communities become a binding framework for the cooperation between the municipality, the hospital and one's own doctor. Both Thisted Municipality and Morsø Municipality will be represented in the political superstructure with both the mayors and the health committee chairmen and thus have a direct popular anchoring. But at the same time, the administration in North Jutland is so tied up.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227144552	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227144553	I didn't want to be comforted. They are good people who are mayors in both places, but it is not the mayors' primary task to take an interest in how a health care system develops. A health care system is developing so rapidly and so complex that it is hopeless that a mayor, alongside all the other tasks of a mayor, must ensure that he is up to date in relation to how to ensure that the local hospital in question continues to have the necessary preparedness for the citizens to be served.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227144631	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227144632	After all, it is not the health community that operates the hospital, and that is where the questioner goes wrong in the city. It's in health care. Therefore, there will continue to be a strong collaboration between Aalborg University Hospital and the Hospital in Thisted. It can crystallise itself in dividing positions, as we know it today, and it is, of course, a strong cooperation that really needs to be continued. Where the mayors and health committee chairmen from the municipalities are to play a greater role is in the health community. It is in relation to building a bridge between the hospital, the psychiatrist, the municipality and your own doctor, and that's because you're not just a patient. You're a citizen, too. And as a citizen, you are deeply dependent that when you become a patient, there is a connection between what happens in the hospital and what happens in the care of the elderly, or what happens in the area of children and school, if it is a young person with a mental illness. That is why we need health communities in order to have more closeness and coherence in our health provision.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227144719	Thank you. We move on to Question 13, which is also addressed to the Minister for Health, and the questioner is Mr. Jan Erik Messmann from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227144727	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227144730	Thank you. How will the Minister ensure that, for example, a Somali trained in a medical faculty in the city of Oradea, Romania, does not automatically obtain authorisation as a doctor in a Danish hospital?
ParlaMint-DK_20190227144747	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227144748	Thank you for the question, which I suppose should be seen a little in the light of the Danish Radio documentary on foreign doctors. First of all, I would like to stress that all doctors in the Danish healthcare system must of course have both the necessary professional and linguistic skills to ensure good patient care, and this also applies to foreign doctors. The safety of the professional level is partly ensured by authorization, but I also have to stress that obtaining a certificate is not a guarantee of the doctor's professional level. Therefore, it will always be the employer who has a responsibility to ensure that the doctor has the necessary skills. Be it a Danish doctor, a Danish qualified doctor or a foreign doctor, and that also applies regardless of the rules the doctor has obtained approval for. Then the person does not have the professional or linguistic skills he or she must have, so he or she has to look at whether or not the employment relationship has to be changed. This is the case, whether it is a Danish qualified doctor or a foreign qualified doctor. I also assume that when the questioner asks about a Somali, reference is made to a Somali citizen. To answer that part of the question, I can state that a Somali citizen will not be covered by the recognition directive. In other words, a Somali citizen will not be automatically recognised on the basis of an EU education, whether it is from Romania or elsewhere. On the other hand, an application for authorisation for a Somali national who has been trained in a Member State of the European Union must be dealt with in accordance with the rules applicable to third-country nationals, which means, inter alia, that the doctor must have approved his/her training, must carry out a language test and must also carry out professional examinations and have an evaluation appointment before he/she can be employed in Denmark. So you cannot just enter a post immediately if you are a Somali citizen, even if you are educated in Romania.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227144949	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227144950	Concerning the Somalian mentioned, that is just what we heard in the three programmes • The foreign doctors on Danmarks Radio. Does the Minister consider it appropriate that foreign doctors, for example, should be trained? in Ukraine has in some cases been able to continue as trainees after they have failed the professional examination and that trainees in peak situations have had patient contact on their own without an accompanying doctor?
ParlaMint-DK_20190227145021	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227145022	I think that when the questioner asks, as the questioner does, also in relation to the broadcast, it is because the doctor in question, I think, is referred to by the questioner, was a Danish citizen who certainly had Somali background and who had an education from Romania. This is not a Somali citizen. In this case, therefore, there is a Danish citizen. There I can inform the questioner that the Board of Patient Safety decided in March 2018 to temporarily restrict the doctor's activities, which means that the doctor may only work under the supervision of a doctor with the right to self-service and that the board must approve the supervision and supervision agreement. The doctor must therefore only work in a place where the Patient Safety Agency has approved the appointment and the decision is valid until further notice. During the period during which the board informed the case, from July 2017 to March 2018, the doctor has been subject to a work ban.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227145118	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227145119	Now it was not quite the same doctor, for it was mentioned here in relation to Ukraine. But let it be that. Is the Minister satisfied that EU rules weigh more heavily than the consideration for Danish patients in these cases?
ParlaMint-DK_20190227145135	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227145137	As I said at the outset, the employer has a responsibility. The employer has a responsibility, whether it is a Danish doctor, a Danish qualified doctor, a foreign qualified doctor, or whether it is a qualified doctor in EU countries. This means that if the employer finds that the doctor does not have the skills to have, be it professionally, be it linguisticly, then as an employer one has a responsibility either to change the employment relationship or to put an end to the employment relationship. What really puzzles me most is that we saw examples that the employer did not, in such a way, lift the employer's responsibility and dealt with a situation where there was a doctor who did not technically meet the requirements. And that must be tackled as an employer, no matter where the doctor comes from.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227145221	When we have such a tight agenda, I would like to appeal to us to try to keep time, because otherwise we will be in-lawing other colleagues who probably have just as important questions. That is for both the Minister and the questioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227145232	The last is: how will the Minister work to ensure that foreign doctors are not a danger to Danish patients in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20190227145241	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227145242	From the government's point of view, as recently as week 7, we have submitted a legislative proposal in consultation to tighten up the linguistic skills and competences that doctors must have. We also stress the responsibility of the regions as appointing authority to shoulder the responsibility they already have today, namely that if a doctor does not have the linguistic or professional skills that he or she must have, it is obvious that this must be addressed so that the doctor is not a risk to patient safety. And I think that, in view of the documentary to which the honourable Member refers, there is still room for improvement in relation to lifting it for the benefit of patients throughout the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227145316	Thank you, sir. Jan Erik Messmann, and thank the Minister. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 14, which is also for the Minister of Health, and the questioner is Mr. Simon Kollerup of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227145325	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227145329	Thank you. The question is: can the Minister guarantee that the paramedic car in Thisted, which the citizens of the local area find very secure in having, is protected, just as the Minister has protected the special emergency preparedness in the minister's own circle at Nordals?
ParlaMint-DK_20190227145344	Thank you for the question. All citizens must be confident that they will receive the necessary help if they are suffering from acute illness or an accident, and this also applies, of course, to the citizens of Thisted. It is in the same way that I have previously replied to some of the questioner's colleagues on situations around Nordals, about Hjørring and other things that we have also discussed in this Chamber on paragraph 20 questions. That is why I can also stress what I said earlier, which is also clear from the health reform, namely that the government expects that the tools placed in place will not be moved in the years to come so that there will be no deterioration in coverage. So the government has no plans to close down or move emergency preparedness in Thisted, because the government is giving priority to the security of citizens in the emergency area. That was among other things. also why, together with the Danish People's Party in connection with the 2018 Finance Act, we also prioritised funding for a fourth emergency medical helicopter in the northern part of the country, which I know also benefits the citizens of Thisted area. The emergency area is a key part of the government's approach to health reform, and this is an area in which we do not think the regions have delivered well enough. It is also an area where we see very large geographical differences, both in response times, i.e. how fast the ambulance arrives, but also, in terms of how we can ensure an even more finely masked emergency response than what we have today. This is also why, with the reform of health, the government is preparing to establish 10-15 additional emergency preparednesss in the form of emergency medical cars, emergency cars or ambulances in those areas where we are experiencing today that there is not enough coverage and where, unfortunately, we see too much variation in response times across the country. In addition, we want to create a nationwide medical watch number for immediate visitation and treatment, so that we can get the same high quality of emergency preparedness, no matter where in the country you live. So, yes, I can repeat what I have also said to some of the honourable Members of the questioner in relation to other emergency situations: the government assumes that there will be no relocations or deterioration of emergency preparedness in the coming years. We want to strengthen it with the reform of health.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227145548	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227145549	Yes, but now I am asking a little on the basis of the case from Nordals, where the Minister himself has been elected and where you actually go in as a minister and guarantee that this emergency car will be present. It is, after all, the same guarantee that I am calling for that we can give the citizens of Thisted, where it is the paramedic car that is at stake. Then the Minister says that the government does not assume that there will be changes; it does not expect any changes to be made. But I guess the government's health reform is creating maximum uncertainty about the future location of these parts of our emergency preparedness. The locations today have been made on the basis of decisions by people with local knowledge where demography and other local conditions can be involved, and therefore we have a coverage that we are safe and happy about in Thisted right now. I am worried that if you move this decision-making power or decision over to those who are not politically elected and who are sitting far away from Thy and looking at whether this car can now respond, we risk losing it. That is why I say that the government's health reform is so loosely written that it creates maximum insecurity in Thy. And that is just why I am asking today that the Minister can give the same guarantee to the citizens of Thy that she gave to the citizens of Nordals, namely that of course the government guarantees that the paramedic car stays in Thisted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227145724	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227145726	I have answered exactly the same question to Mr. Benny Engelbrecht, who has asked about the emergency car at Nordals, whom I have replied to the questioner's colleague about the emergency medical car in Lemvig, which I have answered about the emergency car in Hjørring. The government's health reform requires that there are no changes and relocations so that there is no deterioration in emergency preparedness. If I cannot say what is happening in the near future, it is because the regions have repeatedly reduced emergency preparedness, including in North Jutland. And our reform will not be fully effective until 2021, which is why it will be a matter of agreement with the regions in the coming years if there is no deterioration. And there I have to say that we have unfortunately also seen in the North Jutland Region that emergency response has been repeatedly reduced, and that is really sad. I actually find that those who are campaigning intimidating the citizens are the Social Democrats, who will not be concerned that the reform of health is leading to a strengthening, not a deterioration in emergency preparedness in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227145824	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227145825	But the Minister is absolutely right. This is the Government's health reform when the Minister was visiting Nordals, she was quoted in the JydskeVest Coast's website edition for the Sønderborg region, where she says much more clearly than what is being said here today: The preparedness we know today also continues after the health reform. This applies to the emergency car, as well as emergency response in the rest of Denmark. Can the minister guarantee that this paramedic car stays in Thisted? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20190227145904	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227145905	I can answer quite the same thing as I have answered in other contexts, namely that the government in such a way assumes that there will be no relocation of the emergency services that we know today. We just cannot guarantee that Regional Council President Ulla Astman in North Jutland will not make any deterioration until 2021 when we take over. However, we are assuming that there will be no changes and relocations which could lead to deterioration, and this is the basis for the reform of health, namely that there should be no deterioration, but improvements. That is why we are also allocating money to deploy 10-15 additional emergency medical and emergency vehicles across the country. And if we look at the North Jutland Region, it is precisely an area in which the citizens actually experience that the ambulance arrives in a less timely state than it does elsewhere in the country. I think that's a problem, but I understand that. Simon Kollerup does not think is a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227145952	The questioner, last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227145954	Stop being polemical like that and stop shooting the regions in front of them. Today we are discussing with the government because the government has presented a health issue. The government must answer for this, and I therefore ask the government's representative, who is the minister: is the government today in a position to guarantee that in the health issue the government has put forward there remains a paramedic car in Thisted? I understand that you can guarantee this at Nordals when you are elected there and are on your way to campaigning, but can you also guarantee it up in Thy? That is just what I would like an answer to, not a question of who is responsible in the intervening period. But is there a guarantee in the government's health reform for that paramedic car? Because if you do not answer more clearly, I have to say that it does not do so, and that creates insecurity.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227150046	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227150047	Those who create insecurity are the Social Democracy car-by-car driving emergency preparedness around Denmark, despite the fact that we in the government say clearly and clearly in our health reform that we will not see any deterioration in emergency preparedness in the coming years, and that in fact, on top of the preparedness we have today, we are allocating money to enable us to deploy 10-15 additional tools. And we do that because there is too much geographical difference between how fast the ambulances arrive. Take Region Nordjylland, it is only 91 per cent. by the ambulances arriving within 15 minutes. In the Central Jutland Region it is more than 96 per cent. by the ambulances arriving within 15 minutes. Do I think it is fair to the citizens of North Jutland that because they live in the North Jutland Region, where they have chosen a lower level of service, it is quite okay when we know that the minutes count? No, I don't think so. Therefore, we believe that there should be national standards of service when it comes to emergency preparedness, so you are as well covered in the Region of North Jutland, be it in Thisted, be it in Hjørring as you are elsewhere in the country. And that is what the government's health reform is all about: strengthening emergency preparedness in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227150149	Thank you for that, both to the questioner and to the Minister for Health. Then we have a communication, that is to say, that Question No 1 will be answered in writing. 16, by Mr. Orla Hav, the author of the question has asked me to receive a written reply and that Question No. 24, by Mr. Jan Erik Messmann is out. And the reason I mention it is, of course, that there are people asking questions who do not know if they will bring their questions to the Minister for Health. At any rate, it offers two additional options now. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 15 to the Minister for Health, and the questioner is Mr. Troels Ravn.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227150242	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227150245	Thank you. Can the Minister guarantee that the paramedic ambulance in Skærbæk and the ambulances in Toftlund, Løgumkloster and Tønder, which the citizens of the local area find very secure in having, will not be closed down, just as the Minister has protected the special emergency preparedness in the minister's own circle at Nordals?
ParlaMint-DK_20190227150305	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227150307	Thank you for the question, which is a bit a repeat of the question we have just had, now just with focus on Skærbæk, Toftlund, Løgumkloster and Tønder. And these are just as important emergency preparedness as that in Thisted we have just discussed, that in Nordals, that in Lemvig, that in Hjørring and some of the other places we will also be discussing today. That is why my answer will be the same as it has been to the other questions. I can therefore also begin by stressing that, of course, the inhabitants of the various regions of the Region of Southern Denmark, which are mentioned in the question, must find that they can also be confident that they will receive the necessary help if they are suffering from acute illness or an accident. That is why I can only stress what I have already said several times, namely that it is clear from the health reform that the government expects that the tools placed in place will not be moved in the coming years, so that there will be no deterioration in coverage, and that we can be confident that the emergency response we have today, as we know, will also be forward-looking. But what you can be comforted about is that as a government we have an ambition to strengthen emergency preparedness in Denmark. We have a desire to give priority to citizens' safety in the emergency area, and this also means that, through the proximity fund, we are going to establish 10-15 additional emergency preparedness in the form of emergency cars and emergency medical vehicles and ambulances in those areas of the country where there are special needs and where there is also a need to improve response times. Because unfortunately we can see that there is a very large geographical variation today in how well the country is covered in the emergency response area. Unfortunately, we also see that there are places where we have definite black holes. I also know that the questioner himself focuses on some of those who are in the Region of Southern Denmark, and in relation to the Region of Southern Denmark, it can only be a pleasure that the Regional Council has also been aware of this and has now allocated additional funds to some of the areas that have been too poorly covered in the Region of Southern Denmark. So the discussion we have here has also made it clear that we are already starting to focus on it. This does not alter the government's ambition to put further upstairs, so we will have an even stronger emergency response in Denmark, and that is why, with the health reform, we are also proposing to place 10-15 additional emergency response units, so that we strengthen emergency response.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227150516	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227150518	Thank you for your answer. I would like to acknowledge that the Minister has raised an important issue in his constituency. In other words, emergency services, ambulances and response times are really, really important issues, which are about general security. This is core welfare, too, in our rural areas, we need to be sure that the ambulances come within reasonable response times. In fact, it is not much more than a year ago that I was standing here asking the Minister about response times in postal numbers rather than in municipalities. And it is precisely there that we can be pleased that we have taken the criticism to heart in the Southern Denmark region, in other words the politicians there. I don't have to take credit for everything, not at all. However, we have had a debate about how important it is that we have reasonable response times and that those response times should be calculated on postal numbers, and this has actually been taken into account. And that is why this change is a good example of how it matters when people and politicians are close to each other and that it matters when, in this case, the people can hold regional politicians to account for their actions. This is core welfare, it's security. And that is why I would like the Minister, in the same way as at home in the Minister's own constituency, Nordals, to have guaranteed and protected this preparedness, so that the Minister will be able to do the same elsewhere in South and South Jutland, where we have experienced challenges with our preparedness and with response times. It would be right and proper not only to say that we expect no changes to be made, but that we can guarantee it in the same way as we can in our own constituency.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227150707	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227150708	I have answered quite the same with regard to the emergency car at Nordals, which was also a question here in the Parliamentary Chamber, and it was to the honourable Member of the questioner who I have answered in relation to the other emergency services we have been around in this Chamber. And the answer is that I cannot guarantee that the regions will not make any deterioration in the years to come. I have also answered that in relation to the emergency car at Nordals, where it is the Regional Council which will have to decide this spring whether to extend the agreement. And that is why the government stands by what we have written, namely that we expect the regions to also be involved in such an agreement, so that there are no relocations, so that there are no deteriorations, and so that the discussion we want on the reform of health can be: how can we best place 10-15 additional emergency preparednesss in Denmark, so that we get even better coverage than what we know today? But we will not change the emergency response we know today in terms of location. And this applies both to Skærbæk and toftlund, which this question is about, and to the other places we've been around.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227150807	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227150808	That is perfectly understandable, and I also think it is right and proper that the Minister cannot guarantee what is happening around the regions. This isn't the ball street I'm talking about at all. But the Minister can then deal with what the Minister has to do with. And that is precisely about the reform of health or proposals for the reform of health, that is to say, rather than just writing that you do not expect anything, you could be much more precise. And now that the Minister has moved along that road and guarantees it at home in his own constituency, it would be right and proper for the same region, in Tønder, Toftlund and Skærbæk, to guarantee that there is the readiness that exists today. As I mentioned in my introduction, this is about basic welfare and basic security.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227150901	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227150902	Well, the government wants us to have a stronger emergency response than what we have today. So the questioner has misunderstood something when he keeps saying that it should just as it is today. No, it shouldn't. It has to be better, and that is why we must, it can be said, freeze the emergency response we know today so that there are no relocations and there are no deteriorations. This is true in Skærbæk, it is true in Toftlund, and this applies to the car we have just talked about, in Thisted, as well as in Nordals. There needs to be an improvement, both in cross-country coordination, but also in the provision of 10-15 additional emergency preparedness and in ensuring that there is a national level of service. Because when the questioner has discussed zip numbers earlier, also with me, it is because it is very relevant. Because there are places where there are black holes, and that is also why, with the health reform, the government is calling for greater transparency in this area, it has to be comparable across the country, and we need to have the black holes that are in the cover in different places. Because we cannot be aware to the public that this will create insecurity about emergency response.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227151001	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227151002	But we are at the heart of the matter, when the Minister in his own constituency guarantees it. So, I am quoting the minister here as saying to the JydskeVest Coast, who writes: "The Nedworker's car at Nordals creates security in an area that many would otherwise call an outer area. But for me, it doesn't matter whether you live in Pøl or on Perlegade in Sønderborg city, everyone in my world is entitled to urgent emergency care," says Ellen Trane Nørby. Why can the guarantee and preservation of a readiness in the minister's own constituency not be extended to the neighbouring municipality as well as Tønder, Toftlund and Skærbæk in the same region? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227151045	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227151047	I believe that the questioner, like his colleague, is not listening. For what I have said about the emergency car at Nordals is exactly the same as I have said about the car in Toftlund, in Skærbæk and in Tønder, which we are talking about now. And this is the same thing that I have said before about Lemvig, and about Thisted, and about Hørring. We will not accept any deterioration, but we cannot guarantee that the regions will not impair emergency preparedness. Unfortunately, we have seen that they have done so several times. Nor can we take responsibility for what regional politicians are doing here and now. Unfortunately, there are very bad examples of a reduction in emergency preparedness. What we are doing, on the other hand, with the reform of health is strengthening emergency preparedness. 10-15 additional emergency preparedness, but also, in a sense, a requirement that there should be a national service framework to ensure that you can be safe throughout the country. For today there is too much geographical variation in how quickly the ambulance gets there, and that is not good enough in a country like Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227151140	That was the end of Question 15. Thank you all. We are skipping Question 16, which will be replied in writing to Mr. Orla Hav, and move on to question 17, which is a special way of asking, including a fellow questioner, which means that you have extra time. The questioner is sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen, and co-questioner is Mrs Karin Gaardsted, both from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227151201	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227151203	Thank you, President. The question is: how much of the money in the proximity fund will the Minister devote to people with mental illness?
ParlaMint-DK_20190227151211	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227151213	Thank you for the question. With the proximity fund, 6 billion have been set aside. kr. in the period 2020-2025, and the fund will contain money for new and modern health houses, more employees and strengthened competences in the near health care sector. This is all something that will also benefit people with mental disorders. About half of the Fund's resources, or 3 billion. kr., is used for investments that allow for a significant expansion of modern health houses and multi-medical practices, and the other half of the proximity fund must then ensure that we have more employees and that they also have strengthened competences in the near health care, so that we can move more treatments closer to where people live. Raising efforts in the near health care sector must help us to be much better at preventing, intervening early, including when it comes to people with mental problems, so that we can help people in the past and so that we can avoid the problems growing as big as we can, unfortunately, see in many places today, but also that we can get a more close offer when we look at psychiatry. With the health communities, we also ensure greater local cooperation, where we can bridge the gap between the local hospitals, psychiatry, municipalities and practitioners. This will also greatly benefit people with mental disorders, as unfortunately we can see that there are a great many people with mental disorders who are today being lost to the Bermuda triangle between the municipality, hospital and their own doctor, and where we need to help better and ensure that some are ready to take over when, for example, you are able to take over. are discharged from treatment psychiatric services, ensure better cooperation and ensure more integrated cooperation, including between social psychiatry and treatment psychiatric services. And then we just have to note that there are a great many psychiatric patients who are in contact with many different actors in our healthcare system and that there is a need for much more cooperation around patients and with patients in order to ensure a more complete course. That is why I very much expect psychiatric patients to benefit from the establishment of both health communities and health houses, and also from the silo thinking of health care, which is reflected in the health reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227151419	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227151420	Thank you very much, Minister. I asked how much money this is about, and I did not get an answer to that. I'm told there's 6 billion. kr., and that there are 3 billion. kr. for installations and then 3 billion. kr. for skills development and other. The reason why I am raising this question today is that if you look at the government's vision of the reform of health, it is of course that you want to move 500,000 outpatient treatments from the hospital and into the nearest health care system, i.e... in the field of medical practice, but it could also be a municipal health service, as I interpret it. The psychiatric patients are filling up a lot. Unfortunately, we are in a situation where more and more psychiatric patients are receiving treatment and also entering regional treatment psychiatry. When you listen to what the psychiatric patients' organisations say, this is about a lot of patients, if you have to look at how many are hospitalized today, and the government has estimated that 25%. towards 2025, which is not very many years from now, should be moved from the treatment psychiatric system to the nearest health care system. It's an estimated number of between 60,000 and 95,000 patients. Then there is a question when it comes to economics, because we know that part of the treatment of psychiatric patients is psychotherapy, and psychotherapy is not 100% for everyone. paid by the public authorities. For some groups, there is user finance, an own payment of 40%. And I would like to ask the Minister: does the Minister here have an overview of how many psychiatric patients are expected to be moved by the government to the nearest health service? In relation to the self-payment, if it is psychological treatment that is needed, the practitioners' organizations say and it is also the knowledge we generally have in the Danish Parliament that many practitioners are lacking. So they don't have a spare capacity to give psychotherapy to anxiety and depression patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227151626	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227151627	The questioner says that the questioner did not get an answer, and that is why I just have to say again that the 6 billion. kr., which is in the proximity fund, goes both to psychiatric patients and to somatic patients. It may well be that the Social Democracy operates in such a, I would say, old-fashioned universe, where psychiatry is like something completely different and where psychiatric patients must not be near somatic patients, but what we want is far greater integration. That is why psychiatry is also part of both the political superstructure and the professional level in the health communities, because we need the psychiatry to be thought much more integrated into our health care. We need some of the citizens we have with mental disorders, which also have somatic disorders, to have a much greater connection. We need far stronger cooperation between treatment psychiatry and social psychiatry than we see today. And so it is the case that all the funds benefit all patients in Denmark, whether they are somatic patients or psychiatric patients.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227151722	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227151722-2	This is talking about. That is to avoid my question about crowns and ears and about user charges and about capacity. Who's gonna take care of these 25 percent? of the psychiatric patients who are going to outpatient treatment in treatment psychiatry today? Who is going to take care of them in the near health services and is there money for those who are going to be treated by a psychologist if that is what the minister is talking about with integration? Where's that money coming from? In other words, the Minister has received the questions from patient organisations and is now also receiving them from the Social Democratic Health Rapporteur. Let's get an answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227151804	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227151805	If the Social Democratic rapporteur were to read the government's health proposals, he would see that the health houses we are talking about may as well be psychiatry houses as we know them from Silkeborg, where we give clear examples. These may be health houses where offers for somatic patients and psychiatric patients have just been integrated into one, so that we can just have coherence in the course of treatment. That is why I am saying that the 6 billion. kr. We're going to our patients as a whole. As far as the second part of the question is concerned, i.e. whether user charges are being introduced through the back door, I would say: no, there is not. After all, this is not merely an expression of political ambition. It is a professional recording from the Danish Health Authority, in relation to how we can help people with mental disorders better than we can today, with more closeness to the treatment and more coherence in the treatment, and so hopefully we are also able to seize them earlier and prevent more than we are doing today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227151856	Then we move on to the co-questioner, Mrs Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227151858	Thank you. I simply do not think that we will get an answer from the Minister as to how much money should be allocated to psychiatry. I'm from Viborg. There we have a very large psychiatric hospital and I am sure they will follow the answers given by the Minister here with very great interest. The minister says it should not mean that there will be user charges. However, if there is no one outside the general practitioner who can take over that task when patients return from the hospital and have to be treated at home in the municipality, then there are only the private psychologists to take over that task, and thus there will be a user fee of approx. 40% I would just like to hear the Minister again: how will the Minister ensure that there is no user charge for those patients?
ParlaMint-DK_20190227152002	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227152002-2	I just have to say that the Socialists get answers all the time. We hold several consultations, and we have Article 20 questions all the time. I just don't think the Socialists like the answer. That's quite fair, too. That is probably where we have different views. The government thinks we should have a more close health care system. We need to move more treatments closer to where people live. We think we should have a more coherent healthcare system. That is why we are proposing 21 health communities, so that we have a binding framework for what is happening in hospitals, inside the treatment psychiatric system, what is happening in the municipalities and what is happening in the hospital. For there are a great many patients, not least patients with psychiatric disorders, who today experience that they are being discharged to nothing, that no one is ready to take over and seize when they are discharged when they are repatriated again and again, sometimes even under compulsion. We have to do better than that. That is why we need to have more proximity and more coherence. When I say that we do not introduce user charges through the back door, it is of course because before you can move out a task that is currently anchored outpatiently in the psychiatry, there must be professional work anchored in the Danish Health Authority and the construction of a quality plan for the near, specifically in this area where you are precisely assessing where the capacity is. How much can PPR lift to that time when we speak children and young people? How much can general practice promise? What can be the presence of other actors in the field of psychiatry? What could be of psychologists? After all, it requires a new organisation in relation to what we know today. That is, in fact, the whole set of thinking in the government's health reform, so that we get better treatment for those patients who are often neglected today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227152131	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227152132	The Minister says that we in the Socialist Group do not like the answers we receive. That's right. That is absolutely right; we do not like the fact that we cannot get an answer as to whether any money has been allocated to psychiatry at all. The Depression Association believes that if the money does not follow the government's health reform, there is a risk that new mentally ill people will actually be generated, because far more people with anxiety and depression will have to queue up for a psychologist or perhaps not be able to afford treatment. So why does the government not want to quantify the amount of money to be allocated to it?
ParlaMint-DK_20190227152218	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227152219	First of all, the money follows the patients. So with regard to the concern expressed today by the Socialists, I can say that I have responded to that earlier. I can repeat this: the money follows patients when they move treatment into the nearest health care system. This is, in fact, a principle of government health reform. The second part is about how we can strengthen psychiatry. We made a psychiatry action plan in the autumn, strengthening psychiatry by more than 2.1 billion. kr. When we had to negotiate it with the Socialists in the pool negotiations, there was no will on the part of the Social Democrats to allocate so much money. I think it is really a pity that the Socialists did not really want as much money to be set aside as the government put up. But our priorities are so different. As far as the health reform and the offers that are coming out are concerned, it is clear that you have to look at a new organisation, looking at psychologists, looking at general practice, looking at PPR, looking at our specialist practitioners in the field of psychiatry, so that, on the basis of a professional work done by the Danish Health Service, you also have a quality plan, so that you ensure that the relocation takes place in a proper way, where we get a higher quality for patients than they are today, where many people are waiting, unfortunately, or experience that the disease gets worse before they get help.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227152329	Then that is the last question, Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen, who gets to finish.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227152332	What the Minister brings here is a complete bluff. The minister makes it sound like you're moving 500,000 patients from the hospitals and treatment psychiatric wards to the nearest health care system, and all the problems are solved. It is absolutely insane that we have a minister who does not know that there is no free capacity out there. That is why it is also a question of asking what is involved in the preparatory work of the Danish Health Authority. Does it show that it is realistic to move 500,000 patients and nearly 100,000 in psychiatry? The minister says the money follows the patient. The money also follows the patient to the same extent if you have a free treatment in the treatment psychiatric system and must go out and be treated by a psychologist with a user fee of 40%.?
ParlaMint-DK_20190227152421	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227152422	I therefore hope that the Socialist Group in the European Parliament's health rapporteur will be a little more concerned and will also talk to the professional organisations about what is of capacity. When we look at the psychologists, they point out that there is an additional capacity. When we look at the private practitioners as well as the Association of Special Physicians in Denmark, they point out that there could be a stronger capacity out in the psychiatry if you organize some of the things differently. But I understand that the Socialists do not mean that. I think it is important that we also build this on the professional recordings that are coming. That is why it has also been proposed that before you can make a relocation, for example. in the field of moderate anxiety and depression, there must be professional work anchored in the Danish Health Authority with the involvement of the professional actors, so that there is also a professional framework for it, so that patients' treatment can be moved safely without compromising quality, and also without introducing user charges through the back door, as the Social Democrats continue to claim there is.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227152517	Thank you. That was question 17. Now we move on to Question 18. I would like to advise that I expect us to reach question 18 and question 19 if all parties are disciplined. I'm not gonna stop in the middle of a question. We'll finish a question when we get started. Question 18 is to the Minister for Health and the questioner is Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227152536	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227152538	Thank you, then the Minister and I will have to try the disciplined. My question is this: can the Minister guarantee that the paramedic car in Brovst, which the citizens of the local area around Brovst find great security in having, will not be abolished, just as the Minister has protected the special emergency preparedness in the minister's own circle at Nordals?
ParlaMint-DK_20190227152557	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227152558	Thank you for another question on emergency preparedness in the North Jutland Region, which I am delighted to receive. Because it is very important to me and the government that we strengthen emergency preparedness in Denmark, and that is what we are proposing with the reform of health. For all citizens must be confident that they will receive the necessary help if they experience acute illness or an accident, and this also applies, of course, to the citizens of Brovst. That is why I would like to stress once again that it is clear from the health reform that the government expects that the equipment placed in place will not be moved in the coming years, so that there will be no deterioration in coverage, and so that we can be confident that the emergency response we have today will also be there tomorrow. So the government has no plans to close down or move the paramedic car in Brovst or for that matter anywhere else, as many of the questioner's colleagues have also asked. To repeat some of the things I have mentioned earlier, we are, as a result of the health reform, setting up 10-15 additional emergency services, be it emergency medical vehicles, be it ambulances, be it emergency cars, so that we can put into those areas of the country where the coverage is not sufficiently high today. If I look at the North Jutland Region, I think that the question asked by the Social Democratic Party should be whether it is acceptable that the citizens of the North Jutland Region should put up with only around 91 per cent. of the ambulances arrive within 15 minutes when you can look towards the Central Jutland Region and compare with that there is more than 96 per cent. by the ambulances arriving within 15 minutes. Because that is exactly what the government does not think is reasonable, that is to say we see such a geographical difference in what emergency preparedness is today, that there are citizens who have to put up with the fact that emergency preparedness in some parts of the country is worse than elsewhere. This is what we want to do with the health reform, so that we can strengthen emergency preparedness, and so that we can ensure a proper security throughout the country, be it in Brovst, be it elsewhere in North Jutland, be it elsewhere in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227152753	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227152754	Thank you. The Minister refers to the fact that several of us are asking today, and that is clear. Because when the Minister opens the door to peace in one place and guarantees survival in one area of the country, it is of course clear that all of us, too, would very much like to ask for the same guarantee where we come from. Because at the moment there is a very big discussion about our entire healthcare system and it creates insecurity, it creates uncertainty and it creates uncertainty for the people it is about and, therefore, if something can be guaranteed in one place, can something be guaranteed on an equal footing with that in the areas of our others and not just in the minister's own circle? That is why I would just like to ask again, and it may well be that the Minister does not assume that something will happen: if you can protect one car, can you also protect another?
ParlaMint-DK_20190227152843	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227152844	If anyone is creating uncertainty, then it is the Social Democrats who are asking the question themselves who are touring around the country and telling citizens that they should be worried about whether the ambulance is still there tomorrow. That is simply what creates insecurity, namely the Socialists. For what the government clearly says, and this applies both to the emergency car at Nordals, it applies to the emergency car in Lemvig, it applies to the emergency car in Hjørring, if I take some of the things we have discussed on other Wednesdays in the Parliamentary Chamber, is exactly the same as what I am saying here. For we want a stronger emergency response throughout the country, and the guarantees we give in one place in the country do not apply only in one place in the country. It goes without saying that we expect the regions not to make any deterioration in the years to come. They have done so in the past, unfortunately, one can say, especially for the Northern Jutlanders. They have experienced many deteriorations in the socially democratically-led region. We assume that there will be no deterioration in the years to come, so that we can strengthen emergency preparedness by putting in 10 to 15 extra cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227152943	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227152945	I just need to get this right so that I don't tour around something afterwards that the Minister feels misunderstood about. Does the Minister say that what the Minister says at Nordals, the Minister also says in the municipality of Jammerbugt, that is, that the same guarantee that the car is there at Nordals also applies in the municipality of Jammerbugt? 'Cause then I'm gonna walk out of here like a happy MP in North Jutland.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227153009	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227153010	Yes, that is what we have spent on Wednesday after Wednesday, and yet social democrats are touring around the whole country, creating insecurity about whether there are ambulances running tomorrow. I just think that is what the Social Democrats are saying in this debate. It is clear in black and white in the government's health reform that we expect no deterioration or relocations to take place in the coming years. Unfortunately, I have to say that, just while I have been Minister for Health, we have had several debates on the Region of North Jutland, where the Regional Council has reduced emergency preparedness and this creates insecurity. That is, of course, what we want to do about, and it applies both to emergency preparedness in Brovst and to the cars we have talked about elsewhere in the country. So, yes, it is, of course, a standstill for all emergency services in the whole country, and the Socialists must begin to tell that about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227153101	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227153102	So there is still no guarantee, unfortunately. It might also have been too much to hope that it reached Jammerbugt. I'm not actually touring around with anything insecure. In fact, I am trying to say that I think we should stick to the framework for our healthcare and then improve what needs to be improved instead of a huge new centralisation exercise where no one knows what they are getting. So I do not know whether you really want to press it in the direction of social democracy. I think the Minister lacks answers.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227153137	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227153137-2	I say exactly the same with regard to the emergency car in Brovst as in Hjørring and as in Nordals, and that answer has been given to social democrats here in the Wednesday Question Times. So don't keep touring around the country and create insecurity around the ambulance accommodation nationwide. What the government is saying is that we will not accept relocations that cause deterioration in the years to come, but we will have to have a dialogue with the regions. Unfortunately, for the regions, emergency preparedness has deteriorated several times. The North Jutland Region is a good example of this. In addition to the fact that the ambulances there in more cases come out later than they do in other regions, only 91 per cent. Of the cases, the ambulances arrive within 15 minutes. Unfortunately, we also see a Region of North Jutland which has repeatedly deteriorated emergency response, and that is what we are putting our foot down on. Because we want to strengthen emergency preparedness in Denmark, and that is also what we put more money into our health reform so that we can have more emergency preparedness so that we can strengthen coverage and security throughout the country, including in Jammerbugt Municipality.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227153234	Thank you both for that. There are no more questions in this round. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 19, which is the last question to the Minister for Health, and the questioner is Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen from Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227153246	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227153249	Thank you. Can the Minister guarantee that the emergency medical car in Kolding and the emergency car in Rødding, which citizens in the local area find great security in having, will not be closed down, just as the Minister has protected the special emergency preparedness in the minister's own circle at Nordals?
ParlaMint-DK_20190227153301	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227153302	Well, Cadeau for perseverance. If we had reached the rest of the questions, we would have reached almost all ambulances and emergency medical cars in Denmark. And we can take them individually, so I can answer the same for all of them. For the government's health reform requires precisely that there will be no relocations of emergency preparedness in the coming years, so that there will be no deterioration. This is true at Nordals, and this is true in this case when we talk about the emergency car in Kolding and the one in Rødding. It is, in fact, an important premise for the government's health reform that we want to strengthen emergency preparedness because, unfortunately, we can see that there has been deterioration in various parts of the country. And we can also see that there is a very large variation in the coverage that has landed over, with very different service levels, with very different response times, depending on where you live. There we want a national, more standardised service level for our emergency response across the country. This means that we are putting money into deploying 10-15 additional emergency preparedness in the form of emergency medical cars, emergency cars and ambulances, so that we can better cover the areas of the country that are today too badly covered in the years to come. And this also presupposes that we look a little more at what we really are working together across the regions, so that we do not have black holes in the regional borders, which we unfortunately have in some places today, where we do not cooperate well enough across regional borders. And we do not think we can be aware of the citizens who live on the edge between one region and another region that there is not strong enough coordination. So these are some of the things that need to be improved. And that's why we're also spending more money on more ambulances and emergency services. Fortunately, in the Region of Southern Denmark, some money has just been found to cover some of the gaps. This is a good step forward, and we can do even better with the government's health reform. And that is what is needed so that we can create security for the citizens of the whole country when it comes to emergency preparedness.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227153453	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227153454	Thank you. First of all, I would like to acknowledge that the Minister is pointing out the perseverance of the Social Democratic Party. It is, of course, a very important feature of politics, whether you are in opposition or perhaps lucky enough to get into government one day. I think that there are many of the things the Minister says are right, but what is the hops in the discussion we have here today is that the government in the health programme writes through and through: we expect we do not expect to change emergency preparedness. And that is not a very firm guarantee if you are a citizen of, for example. Redding and enjoying and finding security in the emergency car there. In reply to the other questions, the Minister has said a few times that the Minister cannot guarantee what the regions are doing tomorrow or during the period that may go on until the government is now allowed to use the phrase god forbid it, but the people's deep, the result of the vote forbids the closure of the regions. It's obvious. Of course, the Minister cannot predict what the regions may decide. But what the Minister has a certain influence on is what happens when the government's health reform, if that happens, comes into force. And there is the wording today: we do not expect emergency preparedness to be shut down. Is that a miswording? The question is whether there should have been a guarantee or whether it was just an expectation. That is what the discussion is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227153630	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227153630-2	No, because we are so deeply dependent that until 2021, when the government's health reform comes fully into force, it is the regions that operate emergency preparedness. And that means that if the regions want to make deterioration tomorrow, it will be a question of negotiating between the government and the regions to avoid that deterioration. Unfortunately, that is what we have seen elsewhere in the country, where we have also had to pool several times in order to patch up the emergency response that has been reduced in some regions. This is also the reason why, together with the Danish People's Party in the Danish Finance Act 2018, we set aside money to deploy a fourth emergency medical helicopter in Denmark, because we want to strengthen emergency preparedness. And with the reform of health, we are putting in place 10-15 additional emergency preparednesss, which will be on top of the preparedness that we know today. So no, we do not want any deterioration in existing tools; we do not want relocations. But if the regions move it, we cannot intervene. I have no authority directly in relation to the regional councils as they stand today. And we're just gonna have to deal with that until 2021.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227153731	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227153732	I understand the Minister's desire to talk about a health reform that has come a little bit off the ramp, but I do not think we have time for that now. I also understand that the Minister has no influence on what is happening in the regions and what is being taken by decisions towards 2021. What I really want answers to is a very clear question: is it a mistake for the government to write that after 2021 it is not expected to change emergency preparedness? Do you think that you can guarantee it, or is there just an expectation of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20190227153806	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227153807	That's not what we write. Perhaps that is where we are again seeing a situation in which the Socialists are touring around with a scaremongering campaign. Now we have to deal with the emergency medical car in Kolding and the emergency car in Rødding, and you just have to scare the population by saying that it should be changed. What we are saying is that we cannot guarantee what the regional council politicians are doing tomorrow, but we can expect and expect an agreement to be made with the regions that they do not make relocations, so there will be deterioration until we have a national preparedness which will ultimately mean that the Folketing will have to meet targets for some national standards in relation to what the level of service should be for emergency preparedness. We are very much lacking in that today, when it is geography and the region that determines how fast the ambulance is coming forward. It just gives both black holes in the coverage today, and it creates insecurity, and it creates a geographical inequality in health that we do not think is fair to the citizens of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227153859	The questioner for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227153900	But the Minister does not answer the question. I'm not interested in us accusing each other of who scares people and who doesn't scare people. After all, we are taking part in a fairly general political debate here. What is crucial is whether the Minister will guarantee that there will be no emergency preparedness shutdowns when the government's health reform comes into force in 2021, and not whether the Minister believes that something is going to happen in the intervening period. Can we have a guarantee that there will be no emergency response with the reform of health?
ParlaMint-DK_20190227153939	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227153939-2	I think that what we are writing in black and white is that we do not want any deterioration in the emergency response that we know. This applies to Rødding, Kolding and the other places we have talked about today. That is why I say: I wish we could get to where the Social Democrats did not tour around everywhere and cast doubt on the ambulances there are. What we are proposing with the reform of health is, in fact, to add 10-15 additional emergency preparedness to the preparedness we know today because, unfortunately, there is geographical inequality in health today. There is great variation in the emergency response in the various regions. We in the government do not think this is fair and, unfortunately, we can also see that there are some black holes across the country where citizens do not get as good coverage. We do not think this is acceptable either, because it should not be the case that peripheral areas are less covered in this way. That is what we are doing with the reform of health.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227154028	Thank you both. Then we reached seven questions within one hour. Let's move on. Question No 1, by Mr McMahon 20, 21, 22 and 23 have been deleted because of the 1-hour rule. Question No 1, by Mr McMahon 24 have been withdrawn by Mr. Jan Erik Messmann. Question No 1, by Mr McMahon 25 is also deleted due to the 1-hour rule. That is why we have come to Question No 1, which is why we have tabled a motion for a resolution on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party No. S 548), and it is to the Minister for the Environment and Food, so we thank the Minister for Health for today, and the question has been asked by Mr. Peter Kofod, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227154112	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227154116	Thank you for that, President. What is the Minister's position on the level of penalties for the illegal keeping of toxic and potentially life-threatening animals, and does the Minister intend to tighten up the penalties for this, so that it triggers sentences of liberty rather than fines?
ParlaMint-DK_20190227154129	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227154132	Thank you for the question. For various reasons, keeping a large number of wild species is prohibited. It may be because they are difficult to keep in a proper way, it may be because they can cause fear, or it may be because they are dangerous. The list of forbidden animals is long. It includes as different animals as cuckoo, koala bear and large white shark. Some are poisonous, for example. poisonous snakes and scorpions, while others such as lions and crocodiles are dangerous for other reasons. The common feature is that animals are not super fit to be kept as hobby animals. If, despite the ban, a prohibited animal is kept, it can be fined, but that does not mean that it is the only relevant rules to look at. If the animal has been kept in a manner that is not animal welfareally sound, it may be penalised in accordance with the applicable rules of the Animal Protection Act. The penalty framework is here for up to two years in prison if it is outright abuse. If the animal has posed a concrete danger to other people, there may be a violation of the penal code and thus a significantly higher penalty, including prison sentences. What rules have been infringed in specific cases is for the prosecution and the courts to assess. In my view, this together means that the legislation already provides good opportunities to punish infringements in this area in an appropriate way, and that is why I do not have any current plans to change the rules in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227154305	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227154306	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. When I have taken up this theme, which I actually think is a little overlooked, it is on the basis of a major police action that was on Zealand and Lolland-Falster at the beginning of February, when the police in a coordinated action in Rødovre, Roskilde, Rødby and Nakskov were out confiscating 45 poisonous snakes, including the most toxic species known. In this connection, the Ekstra Bladet interviewed an animal keeper and one who is responsible for the collection of poisonous snakes in Randers Rainskov, who, moreover, often assists the police with help in such situations. He could then tell that one of these snakes was so poisonous that there was enough poison in a single bite to kill 100 spruce-grown men. It's pretty toxic. By the way, it is a poison that works so quickly that it could not be said at all to start looking for antidotes. So it was certain death. The antidote wouldn't be able to get there, so you get bit, it's just too bad. The reason why this has puzzled me is that if you keep these very, very toxic snakes, it typically triggers a fine of between 5,000 and 10,000 kroner, and I mean somewhere that people must have all sorts of hobbies and hobbies, but when you have such poisonous animals, including snakes, as is the case here, you expose the surrounding society to a risk if one of these animals gets away. The animal keeper here could tell that some of these snakes had previously been seized in a place where they were very close to a kindergarten. So one might wonder a little what would happen if a snake got away and hid in the sandbox, and it would seem to me to be very, very unhappy if we ever got into that situation. That's why my call is just, if you couldn't screw up these rules, because I don't think 5,000 kroner. or 10,000 kroner. For that matter, something is preventing people from keeping animals as extremely dangerous as is the case here. So maybe it was obvious to go in and see if we could hit harder on this, because we are going to maintain the rules that are there, that there are just some animals that are too dangerous for you to have them.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227154513	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227154514	I would first like to say how pleased I am that Randers Rainforest assists the law enforcement forces in the removal of such animals here. I think you'd get a little sweat on your upper lip if you stood out there as a cop and had to deal with such a pickle. Of the publicity in the media, and that is the only reason I know the case in question, I understand that it is clear from the police's assessment that the people on whom we agree should not keep these animals, because it is illegal, apparently had a handle on what they were doing, and that therefore there will only be a charge for a violation of this with animals that are illegal and not with a view to endangering others, and this is expected to trigger a fine. The amount of the fine is decided by the courts. But I really think it is right that we should have this assessment of whether or not they have actually put someone at risk.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227154619	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227154620	I would now like to call on the Minister to provide this with a service. If you have those animals, no matter how you might keep them because there are certainly people who have great expertise in reptiles and know how to keep them inside I think you are taking a risk. There is a risk if you have an animal that is so toxic that it can eradicate an entire housing block, I think it was what the animal keeper said if it got free. I think that is a problem. I also think that we must show some willingness to maintain the ban that is now in place. This is clearly forbidden. These species are on a list of forbidden species, so there's nothing to come for. It's clearly forbidden.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227154701	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227154702	We do not disagree that these are people who violate the law, and that is why they must also be punished. I just think that there is a good reason for us to distinguish between whether you violate the law and keep animals you are not allowed to, or whether you are putting someone at risk. Because if you put someone in real danger and in the examples that Mr. Peter Kofod mentions, it may well be that you put someone at risk. It is clear that it is also one of the things for which you should be accused and for which you should be judged. But I think there must be a difference between whether you put someone at risk or whether you potentially put someone at risk. Otherwise, I think most kitchen drawers around need a service.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227154747	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227154747-2	The Minister is right about the latter. That was very witty. But isn't it a bit funny that a minimum sentence of two years is introduced by the Folketing to run around with a gun, but if you run around with a poisonous snake that can potentially be just as dangerous or more dangerous, you get a fine of 5,000 or 10,000 kroner. The two things are not the same, but I still think that the difference is great. So I don't have to ask any polemical questions or anything else. I just want one last time, because I think this is my last round, to ask the Minister to consider it one more time.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227154823	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227154824	I am always happy to listen to what the rapporteur says, and I should like to take this into account in my deliberations. When I draw on the smile tape, it is the picture that you either run around with a gun or with a green mamba in your belt or possibly as a belt or it isn't legal either. It made me pull a little bit on the smile tape. I would say that if you carry a gun around, it is in order to hurt someone. If you have a snake at home, it is probably because you have a hobby that is illegal, by the way, if it is a poison snake.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227154857	Thank you. There are no more opportunities to ask questions under Question 26. Then we move on to Question 27, which is also for the Minister for the Environment and Food, and the questioner is Mr. Simon Kollerup, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227154907	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227154909	Thank you. Does the Minister consider that there is reason to be concerned about the Danish aquatic environment and that further nitrogen measures are needed in this context to protect the Danish aquatic environment?
ParlaMint-DK_20190227154926	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227154928	Thank you very much for the question. We need to take good care of our aquatic environment, which is why we follow the condition closely, among other things. for the annual measurements in the monitoring programme • NOVANA. Aarhus University writes here in NOVANA on the discharge figures that they have been at the same level in the last nearly 10 years. The load has not increased in recent years, but the load has not decreased either, as we expected it to do. Our aquatic environment needs to be better and, over the coming years, there will be additional nitrogen measures. That is why there is at least cause for attention. Farmers use less manure than provided, while preliminary surveys of new experiments from Aarhus University suggest that a smaller part of the extra nitrogen used is washed out in the fields. At the same time, we have not seen the expected drop in emissions to the aquatic environment. In other words, there are many things that point in different directions, and that is why my ministry has asked Aarhus University to help with an up-to-date assessment of the situation. So we must first see the outcome of the work we have started. Otherwise, it will be difficult to react in a way that strikes properly in order to improve the aquatic environment. But, of course, farmers must also establish collective instruments to help improve the aquatic environment. At present there will be, among other things: Looking at the possibilities of creating increased incentives for the individual farmer to participate in this. If this is not sufficient to ensure that farmers voluntarily establish the collective instruments to a sufficient extent, the nitrogen reducing effect will have to be delivered in a different way. For it must be delivered and it will be delivered.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227155117	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227155119	Thank you. It is clear that when we take the matter up today by the Social Democrats, it is because we have been able to follow the debate, not least in the media. We have also been able to follow developments in the measurements made by the Minister, as the Minister correctly explains. The debate in the media has, of course, been about whether the efforts that were made were delivered, provided to some extent that they were to be delivered, and the collective instruments in particular have been reproached or at least the subject of debate. If, on the basis of the measurements, you can see that there is no progress to be made and you can see that there is a failure on the efforts to be made by agriculture, why does the Minister not think that there is reason to be concerned about the Danish water environment? I hear the Minister say that we should devote our attention to that. I think that's the word that was used. But the Minister won't say that we should be worried. I do not think I share that view, and I also believe that others do not share it either. Why does the Minister not think that there is cause for concern?
ParlaMint-DK_20190227155232	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227155233	When I use the expression that we have to pay attention, rather than being worried, it is because we may be using the words differently I am very aware of the Danish water environment, and I am very aware of this development, but when it doesn't for me turn into a definite concern, it is because it hasn't gotten worse with the Danish water environment in the last ten years. On the basis of figures from Aarhus University, we had a hope and a presumption that it would be better than that, and we should look for it to be. That's why I'm saying I'm paying attention I'm very attentive and I'm also very vocal about it, but I'm not worried.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227155316	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227155317	The minister says that the government had a hope and a presumption that things would be better for our aquatic environment, but that they have not been. I could then add that we in Parliament also had an expectation, because the government presented a nitrogen account for the agricultural package when it was adopted, which showed to the Folketing that there would be a reduction in emissions, and that there would actually be a green plus I think that was the expression used in each of the years up to 2021. In view of the current figures and the current deliveries on collective instruments, does the Minister consider that there is no need for further nitrogen measures?
ParlaMint-DK_20190227155400	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227155402	It is quite true that only a small proportion of the collective instruments have been implemented. So far, we have only promised, I believe, about 12%. 300 tonnes of nitrogen of the total effort agreed upon shall be delivered in 2021. That is why I am also grasping my own bosom and asking whether there are any measures that we can do by the Ministry to make it more attractive and that, at the same time, I ask agriculture to deliver from them. Because these actions need to be delivered, otherwise there will be cause for concern. But we are going to achieve the ambitions we have set ourselves in this area, and we are either doing this one way or we are doing it another way.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227155449	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227155450	But it's just gonna sound a little hollow, I think, too many people, that we're gonna get to the finish line and that you just have to wait and see that everything's gonna work out. The NOVANA figures do not show the progress we had expected, nor, to put it mildly, do the deliveries on the collective efforts show the progress that was required there. I think I have read somewhere that the Minister shouted relatively loudly in his office when the new figures for collective instruments came out. I would really like to know what the Minister was shouting and why he was yelling. So, what surprised the Minister, given that these figures have been known for a long time in the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20190227155527	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227155528	I do not think that a representation of what I was shouting will appear in the Chamber, and the President will certainly not like that, and then I shall have a rebuke that is practically equivalent to what I was shouting. So there are several things in this. First of all, there's this baseline and the NOVANA figures that haven't evolved in the direction we expected from the figures from Aarhus University. We have asked Aarhus University to look at this again. On the other hand, the baseline has not decreased, partly there is not the leaching we had expected. In addition, nitrogen is not used to the extent possible. So there's a lot of things to look at in this optic. There it is the collective instruments that are left out, and that will be delivered.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227155617	Thank you all for your efforts on question 27. The question is closed. We are going to Question 28 to the Minister for Education and Research, and the questioner is Mrs Mette Reissmann from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227155629	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227155631	In view of the fact that the government has not succeeded in its foreign debt recovery initiatives, does the Minister consider that new initiatives are needed in connection with the take-up of su-loans to ensure better opportunities in relation to the recovery of defaulted debts?
ParlaMint-DK_20190227155654	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227155657	Thank you for the floor. And thank you for the opportunity to discuss a subject which is of great concern to the government. Of course, when you choose to take out a loan, you have to pay it back. I'm outraged when it doesn't happen. And, of course, it does not make the matter any better that we are talking about a group of students who come to Denmark to take an education on an equal footing with Danish students. It is actually shocking that you then fail to repay your debt. I would like to emphasise that the government supports freedom of movement in the EU. It is a cornerstone of the internal market and a prerequisite for growth and employment in Europe and in Denmark. But you have to pay what you owe, even if you are moving from Denmark. In February 2018, the Government presented a seven-point plan to strengthen efforts to recover Su-debt abroad. This means that a year has just passed and we are well in the process of implementing the initiatives. The special unit of the Danish Debt Authority has recovered 11 million. kr. in 2018 and concluded payment agreements with debtors with approx. 40 million kr. in debt to the public sector. Disbursement Denmark has also taken a number of steps to improve and more efficient collection to support that fewer Danish and foreign students end up with defaulted debts. For example: is working to improve the self-service solution itself, just as Payout Denmark has introduced several payment options and continues to work on translating letters, guides and website so that it is all available in English. Of course, we are not there yet, and we are still working on all seven tracks. The government is constantly considering how to use the su funds in the best possible way and how to stem the rising cost of su to foreign citizens. If the questioner or anyone else has good ideas about how we can do even more in EU law to solve the problem, we are always open to new ideas. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227155836	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227155838	I would like to acknowledge that the Minister also feels provoked by the fact that there are people who do not pay back a debt, because it is the Community, it is the Minister, it is I, it is our colleagues, and also the rest of Denmark's population who help to pay for an outstanding one in which we have no part. But I would just like to draw the Minister's attention to the fact that the Minister is therefore responsible for a governing body which issues loans for millions each year and allocates the sum of billions. And it is money which, when we talk about foreign students, Denmark does not get back, and which we could of course use to correct a lot of things in Denmark. I do not hear that the Minister has any new proposals today, in relation to what can happen. And I would just like to say that out of the seven points to which the Minister refers, there are therefore six out of the seven initiatives put on the table by the government which have produced zero results; zero results. I and the Social Democrats think that is too bad, and that is why I would just like to ask the Minister: does the Minister really not think that the government has a responsibility when you are so provoked and you feel so deeply about this that there must be more initiatives so that we can start a recovery process as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-DK_20190227160000	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227160002	Well, I'm fully responsible, so I'm both outraged and I'm really trying to do something about it. And that's also why we've done this seven-point plan and we're working on it. It is not the case that because you try something and it doesn't work, nothing happens. It's not the same thing. For example: We have a plan to work with private debt collection companies to get it involved here and to say that we mean that we are doing that, but there were just no debt collection companies bidding in. Now the Debt Authority is looking into whether we can try to make that offer more interesting. Then we've also sent three test cases down to the city court to show the debtors that we're completely serious and that we want this money back. Hopefully when we get an enforcement basis, we'll go to Brussels and see if we can use the system down there to recover this debt. So yes, I think we are doing something in relation to more than one initiative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227160047	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227160048	It reminds me a bit of such a fable: "Look, where we gung, the mouse said to the elephant. In other words, it is possible that the minister of a genuine, honest heart, and I believe this in fact, would like to contribute to the recovery of these claims, but that does not alter the fact that there is therefore more noise than there is actually action by the government when it comes to the matter. After all, I have asked the Minister for Taxation a few questions, and we will have to take that when the answers come. But I would just like to maintain here that we are faced with a problem that is growing every month and that Denmark is actually losing income, in that there is therefore some money that we could spend on, among other things. to improve our economy in the education system. And I know that the Minister probably agrees with me too. But I would like to hear from the Minister whether he can give a promise that when we reach the end of this year, there has been a fall in relation to the portfolio of dubious debtors that we are dealing with, of a foreign nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227160149	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227160150	Thank you. I think it is now more raging in here because we are the only two who stand in this Chamber, apart from, of course, the President and the Secretary. Because we're actually doing a lot in this area. One of the points in the seven-point plan was to set up a special unit in the Debt Board to look specifically at su-debt. They have sent out, I think, 2,700 pushers, and that has resulted in 10 million. kr. has been repaid and payment agreements have been concluded for a further 40 million. kr. So the fact that nothing is happening at all is not entirely correct. I would very much like to try to do even more, but now the time has elapsed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227160231	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227160232	I personally have urged the Minister many times that we should sit down pragmatically and find solutions, and I still need to get an invitation to come over to the Minister so that this can be resolved, as it were. Does the Minister have a proposal on how we can proactively prevent foreign students from establishing debts which could be a risk of default in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20190227160253	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227160254	Some of what I have started in the Ministry now and which we are trying to look at is whether it can be that foreign students simply do not understand it. Because they have heard about Denmark and about how they can get su, and then they also get something called su-loans. Perhaps we have made it so easy that the friction you normally have when you have to enter into a loan agreement is simply not there. It may sound simple, but it is at least one of the hypotheses that we are trying to work with, and we are asking: can we do something there? So yes, we're also looking at things other than what's in the seven-point plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227160323	Thank you both. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20190227160330	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting, and I would like to thank everyone for their efforts in the service of the people's regime. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 28 February 2019 at 12.00 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
