ParlaMint-DK_20191001115934	Your Majesty and Royal Highnesses. It is the Festival Day of the People's Rule, and I welcome all guests and newly elected and re-elected members of the Folketing and the government, who will now pass their test. We who are gathered here, we who in the church were described as the word industry, each in our way represent the kingdom and the rule of the people. We share a shared responsibility for upholding democratic and western values, including in the way we debate and treat and respect each other. The quality of our work is crucial for the future and well-being of the people's regime. A look at the world around us shows that the rule of the people is not a matter of course that it is constantly under pressure and that every generation seems to have to reinvent it. It is our ancient constitution that decides that we should meet and start work on the first Tuesday in October and hear the Prime Minister explain as it says, the general position of the kingdom and the measures envisaged by the government. Why not in September or August? Perhaps because the harvest in the old days should be over, except for the beet and potato harvests, and then it gives the government and central government more time to prepare the legislative work so that we avoid lawlessness. According to the Rules of Procedure of the Danish Parliament, it is I who, as chairman of the age group, is responsible. not the eldest, but the longest seated person shall open the thing and have it set as it is called, i.e.: chair the election of the Bureau and Secretaries.
ParlaMint-DK_20191001120124	President. - The debate is closed. Henrik Dam Kristensen. If no one requests a vote, I shall consider the recommendation as adopted. It has been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20191001120140	For the first Vice-President, the Left Group has appointed Mrs Karen Ellemann. By common understanding between the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left, which has an equal number of members, the appointment of the second and third vice-president has taken place without drawing lots. For the second Vice-President, the Danish People's Party has appointed Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. For the third Vice-President, the Radical Left Group has appointed Mr. Jens Roh. And to the fourth Vice-President, the Socialist People's Party has appointed Mrs Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20191001120214	According to the electoral federations and the group's recommendation, the following members have been elected: Mrs Annette Lind (S), Mr. Christian Juhl (EL), Mr. Erling Bonnesen (V) and Mr. Bent Bøgsted (DF). Then things are set and I would ask the President to take his chair.
ParlaMint-DK_20191001120252	I would like to thank my colleagues for the election of the President of the Folketing. In my work, I would like to stress that the legislative work is carried out in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. I will make every effort to give everyone a fair and equal treatment regardless of party color. At the parliamentary elections on 5 June, the Things got 60 new members. For most people today, they are starting a new parliamentary year for the first time. The number fits quite closely with the experience of previous parliamentary elections, where about a third of the members have been replaced. I hope our newly elected colleagues have settled in. I look forward to a new meeting with my colleagues here in the Assembly Hall and to working with the talented people who have their daily walk here at Christiansborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20191001120350	It is my pleasure to welcome our guests today. Welcome to Her Majesty the Queen, to Hans Royal Highness the Crown Prince, to Her Royal Highness the Crown Princess and to Her Royal Highness Princess Benedikte. A special welcome to the representatives of the Supreme Court, to the President of the Faroe Islands' Lagting and the Faroe Islands' Layerman and to the President of Inatsisartut and the President of the Naalaksuisut. On this day I would also like to take this opportunity to send Parliament's greetings to Greenland's Inatsisartut and the Faroe Islands' Lating.
ParlaMint-DK_20191001120429	Then I give the floor to the Prime Minister so that, under the Constitution, she can give an account of the general position of the Kingdom and the measures that the Government intends to implement.
ParlaMint-DK_20191001120451	The Baby Cart, which stands outside the Usage, well to mark with the child in, the strawberry stalls on the side of the road, where the money box stands out freely, our children who bike to school. I feel in many ways like Dan Turèll: I care about everyday life. For it is the small things that sum up our great history, everyday life, past and present, with a single Danish word: trust. When you ask us Danes if we trust other people, record numbers answer: Yes. In Denmark we do not have gold mines, nor have we had gold mines, but we have something that is much more valuable: we trust each other. On trust, we have built a society with duties and rights in that order. I pay my taxes in confidence that you pay yours. I'll pay for your doctor's visit in confidence that you'll pay for mine. We have that solidarity, and when we meet in the residential area, at the workplace, at the parent meeting, human beings, we meet each other with confidence. It's not just cozy it's a huge force. Just one example: If an engineer at a Danish workplace has made a drawing that the blacksmith can quite quickly see doesn't hold water in reality, then the blacksmith goes to the engineer and says: Listen, there is just a detail there, shouldn't it be a little different? This can only be done because the two know each other because they eat the lunch together in the canteen. They may have gone to school together, and Sunday morning they play oldboys football. Denmark is linked. There it provides stability, it provides creativity, it provides jobs and it brings prosperity. Trust not only makes us safe, it actually makes us rich. Denmark is a great country! Do you recognize my picture of Denmark? I think a lot of people can, or you remember that's what it used to be. It may also be that one of you here today is thinking: Oh, is it all now so rosy? I wish I could answer yes. But no, I can't. Because even if the frame of our picture still holds away, there is something on the painting that has faded. I have seen strawberry stalls with video surveillance, and it is a paradox that while overall prosperity increases and has increased, many experience greater uncertainty. When you ask the Danes today whether they believe that their children will have a better future than the one they have had themselves, then more people have come into doubt. Those who have worked long, started early on the labour market, had the hardest physical work, are actually worried just about the near future. After all, they see that the welfare society they have paid for throughout their working lives is not there when they need it. I will do everything I can to ensure that we have a right to a previous pension for the most worn out. We must always fight for more justice. History is not only progressing, it can also go back. Outside the world, the victories we thought were won are lost: free trade, freedoms and the free right of women to abortion. And at home I know many people who see things rolling, but they're just not even part of it: running faster, but never fast enough, new demands. Trust beats cracks, centralization, the scandal of what was previously called SKAT. Suddenly, there's an American capital fund buying our home, and there are director bonuses of millions of kroner. Does greed know no bounds? Apparently not. There are large banks that failed their social responsibility, even though the rest of us held their hands under them, and there is the climate crisis, which is a real concern for our planet itself and therefore for our existence. Denmark is a strong country. The Danes are skilled. Our companies take responsibility for the society they are part of and for the jobs and prosperity on which our welfare lies. But there is unrest in the world, and countries, even close to us, are entering an economic downturn, and both brexite and trade wars can also rub off on us. In Denmark there is still progress, employment is high, unemployment is low. In other words, a lot is going well. Most things do, actually. But if it's going to go well, we have to do something about what's going badly. I think that the differences have become too great, the social contract has become weaker, confidence has diminished. And if impotence is allowed to take root, we risk losing the most important thing we have: faith in democracy, the will for the community, the hope of change. We must never lose that, because if we lose it, we lose faith that we can create the future together. That is why we must strengthen what makes Denmark Denmark Denmark: trust, cohesion, solidarity. These are the values I've been controlling since I was young. Even though I've grown older and in some respects wiser, hopefully throughout my life you'll get that... then I'll stand firm on what I've been rounded up by myself. I will lead the country with a clear ambition for Denmark, which is why my speech today is not so classic even. I am not going to list everything that is in the legislative programme, but instead will set a direction: greater justice, welfare first, a greener Denmark. Today, I would also like to thank you for the confidence shown by a new government, shown me as a new Prime Minister, from the electorate and from our parliamentary basis, the Enhedslisten, the SF and the Radical Left. We have written a common understanding paper, and we can be proud of that, of which I am the Government which does not have the mandates itself for what we would like to do, but I also believe that broad agreements can deliver the best results. Other times there will be a price to pay for the compromises, but we will be honest about that. Today I am giving my first opening speech as Prime Minister, and many of you sitting in this Chamber, 60 to be precise, are addressing your very first parliamentary year. We also have a whole new party. Welcome, I'd like to say, from colleague to colleague. Shouldn't we, old as new members of the Folketing, set the common ambition to be the very best version of the Folketing in the year we start today? Because even though confidence in us politicians has increased a tiny bit, it is terribly low, and I see the lack of credibility of all of us as a cry, we must take much more seriously. I think it is related to the fact that sometimes, how can I put it, we tend to inflate our results a little too much, not always being honest with our people, pretending that something that is difficult is easy, and vice versa. I'll try to stay away from that. Other groups in society enjoy much more confidence than that applies to us politicians: midwives, police, nurses, doctors, social and health assistants and helpers, all those who work with care for people. I understand. And I would say to you today: you are creating the security and opportunities that make Denmark Denmark Denmark. You do the little miracles of everyday life, it doesn't actually get any more important. Yet you are being pressured year after year, and surely it should not be the case that when society gets richer, welfare becomes inferior. That is why we want to put the welfare society first. Away with the re-priority contribution to education, all the way, from amu courses, vocational schools and universities. And in the agreements we have made with municipalities and regions, we put what can be called a bottom under welfare, so that more social and health workers and assistants can actually be employed when there are more elderly people; so that more children in today's institutions can also mean more adults. The money has to keep up with the demography. The welfare has in some places been too worn out, and in many places we work too hard on our employees, and therefore we will set aside money for extra 1,000 nurses. In other words, we are also beginning to develop welfare. That is how I could continue to list everything the government has already done, does and wants to do, and I could give our policy praise on the road. I think the rest of you can finish my sentences. We know about the jargon • lots of billions, a historic boost, for 10 years, municipalities and regions have not had as much money for welfare as they have now. I could. Actually, I've already done that. But I could also say something else, I could say it as it is, namely that a part of you sitting in the gallery, listening from home, will not notice these changes and improvements, at least not immediately. I would not argue that everyday life in hospitals, in nursing homes or in day care institutions will be significantly better or more secure at least not from the outset. Because even if we spend several billions of dollars, and we do so, even if we propose to roll back some of the skewed tax cuts, and even if we spend more money on education and children, the challenges are so great that, unfortunately, many will not even discover it at all. In other words, you will get the honest version: We have only taken the absolute first steps with the emphasis on the first steps. However, the first steps mean that we are in the process, step by step, agreement for agreement, hopefully financial law after finance law. This year and next year and the years after, we hope to be able to put welfare first when we distribute the money. But I would also like to say that it is quite clear to me now that money is not going to solve all the problems. We need to have a much more fundamental discussion of our welfare societies. Why did we create it? Why did we build this unique, amazing society? It was built by people for people. That's how it was; that's how simple and so fine it is. However, in many places today you may feel that care has been pushed into the background and that something else has taken over. New public management, savings, efficiency improvements and as long as I have been involved in Danish politics, the welfare discussion has been almost exclusively about a welfare society that should run further on the liter. And then there has been a strange development that one can laugh at and some of you will probably do that but which I actually think is part of the problem: When I looked at my daughter's school schedule in August, I didn't understand the abbreviations. A teacher seminary has become university college, and does everyone in this room know what PLC is? It's an educational learning center. Once it was called a school library. When did we stop calling things what they are in Denmark? That's totally unnecessary alienation. Of course, we need to improve places that need to be improved and meetings must be held. In addition, strategies may have to be put in place. But welfare is not a project; welfare is warmth, it is well-being, it is love between people, and it is opportunities for you that have not yet received them. There are many of us, including myself, who can thank our welfare societies for giving us the opportunity to take a step up the ladder, but social mobility is not really getting any better right now, and the welfare of everyday life is getting worse in many places. We've got more project welfare, less general care. Let me give you an example of something we may not traditionally think of as welfare policy, but I think it is: the police. Very many Danes find that the police no longer move out when they are in a vulnerable situation and need the authorities, and their cases are dragging on. But we must be able to trust the police and the judiciary, because everything else is frightening. What happened? Many new tasks have come to be: gang crime, terrorism, now bombings, border controls. That is certainly a large part of the explanation, but is it the whole explanation, or has pseudowork also been allowed to take time from the right work? Today, more than 1,900 people are employed in the National Police Department. That's more than twice as many as the Funen Police Department. Many are employed centrally instead of out by the citizens. Couldn't it be that we could find a smarter and better balance there? Another example is caring for our elders. Like I'm thinking, many of you, I've also been trying to be internship like what we called home helper in the old days. At the beginning of the day we were given a minute's schedule. Each visit to each elderly person was measured in precise minutes. And it's your business to come in to an elderly citizen who, by the way, has built up this society and to say to him: Today, when you're sad, you can only be for 8 minutes, because soon we'll be gone. That doesn't make any sense. Now think about it. Somebody's been spending some time trying to figure out that schedule. I don't think anyone is spending time checking whether the schedule is being complied with, and I shouldn't be surprised if there's even any staff to check those who need to check the schedule. And all the while, the old man or woman is lying there and can't get out of bed. Employees in our care of the elderly spend half their time with the elderly half, about. This means that the other half of the time is not used to be with the elderly, and that time goes on to document, hold meetings, dose medicine and transport from one citizen to another. Of course, the medication needs to be dosed, and the day watchman needs to know what happened at night, but are there other tasks we can do without and which? Now we come to the hard part, to the dilemmas. Take, for example. free choice. It is an excellent idea, but when the citizen has to have the option of choosing cleaning from a private company, it requires that the task of cleaning is precisely defined: so many minutes to vacuum and dry the dust off. The question is whether part of the minute tyranny currently in the care of the elderly has arisen because of free choice. And I don't want you to think I'm only looking for sacred cows from here, because here comes the next dilemma, and now I might be looking a little more at this side of the Assembly Hall. For what is most important care or documentation and rights? I think most of us here in the Folketing have at some point demanded new rights, perhaps mostly those of us on the left. And why? Because, of course, we are affected when someone cannot get cleaned or when no one cares for him. But is the truth not that we are being tempted to legislate and regulate so much that local judgment, whether it be with the proud sosu or with the local politician, is gradually being put out of effect? Is it now only in the bowl speeches that we in this House pay tribute to local democracy? Are we really going to let municipal autonomy decide something more, and are we always out in the municipalities focusing on what is important, namely welfare for the citizen, and not schedules and strategies? Once, we Social Democrats campaigned for older people to have the right to bathe every day. Fortunately, we did not get through with that, for think what it could have resulted from exciting schedules and control. Apart from that, the elderly did not actually want to bathe every day. It drew headlines, and I don't know if you remember: There were reports from nursing homes where the residents said that the bath was fine, but then not every day. In fact, we forgot to ask the elderly what they needed. And equally important: we had forgotten what politics is all about. Legislation must be about direction; that is the way to lead a country; that is the political responsibility. However, if there is a specific problem in a specific nursing home, it must be the manager who has to solve the problem and the employee who has to answer for it. Instead, we have started draining the world's best social model for the most important thing: the confidence that other people can do their job, the confidence that problems can be solved locally and errors corrected. If we are to reverse that trend, we all need a lot of it. And hold on, it's gonna be hard. Because we must not just legislate over time, we must actually let go, and we must all start asking ourselves the hardest questions. In the municipalities: How do you not run down the detail in detail? In the trade unions: How can you not just demand new, firm rules for your members? In the patient associations: How can you not just demand new rights? Parental boards may have to keep a little under control and not propose a new sugar policy on top of ecological policy. And here in the Folketing, we need to improve our confidence in the others and perhaps start not to legislate on the basis of individual cases. Because you know what? Our employees out there, the most important resource we have, are drowning in all the good intentions about how to do their work in the best possible way. I understand those who sometimes leave bureaucracy behind; let it suck in one ear and out the other. I believe that we need a proximity reform in which we turn down retail management and turn up professionalism and management without, of course, compromising on the results. Cancer treatment must continue to improve and more children must actually learn to read when they go to school. The point is that the governance we have today does not produce the best results. We can and must do better. Today, I'd like to invite everyone on that journey. There are no free tickets, and the journey is going to require a lot of all of us. It won't be easy, but it can be very good if we dare. It is about confidence that the welfare is there for those who need it and time for something as old-fashioned as care. On the whole, we must take action where confidence is replaced by mistrust, for example. Our IRS. It is not only IT systems that have failed, and it is not just some criminals who have stolen from the box. It is about the fundamental confidence that the community is working. There are many years of recovery ahead of us. It's gonna be tough. It's also said before. But the task is there. Tax fraud must be discovered and punished. This requires better control. Tomorrow, we'll publish the government's bill of finance. Here we propose that we add even more money to the tax administration, among other things. for IT solutions. And I wonder if some of you who are listening will be as empty in sight as I was when some of you came and demanded new IT solutions. I would like to say today that the employees who are left in the IRS are doing what they can. It's not a fun place to work right now. They are doing as well as they can, but they deserve some more colleagues. Therefore, we will also hire some more people, as in the old days, • real people who make sure that others pay the taxes they have to pay. In one place, the crisis of confidence in our society has been greater than anywhere else, namely in foreign policy. For decades it was as if the politicians at Christiansborg and the people outside Christiansborg lived in each of their worlds. I know, because I was too late to understand how wrong things were. The failure of integration has drawn tracks in schools, residential areas and in jobs, and perhaps most clearly in crime. In prisons there are four out of ten foreign backgrounds. Too many people who have come here commit crime or their sons do. Violence is more than three times greater in male descendants with a nonwestern background than in other men. Crime is an evil in itself. There are also places in Denmark where I no longer walk at night. And on top of that, the few destroy much for the many for all those with a foreign background, who live a normal, law-abiding life, contribute to society, yet risk being taken as income for the other's atrocities. And regardless of who commits violence and violations of law... Danes or foreigners... we risk the entire Danish society being betrayed. I can tell that we are getting used to this crazy driving, threats, stabbing, shootings, gang fighting, yes, even explosions... that we are quietly going to find another way to go home, that it will be so everyday in the news stream that many people are going on, because that was also yesterday. We have to stop because that is not the way it should be, and it must not be. That's not what I want from Denmark. We cannot fight for cohesion and equal opportunities without taking integration very seriously, and we cannot take integration seriously without saying that the number that comes here is of course important. I know that things are not simple, that life is complicated, that behind statistics people and their stories are hiding. However, I would like to say that when you come to Denmark from outside and have the chance to live a life in a country with free education, with free medical care, with the opportunity to work and live in peace, it also gives an obligation to seize those opportunities. If you do not do so, it is a breach of trust with Denmark. The government is willing to go far against those who do not want the community and Denmark well. And I want to say quite clearly to the people: you can be confident that I will pursue the strict immigration policy that a majority in this House supports. We need to move on. The government will look at how we can tighten the legislation even more in terms of driving madness, Syrians and gang crimes. And rejected asylum seekers must go home. Foreign policy must be strict, but it must understand me rather hit the right ones. It is not to relax foreign policy that Mint gets a second chance and can return home, or for that matter that the children in Soulsmark can eat food outside the cafeteria. It is also not contrary to firm requirements for integration to recognise those who do well on the contrary. For thousands of people have come from outside. You have learned Danish, trained yourself, are in work and, of course, share our values. I will say to you: you contribute to society, you contribute to the community, and you must of course have confidence that Denmark is also your country. I am Prime Minister for the whole of Denmark and I will stick to what brings us together: trust, responsibility and justice. I want to strengthen the most valuable thing we have: our community and our values. And I'm gonna remember the world story that we're part of. Next year we mark two historic anniversaries. They will be celebrated, because we must learn from history. On 5 May 2020 is the 75th anniversary of Denmark's liberation. Many of the Witnesses of World War II are no longer among us. In other words, there are fewer people to tell us what it was like. A Europe that lifted itself out of war, out of need, out of genocide; a Europe that built peace on international rules of play, on cooperation, yes, on trust between countries. When those who saw it are no longer here, we shall carry that torch on. Next year we will also mark the hundredth anniversary of South Jutland being reunited with Denmark not with war and violence, but with a completely peaceful referendum, through trust. That is the confidence which is also today the source of cooperation in the border country, an international model. That is the confidence that our good and solid relationship with Germany stands on today. That is also the confidence on which European cooperation is based. If you have any doubts, look at Britain. I would like to bring about political change in a Europe that is responding to today's problems. Free movement, which in some places has become better for the market than for employees; tax fraud for billions, because it is as if speculators are almost always a step ahead of common rules. The climate crisis, which we only solve with other countries. And the concern that Europe has its borders under control does not exist in Europe. Smugglers earn millions of dollars in the distress of other people, refugees drown in the Mediterranean. Our government, of course, wants to help people flee, but we have to do so in the neighbourhood, because that is where we can help most people. I myself would like to take the lead in a new asylum system that is fairer and more humane and I will take it to Brussels. And refugees who have come to Denmark and have been granted asylum must of course return home and rebuild their country. It also provides room for us to help others. The government will set a new and progressive direction for Danish European policy, and if we do not succeed in doing so, we risk, of course, that confidence in the internationally binding cooperation will disappear. • the cooperation which was built to avoid the horrors of war and which is just as important today as it was then. There are so many who want to split up. In a divided world, we Danes must gather together. Climate change and interest in the Arctic bring the Faroe Islands and Greenland further into the international scene. I understand both Greenland and the Faroe Islands' desire for a more active role in foreign and security policy. I agree that we must strengthen cooperation, share knowledge and information. We are three countries, we are three peoples and we are three cultures, but we also have a strong community. I would like to offer an open invitation to cooperation in all areas where it can be of mutual benefit, just as I would like to say to the North Atlantic members here in the Folketing that the government will, of course, prioritize cooperation with you and the involvement of you. The Faroe Islands have had elections and a new regime has been formed. I have agreed with lagmand, Bárður á Steig Nielsen, that I will soon go to the Faroe Islands so that we can get started with the cooperation. I'm looking forward to it. President of Naalaksuisut, Kim Kielsen, and I have already begun our cooperation, especially on what deeply concerns both of us: the Greenlandic children. I have a new will to talk about the problems, including the difficult problems: suicide, abuse and violations. Greenland has encouraged Denmark to cooperate more closely on the children. I have answered yes to that, of course I have answered yes. Vulnerable Greenlandic children and young people must have a better daily life and a better future. There has never been more need for Greenland's children than now as banners of a beautiful and lovely country, a country that can show the whole world what it's like to be in the front zone of the climate crisis. On the whole, we must show children and young people that we take the climate crisis seriously. Because if we do not solve the problems that young people have asked us to solve, we will not fail the young people alone. Then we lose faith in the future. If we, who have the opportunity, evade responsibility, then we are powerless. Instead, we must take on both hope and will. The challenges we all know; they are huge. The ice melts, there are storms and hurricanes, it may seem insurmountable, but of course it is not. Because climate change is not only moving fast; it is also moving quickly with the will to do something about it. From all parts of the world there is now a massive interest in Denmark's ambitions, and we can turn the climate struggle into a joint Danish struggle. Children and young people demand change. It's time for the Folketing to deliver. Denmark has some of the best green companies in the world, and now we have to bring the whole business with us: transport, industry, agriculture, shipping, all the major industries. We are proposing binding partnerships; the business community has already agreed to this. The pension funds which manage the money that we must make a living on in the future. It really makes sense to invest the money there, so we actually have a future, and they do. The pension funds have indicated that they will secure a staggering billions for green investment. And to the politicians, us who are here in the Chamber: For decades the green development in Denmark was driven by legislation from Christiansborg on wind turbines, ecology, energy efficiency improvements. Now it is the other young people and the business community who are ahead of us. Dear Parliament, we must face again. The government, together with the Radicals, the SF and the Enhedslisten, has set a historically ambitious goal. We want to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 70%. in 2030. The alternative was first, the Conservatives wholeheartedly support, and now also the Danish People's Party and the Liberal Alliance. It is very good for green cooperation. We must have a climate bill in place before Christmas and then a climate action plan. The Danish economy is based on solid jobs and important exports. This is the result of a forward-looking business and skilled employees, but it is also the result of active political decisions where we have dared to strengthen the Danish positions of strength. And today we export billions in environmental, water, energy and climate technology, and the Danish pharmaceutical industry is leading the world. For a number of years, however, education and research have been spared. In my view, this has been economically irresponsible. That is why we also have to sit back in economic policy. For example: we suggest spending 1 billion. kr. more on green research next year. For me, this is not just about the climate; it is also about our nature and our environment. We need a clean environment, an air where we can breathe free, clean drinking water, forest and sea. Just think of the day today, October 1st; to go for a walk in the woods with friends and family. Is there anything better? We need to plant more trees, take better care of our wildlife and fight plastic pollution. In the summer in Himmerland, a deer with 4 kg plastic was found in the stomach 4 kg! It's not just deer that eats plastic and garbage. Our birds and our fish do, too. What kind of a world is this? Let us conclude the only real generation contract, namely that we leave a cleaner and better nature for the next generation than the one we were given ourselves. We must live up to our children's confidence in climate and the whole green agenda. We must put high ambitions in view of jobs and growth, respecting our social model, and without increasing inequality. That is what we can do with a new majority, with a new government. We can create change, a greener future. We can put welfare first. We can create a new confidence that the community actually works; that the police come when we call; that the home helper has time when we are sorry; that parents can deliver children in day care institutions without going all day with concern as to whether it is good enough and whether it is safe enough. The IRS needs to work. Wearers must be given the opportunity to retire earlier. We need an immigration policy that is strict, but without the symbols that are more about politicians than about solutions. We have not built Denmark on division, inequality or greed. We have actually built Denmark on the opposite: on care, on trust, on community, on solidarity, on enterprise and on cooperation. We must strengthen everything that makes our Denmark Denmark. I look forward to working with everyone here in the Danish Parliament. We must now start fulfilling the hope we have created: a safer, fairer, more green Denmark. Denmark live!
ParlaMint-DK_20191001124241	Thank you, Prime Minister. The statement will be debated on Thursday, 3 October 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20191001124247	I have a single review today: The Treasury Minister (Morten Bødskov): Bill no. L 4 (Proposal for a law amending the Share Advance Tax Act, the Exchange Gains Act, the Equalisation Act and various other laws. The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20191001124303	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday, 2 October, at 3 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
