ParlaMint-DK_20191219100006	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Health and the Elderly (Magnus Heunicke): Bill no. L 88 (Proposal for a law amending the law on tattooing (Regulation of cosmetic tattooing and exceptions to the law on exits)) and Bill No. L 89 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Authorisation of Health Careers and on Healthcare (Enlargement of the Field of Dental Care)). Sikandar Siddique (ALT) and Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT): Motion for a resolution No. B 63 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the creation of special police units focused on violence in close relations). Karina Adsbøl (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 64 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the punishment of hate crimes motivated by the victim's disability). Ida Au (RV), Anne Paulin (S), Thomas Danielsen (V), Morten Messerschmidt (DF), Signe Munk (SF), Mai Villadsen (EL), Mette Abildgaard (KF), Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT), Peter Seier Christensen (NB) and Ole Birk Olesen (LA): Request no. F 28 (What can the Minister say about the government's future climate policy initiatives in the light of the climate&#x2; policy statement?). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20191219100100	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request?
ParlaMint-DK_20191219100119	Member of the Folketing Thomas Danielsen has requested that his leave, which under Rule 41 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 3 (c) was granted on 17 December, converted into leave pursuant to Article 41 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 4. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219100145	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 41 by Birgitte Vind (S), Nils Sjøberg (RV), Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF), Peder Hvelplund (EL) and Susanne Zimmer (ALT), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour 62 (S, Bertel Haarder (V), RV, SF, EL and ALT) voted against 44 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 41 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 40 by Jane Heitmann (V), Karina Adsbøl (DF), Marcus Knuth (KF), Lars Boje Mathiesen (NB) and Henrik Dahl (LA) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219100248	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two motions for resolutions before the vote. V 38 af Annette Lind (S), Michael Aastrup Jensen (V), Søren Espersen (DF), Martin Lidegaard (RV), Karsten Hønge (SF), Naser Khader (KF), Peter Seier Christensen (NB), Henrik Dahl (LA), Aaja Chemnitz Larsen (IA), Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam (SIU), Edmund Joensen (SP) and Sjúrður Skaale (JF), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour 104 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, Eva Flyvholm (EL), Pernille Skipper (EL), KF, NB, LA and UFG) voted against 8 (EL and ALT), abstained 0. Proposal for adoption No V 38 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 39 of Christian Juhl (EL) and Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219100346	The debate is open and the first to speak is the chairman of the Committee on Finance, Mr President. Jens Joel, for an oral opinion. Here you go, sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219100401	Thank you. I should just like to inform you that, following the vote on the amendments tabled to the 2020 Finance Act, the Committee on Finance held a meeting in which the results of the votes were examined. And I can then inform you, on behalf of a unanimous committee, that this examination has not given rise to any comments or that further amendments have been tabled. So this means that the draft budget is being proposed for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219100434	Do more people want to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219100441	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 111 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT and UFG), against 5 (NB and LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219100507	The debate is primarily about the proposed amendment. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendment is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219100527	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 adopted by the Minister for Finance. The amendment has been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219100535	The debate is now about the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the bill? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219100542	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 101 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, KF and ALT), against 13 (EL, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219100609	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendments has ended and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219100642	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at the amendments. 1-3 by the Minister for Finance, as adopted. The amendments have been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219100649	The debate is now about the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219100658	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 109 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF and ALT), against 5 (NB and LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219100722	The debate is primarily about the proposed amendment. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendment is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219100743	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, as adopted. The amendment has been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219100751	The negotiations then concern the draft law as a whole. Mrs. Marie Krarup, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219100756	Dansk Folkeparti votes today no to bill no. L 41 on the granting of citizenship. During the course of history, the Danish People's Party has voted against 40 out of the 54 legislative proposals that have been in this Chamber since 1995 • the year in which the Danish People's Party was established. We have voted 'no' as the only party. Fortunately, we have tightened up the requirements for how to obtain citizenship in Denmark, but we are far from achieving it. The nationality is the innermost and most important line of defence of the Danish nation. We must not let anyone in on the line that does not really want Denmark, but the parties of this Things have done that 54 times since 1995. That is one of the reasons why we are facing the problems we face today: terrorist cases, ghettos, Syrians and jihadists. It has become part of the Danes' everyday life. It's sad. We in the Danish People's Party have fought against this, and that is why we are voting against it today.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219100922	Thank you to Mrs Krarup. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219100926	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 98 (S, V, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT, LA and UFG), against 15 (DF and NB), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219100952	The debate is primarily about the proposed amendment. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendment is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219101008	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 by Mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left. A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 30 (RV, SF, EL and ALT), against 80 (S, V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendments Nos 1 and 3 are therefore also tabled by Mr McMillan-Scott. Andreas Steenberg, lapsed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 5 by Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 30 (RV, SF, EL and ALT), against 80 (S, V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 4, also tabled by Mrs Rosa Lund, lapsed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219101122	The negotiations then concern the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to speak? Mr. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219101130	In March 2018, I visited the first Dane to have his bonus child expelled. A family was in deep, deep misfortune. The reason was the hasty law in 2016 on the so-called integration assessments of children. The Danish citizen's bonus child had been assessed unfit for integration. The law was rushed through in a few days in 2016 to avoid so-called Koran school children. Then officials were to sit at a desk here in Copenhagen for a few hours and decide whether a child could be integrated. The most well-known case is about Mint from Køge, a very well-integrated girl who suddenly had to be deported. No one could explain it. Replying to the Folketing showed that it was certainly not possible to explain whether there were Koran school children among the children expelled at that time about 40. A year ago, I was standing here on the platform with a proposal from the Radical Left. We wanted Mint and the other children to come home to their families in Denmark. Neither the Social Democrats nor the Left should have any of this; our proposals were rejected and voted down at the time. That's how small it was under the previous government. Today we are faced with this bill, which is just about to be adopted by a very broad majority here in Parliament, a proposal for a law that gives at least 83 children the opportunity to return home and that brings families together instead of separating them. And we see that both the Social Democrats and the Left are voting in favour, at least that is what we expect. Thank you. It's a big day. Common sense has triumphed. For us in Radicals, it does not stop here. Every year there are about 500-600 Danes who have their spouses expelled. For us, the hope is that the Left and the Social Democratic Party have changed their attitude to these family reunifications of children is to hope that Danish citizens too can have their spouses in their own homeland. We will continue to fight that battle, and we hope that both the Social Democrats and the Left will at some point also see that it is for no reason that Danish citizens have their families separated. But today we will be delighted that these at least 83 children will have the opportunity to be reunited with their families in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219101452	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219101457	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour 113 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT, NB, LA and UFG) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219101520	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219101540	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 113 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT, NB, LA and UFG) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219101605	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendments has ended and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219101625	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1-4 by the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply, as adopted. They are adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219101635	The debate is now about the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219101641	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 114 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT, NB, LA and UFG), against which 0 abstained 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219101701	No amendments have been tabled. Someone wants to make a statement. As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219101731	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 115 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT, NB, LA and UFG) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219101755	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219101809	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 103 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, KF, NB and LA), against 8 (EL), abstention 3 (ALT). The bill has been passed and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219101832	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219101846	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 68 (S, V, KF and LA), against 46 (DF, RV, SF, EL, ALT, NB and UFG), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219101917	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219101945	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 106 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, KF, ALT, NB and LA), against 8 (EL), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219102013	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219102025	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 114 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT, NB and LA) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219102050	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219102108	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 111 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT and LA), against 3 (NB), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219102132	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219102148	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will be taken at the end In favour, 114 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT, NB and LA) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219102212	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219102225	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 94 (S, V, DF, RV, 1 (SF (by mistake)), KF, NB and LA) voted against 3 (ALT), abstention 16 (SF and EL). The bill has been passed and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219102253	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219102303	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 96 (S, V, RV, SF, EL, KF and ALT), against 17 (DF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219102331	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219102348	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 88 (S, V, RV, SF, EL and ALT), against 25 (DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219102411	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219102430	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 104 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, 1 (EL)(by mistake), KF, ALT and LA) voted against 9 (EL and NB), abstained 0. The bill has been passed and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219102456	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219102511	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 94 (S, V, DF, RV, KF, ALT and LA), against 20 (SF, EL and NB), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219102537	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219102551	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2 adopted by a majority or on Amendments Nos 1 and 2. 3-5, elected by the Committee. They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. That concludes the votes. We will take a short break before we start the question debate. We'll resume the meeting when we get the technique in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219102950	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until tomorrow, Friday 20 December 2019. First of all, for a explanatory statement, it is the rapporteur for the questions put to us, Mr President. Martin Lidegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219103023	Thank you very much, President. Earlier this year, the Foreign Policy Name held a hearing in which we reviewed the results of the war investigation that came here in late summer. It was a very exciting hearing, which among other things. Following on from the conclusions that made it quite clear that the preparatory work and the whole basis of the two military missions with which the war was being conducted, namely the first Iraq mission and Afghanistan, but also the previous missions in the Balkans, could well have been better in some respects, and this provided the basis for a thorough discussion in the Foreign Policy Counsel. We agreed that the best way to take this matter forward in order to improve our joint cooperation on how we prepare military missions for Denmark would be to make a joint inquiry to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Defence, where hopefully we could learn more about how to prepare for it when Denmark is to send out military missions, thereby providing the best back cover for the men and women we send off on often dangerous missions. Therefore, on behalf of the questioners, who are all parties to the Folketing, I should like to thank the ministers for coming here today. We look forward very much to the debate, in which I have a vain hope of being able to lead to a proposal for adoption in which the whole parliament can see itself when we have to vote on it tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219103210	Thank you. And then we start with the answer. First it's the Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219103222	Thank you, President. And many thanks to the Foreign Ministers for calling today's question debate on the follow-up to the impartial analysis of the history of Denmark's military involvement in Kosovo, Iraq and Afghanistan. As you know, the purpose of the investigation was to identify the background to the political decisions on Denmark's participation in these wars. The investigation contains valuable learning, which provides important input in relation to our future work. Before we begin today's debate on this important subject, I would like to thank the authors Rasmus Mariager and Anders Wivel once again and to the many other contributors for a great and, I think, very important piece of work. The investigation provides a thorough and balanced review of the foundations for changing governments to go to war. These are decisions that have helped shape Danish foreign and security policy; decisions that have helped draw the world order that we have with us for good and evil today; decisions that have also had a high human cost for Danish men and women who have had to pay the highest price and for their relatives. It is therefore important that we have shed light on these processes. Decisions on military broadcasts are never easy, and differences can arise about the best way forward. It was and is my personal conviction that the decision to join the Iraq war was fatal and wrong, in which the investigation has only confirmed me. It was not a real decision, it was not a real process and there is a historical responsibility on those who were behind that decision. That is my clear position; I stand by it. Having said that, there must be no doubt that we, as elected politicians, take such decisions very seriously. The debates we have had so far in the follow-up to the investigation, both in closed and open forums, have also confirmed this to me, and I am pleased that all the parties in this Parliament today are behind the desire for a debate in this Chamber on future prospects. A good starting point for today's discussion on the follow-up to the investigation is its forward-looking recommendations and points of reflection. This is not least about the importance of an adequate basis for decision and close and confidential cooperation between the Folketing and the government in office at all times. It also contains an early and proper orientation of the Folketing of major foreign policy decisions. This is an important point which is very close to my heart as Foreign Minister, but also as former President of the Foreign Policy Name and as long-standing foreign policy rapporteur for my party, and it is an approach that I have made an effort to implement in practice in my time as Foreign Minister. One of the general criticisms of the report was precisely the fact that changing former governments took so-called, and I quote, minimalist information practices to the foreign policy name. That criticism mainly concerns decisions 15 to 20 years ago. Since then, fortunately, practice has developed and changed to a great extent. Today, therefore, there is a much more developed practice to include the Foreign Policy Name in the government's deliberations and decision-making basis, both in the past and in the course of the process. At the same time, I welcome this opportunity to explain the government's forward-looking priorities and actions in the follow-up to the war investigation. First of all, I would like to stress that it is absolutely essential for the government that cooperation with the Folketing, including the involvement of the Foreign Policy Name, is adequate and cannot be seen as minimalist when decisions are taken to issue military contributions. It is important that the involvement of the Folketing takes place early, continuously and actively. It is also an ambition that the dialogue should include strategic discussions on essential aspects of the broadcasts, including issues such as: purpose, means, impact, resources and exit strategy. One of the priorities I attach particular importance to is that we should have a thorough debate on how we can and do our military efforts with the other Danish foreign, security and development policy measures and priorities. As you know, according to the Constitution, it is the government that is in office at all times, which conducts Denmark's foreign policy, and I want to make it quite clear that this government and I, as Foreign Minister, intend to pursue an even very active foreign and security policy, because it serves Denmark's best interests and because it ensures stability and peace in the world and thus security and security at home. As Foreign Minister, it is my important task to conduct the foreign and security policy that serves Denmark's best interests. It is to navigate Denmark safely through the storms and stirred waters that may arise on the great ocean of the world. To this end, the government will always seek the widest possible support. We will seek involvement; we will take the debate; we will explain the problem and the government's assessment of the situation. We will reach out to all parties who will take an active responsibility for Denmark's position in the world. At the same time, I must say very clearly that the government will not adopt a certain number of mandates, which must be decisive for Denmark's ability to pursue the necessary foreign and security policy. The inclusion of Denmark's foreign and security policy must not be reduced to a question of numbers and fractions. It must and must be a political process and a political decision. The process and decisions that come out of it will strengthen this government in relation to previous practice. It is about early orientation, involvement and a substantial debate in the Foreign Policy Name. At the same time, I would like to stress that we, as a government, attach great importance to the fact that the decisions on security and defence policy always have a solid parliamentary foundation. This government will always endeavour to seek as broad a majority in the Folketing behind military broadcasts as possible. This is, of course, particularly true of decisions on the most sharp and complex missions. The efforts are also clearly borne out by the very broad support given to the military contribution proposed by the present government. Involvement of the Folketing in the issue of military contributions is an important priority for the government. Since the government came into office in June, we have therefore also endeavoured to include the Foreign Policy Name in the very initial stages of the government's deliberations on possible new Danish military contributions. In concrete terms, this has meant that the jury has been involved several times, even before the government itself has done its own job. I personally very much appreciate these discussions, which are also essential for shaping our own decisions. It is absolutely crucial that we can have a healthy democratic debate on a proper basis on the issues relating to national security and Denmark's position in the world. The Government will continue this practice and will also continue to include in future the Foreign Policy Name in relation to ongoing military operations of a significant nature. We would like to stress here that there will be not only status discussions but strategic discussions on essential aspects of the operations, including the development of countries and regions where Denmark is contributing with greater or sharp military contributions. At the same time, it is important to ensure that both the government and the Folketing constantly learn and gain a common understanding of the experiences we experience in the larger military efforts. A third step, therefore, I would like to highlight, is that the government intends to offer the Foreign Policy Name a thorough review of the interventions when significant Danish military contributions are taken home. That is why we are also continuing the initiative of the previous government to strengthen the internal capacity of the central administration, among other things. to ensure that experience and evaluations of Denmark's military interventions are more systematically involved when planning new interventions. This has now resulted in an injection of staff from the Ministry of Defence to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In addition to EU-NATO arms control, they must deal with the acquisition of experience in international operations. With these introductory words, I very much look forward to today's debate and very much hope that we can gather broad support for a proposal for adoption which will guide important security and defence policy decisions in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219104140	Thank you. It is now possible to put questions to the Minister here, but it is only from the general rapporteurs in the first place. So that's why it's first, sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219104150	The Foreign Minister says that Danish foreign policy should not be reduced to numbers and fractions. I think it was an unusually condescending comment, because it is precisely not just about numbers and fractions, but about something as important as sending Danish soldiers away at the risk of their losing their lives, it is to be expected that they have a solid majority behind them when they are sent off. So it is not because of numbers and fractions, but to give Danish soldiers the knowledge that they have an unconditional popular mandate. In the past, social democracy has supported the idea that we should have a two-thirds majority. So what is it that has changed from being something that was actually supported, which was part of the government base from 2011 to 2015, to that it now almost just brings a pull on the shoulder and becomes a question of numbers and fractions?
ParlaMint-DK_20191219104235	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219104236	So, what I clearly stated is that this government intends to pursue an active Danish foreign and security policy. So what is needed to ensure Denmark our security and our security interests in the world in which we live. And in this regard we will reach out to all parties in the Parliament from right to left and in the middle which would like to support us in that ambition. And that is why, of course, we are working to ensure that when we make decisions, it is done on the broadest possible basis. And I hope that responsible parties here in the Folketing will be ready to accept that offer of support for such important operations. But we're not gonna get stuck to some two-thirds majority. We believe that it is more important to look at how we get the right policy, which serves Denmark's interests, than to establish a certain fraction. It has nothing to do with how important the operations are; it's just in terms of how we do the process. So I also hope that the SF will be involved, as has been done many times, in ensuring in future that we can defend Denmark's foreign and security policy interests in the best way possible together.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219104343	Thank you. In the first place, it is only one brief remark and none subsequent. But I think we have some problems with the technique, because only one person has felt it. But now Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, anyway. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219104355	Well, thank you for that, President. And first of all I would like to say that the government should not be scolded for it to become wiser. Although some on the left might call it a broken election promise, I would just like to thank from here that one has gone away from the very square mathematical approach of a two-thirds majority. Because the position has to be that if there is a majority, it is a majority, and that means that you also have a popular mandate. And then there is a parliamentary mandate to make a difference. And that is why I would just like to say that it may well be that one's parliamentary basis may not be clear on an activist foreign policy, so I can say that we are on the Left side at least. We want to make a difference around the world, and not least when we can see that other countries, including the United States, are pulling away from the world, it is important that we from Europe and Denmark also make a difference. So this should just be meant as a positive recognition that the government has changed its attitude in relation to when it was in opposition.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219104451	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219104452	I think I said it very clearly: we want to pursue an active foreign and security policy, and we want to make every effort and effort to get the widest possible support in the Folketing to do so. We believe that the government currently in office has a huge obligation to do so, and I would also like to say that the process proposed here, with clear, systematic and better involvement of Foreign Policy Names, ensures that all information is complete and not minimalist. All of this is really important to this government. I think that if we share analyses, if we share information and if we do things together, we have an even better chance of getting a very broad majority behind operations. We can also see this in the lifetime of this government, because for the operations in which we have actually taken a position on the deployment of Danish military contributions, there has been broad support. So I hope that all parties will be involved in this, and I also hope that everyone will see that, as I said, we are working for the broadest possible support for our foreign and security policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219104552	Then it's Mrs. Eva Flyvholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219104554	Thank you. First of all, I would also like to comment on this with the majority, and I very much agree with Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge in that this two-thirds majority when you go to war is important. It is a very serious decision to make when sending people to war, and that is why I think it is sensible to ensure that there is very clear political support for it and a thorough discussion of it. I am sorry that the Secretary of State no longer agrees with that. However, what I would like to ask is what is at stake here is the collection of experience and evaluations when you have been at war. That is one of the things I think has been missing far along the way. At the latest, we are also sorry that the Iraq and Afghanistan Commission did not come into being. However, with regard to this collection of experience, I would like to say that it is a good thing that there is an orientation in the report, but from our perspective it is also a question of having, as far as possible, a public learning curve, that is to say, a discussion in the Folketing and also a discussion in the people about what we have learned from these wars, how to move forward and how to avoid making mistakes in the future. What is the Foreign Minister's view of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20191219104658	Minister of Foreign Affairs, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219104700	Firstly, I do not think there is any disagreement between us and the Enhedslisten that the clear intention of broad parliamentary support is a joint intention, I hope. However, that an arbitrary majority threshold should be decisive, I do not think can stand in the way of the necessary and proper Danish foreign and security policy, which will take care of Denmark and safeguard our interests. Well, there may be some disagreement here. It is true and important that we should have a debate, and that is why the war investigation itself is also something that is very good about it. I mean, it's a really thorough piece of work with good conclusions, but also recommendations on how we can make it better in the future together. We must also have an important public debate on the wars in which we have been involved. And I think it is essential and crucial in a well-functioning democracy that we take the debates and, of course, make them as open as we can, with respect for the fact that there can be information that is treated confidentially and that therefore also requires a special role for, among others, for. Foreign policy Name.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219104758	We thank the Secretary of State. There are no more brief comments. And then it's the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219104810	First of all, thank you for calling this question debate. This is a very important issue, and I am pleased that, in the name of democracy, we will be able to discuss it here in the Chamber on top of the war investigation, on top of the excellent meeting we had about the same a few months ago. Not surprisingly, I fully agree with the approach outlined by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and also with the actions he outlined, because these are measures that can help to strengthen the political dialogue on our international military operations. I think that the dialogue is good today, but that we can and must always do better. The government wants good and constructive cooperation with room for thorough discussions, both among rapporteurs in the conciliation circle, in the jury and in the Parliamentary Chamber, and preferably of a very political nature. This must help us to make as good and considered decisions as possible. And this is particularly important when the Folketing has to make decisions to send our soldiers to the world's hotspots at the risk of paying the highest price. Such decisions must never be taken lightly by Parliament as a whole. The recommendations of the war investigation have given the government cause for reflection and for concrete action. There are a number of issues that I think it is worth pointing out when we discuss the recommendations of the investigation in relation to military operations. In relation to the ongoing orientation and dialogue with the Danish Parliament, there is room for improvement. In the government, we want open and transparent cooperation and the involvement of the Folketing as far as possible in terms of contributions to military operations. This is also how we have tried to act in our first months, and it is not only where we are obliged to do so, but also beyond that. Transparency and transparency are the clear starting points, because it gives us the best opportunities for discussion. The dialogue usually takes place in the Foreign Policy Name, where all the parties of the Folketing are represented. Here it is important to be able to have a confidential and honest dialogue on military contributions. From the first day, we have put great emphasis on this. At the same time, it is clear and it is also part of today's discussions that the previous mention will be included, the more difficult it will be for the government and for us, as ministers, to respond precisely to all the questions put by the parties of the Danish Parliament, especially about the specific military circumstances in which there are ongoing developments when one is in the early stages. Thus, by early involvement, even before the government has done its own job internally, there are limits to how many concrete details the government and we as ministers can bring to the parties of the Folketing in the Name. And it is not of malicious will, but it is a basic condition when we, as ministers, place emphasis on early involvement of the jury and that it takes place openly when it comes to sending out Danish military contributions. So it is just a comment and a hope that there is an understanding that it is a basic condition when we discuss the early involvement. The explanation also points to the need for a clear focus on e.g.: goals, means, effects and exit options. These are elements that are included as integral parts of the government's analysis when we decide on the deployment of Danish military contributions. However, in the case of military operations, it must also be borne in mind that developments in the field often do not follow the military plan put in place from the start of military action. The objectives and the success criteria often change along the way, and the opponent also has his own political and military agendas and constantly changes tactics. In addition, today's armed conflicts often have many both state and non-state actors with different agendas and changing alliances. One can only look at Syria as an example, where it is difficult to predict developments • who are the parties on which side of the conflict today, and who is it tomorrow? The development of the land is thus not dictated by the Danish effort alone, which is why I personally attach great importance to and appreciate the ongoing involvement of the Foreign Policy Name in the development of the countries where we have sent out major military contributions. There must be room to take stock of the situation and, if necessary, make changes to our military engagement depending on developments. Our sendees deserve sustained political support for the efforts of the soldiers at the sharp end. It should also be remembered that no military operation is the same. There are different opponents, different collaborators and different mandates, and we send out various military contributions from Denmark. We see these years that the threats are becoming increasingly complex, both politically and militarily. There is always experience from previous operations that we can learn from when we look forward to new deployments every time we participate in military operations, and therefore I am also pleased that the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have chosen to strengthen our cooperation with a joint office. We will increase our opportunities to gather experience and carry out evaluations of Denmark's military efforts. This work must ensure that we in the government and in the Folketing are even better dressed and prepared for future military efforts. It is important to me that we continue to learn and better to see the challenges we face. When it comes to the deployment of Danish soldiers, as I said, the government attaches great importance to seeking as broad parliamentary support as possible for military broadcasts. I stress good cooperation with all the parties of the Folketing, whether you are part of the conciliation circle or not. I want to include and share knowledge where it makes sense, and I am therefore pleased that we have the opportunity today in this Chamber to discuss some of the important issues that I believe the war investigation raises. Thank you for the floor; I look forward to a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219105511	We'll start with a few questions. First, it's sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219105515	I think the Secretary of Defense should have a chance to resolve the question that I put to the Secretary of State, but which we never came to. The fog spread in the Foreign Minister's reply, and that is precisely why I would just like to ask: what are the reasons why the Socialists have changed their position in relation to whether a two-thirds majority should be required to send Danes to war abroad?
ParlaMint-DK_20191219105534	In any case, it is clear to me, after six months of being Minister for Defence, that there is a very large difference between the broadcasts we have. Some are of more of, you might say, a staffing nature, where it is about office contributions, i.e. strategic interventions, while others are out at the sharp end. So there is a marked difference between the contributions we send. Some have an extreme political complexity, while others lie, I do not know whether one can use the concept right to the right. I never think one should do that when it comes to sending out soldiers at least politically, and that is why I think it makes sense, in fact, to grade the stakes and estimate that there are so many contributions that there must be no doubt that there must be broad support and that there are other contributions that are smaller, that have a different complexity and that do not need the same support.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219105633	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219105635	Well, on that logic, I would like to ask the Secretary of Defense what kind of operations they would like to receive from the two-thirds majority. We agreed earlier on the Iraq war that it would have been good to have secured a proper majority. The Social Democrats have thought so too, and that is why we have pointed to the two-thirds majority as a guide for it. So what kind of operations could it be, and would it not make sense to use the two-thirds majority in this context?
ParlaMint-DK_20191219105706	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219105707	Well, I think there's a big difference between sending a really big contribution all the way to the sharp end and sending one to two staff officers to an office. I think there's a big difference. The risks of the contributions we send are different. I think we see the same thing about the contributions that were sent to Iraq and Afghanistan in relation to the majority, but there is a difference between that and one to two staff officers.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219105741	Then it's mr. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219105745	Yes, it is actually more a comment than a question, but that is also what this is called: a brief remark. So I actually think it's okay to come along. I would like to thank the Minister for Defence for the government's decision to make an earlier involvement of the jury, and I would also like to express an understanding of that, and I think we should also bear in mind that when we do so, it also has the consequence that the government does not necessarily know everything and that we do not have complete control of the situation. We must then learn to recognise this, because we tend to expect that when the government comes and tells something in the Name, it is checked in all sorts of different ways. So it is a gift to the Name, but also something that we must of course be aware of becomes our responsibility in this respect.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219105831	I'd like to say to Mr. Søren Espersen that we are in every way within the Rules of Procedure by making a comment. You can then choose to ask a question. So it was entirely in the spirit of the Rules of Procedure. Is there a comment from the Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20191219105844	I would just like to say that some of what I have actually been looking forward to in this debate today is not just having to answer questions, but also listening to the kicks that are coming. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219105856	Then it's Michael Aastrup Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219105857	I must admit that I am confused at a higher level when I hear the answer both to Mrs Flyvholm and to Mr Flyvholm. Karsten Hønge, namely that there is obviously a difference in the majority of military operations, because that is what the Minister has now said twice in this Chamber. I thought that the government had become wiser since the opposition period and that now a majority was a majority and that, of course, the widest possible majority would be sought. All right, but now it is that the Minister for Defence is opening up that there is obviously a difference in the definition of how broad such a majority should be. So I just have to admit that I'm confused at a very high level, and we'll have to try to ask something deeper about that. I therefore hope that the Minister for Defence will now conclude that a majority is a majority and that, of course, the widest possible majority will be sought, but that it will then be the same in relation to all military operations.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219105943	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219105945	But I really don't think there's any reason to be confused. In fact, I also think that this debate is far too important to play now we're teasing the Minister. There is no doubt that the broadest possible majority it was all about my speech is always preferable. Otherwise, there was no reason to involve and, for my part, as Minister of Defence, to go beyond the conciliation circle. If I didn't want to, I could just ignore those who weren't part of the conciliation circle. So I think it is a basic premise that broad involvement must always be the prerequisite for us to take decisions here in the Folketing, and it is certainly a wish that there are as many mandates behind it as possible. I have been proud of the recent contributions we have adopted, in which it has been a largely unified Parliament that has been behind the soldiers we are sending out. However, there may also be differences in contributions, as I have just said, i.e. on this, for example. is about one to two staff officers to be sent out in a place where there may be a political complexity which means that the majority is smaller but is still present or whether it is the big broadcasts at the sharp end.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219110054	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219110055	This isn't the Minister, it's to understand what the Minister is saying. But compared to this, with the difference between what it is, the big bets: is that where you need two thirds? I mean, because I'm very concerned that we may actually be, it's very formalistic that makes some rules, because we can see with the explanation that much is going on as informally as it does. Then, in relation to the big stakes, the Minister is in favour of setting up rules that say: well, we have to have a two-thirds majority when, for example, we have to have a two-thirds majority. must send soldiers, and this is not about two staff officers, but about the bigger stakes?
ParlaMint-DK_20191219110129	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219110131	I think the Foreign Minister replied quite well to that; it is also with him that it will then have to be discussed further. So I would suggest that you address him under the line.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219110140	We would like to thank the Minister for Defence at this time, and then we will begin the negotiations themselves and thus also the general rules for short remarks. First of all, it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219110154	Denmark is one of the countries in the world that relatively contributes most to military missions abroad. We are doing this under the auspices of NATO, under the auspices of the United Nations, and we are doing it both at the sharp end and we are doing it war prevention and stabilising. And we must recognise that it has been with mixed experiences and mixed results. Military missions may be necessary as a last resort, including: in the case of the obligation to protect people who are victims of violence, that is, for humanitarian reasons. But we must also recognise that it is very rare to call military missions an unconditional success, because even when it meets its purpose, the military operation itself creates new problems and conflicts which must be dealt with afterwards. It's hard to do well, even when it's necessary. One of the prerequisites for the overall positive contribution to a new development is that one has prepared oneself very, very thoroughly before going in because peace, as we know, is so much harder to win than war is. And we have to admit, when we read the war investigation that the question today is about that this has not always been the case, and that we have had examples of sending out Danish soldiers without having prepared ourselves well enough for what we would actually do afterwards, what the purpose was, what the overall strategy should lead to, how we should get out of it again and overall have done best. As far as I am concerned, there is no doubt that where there is the greatest cause for criticism when one has read the war investigation, there is in connection with the first Iraq war, where many things could have been better prepared and where the outcome and exit strategy were almost totally absent. And that is why this debate is extremely important; it is important to learn from our mistakes if Denmark is to continue to be a country that contributes when necessary. On the part of the Radicals, I would like to stress that, just as it is important to have a broad majority when sending people out, and it is also for us that we are also among the parties who would have liked to have seen a political agreement which simply he was simply saying that we should preferably have two thirds of the parliament with us when we send Danish soldiers to war. It is also important for us that we can gather a broad majority today. That is why we, as the authors of the motion for a resolution, have been involved in negotiating a proposal for adoption, which can bring together a broad majority in the Folketing, and hopefully even wider when we vote on it. And what we have emphasized in the negotiations is that the Folketing and the Foreign Policy Name will be involved very early in the deliberations and on an adequate basis, as both ministers have also stressed. And perhaps most importantly that both the purpose, the overall strategy, also in all the non-military tracks, and the exit strategy when we enter are clear. It is a huge responsibility to put on not only the shoulders of a government, but also on the shoulders of the Danish Parliament, because it is not always so easy to predict what you are going into. But at least you must have made some ideas about how to do it well, not just with the military invasion itself, but also with the other efforts you make. In the fight against ISIL, we did a great deal of work on this, and there we must also say that in Iraq at least a number of people have been able to free themselves from the yoke of the Islamic State and start a development that is not clearly positive, but, overall, it must be said, has contributed to a better situation in Iraq. It is also important to learn from the experience that both ministers have mentioned, in other words that we have open evaluations where we dare to talk about what has gone well and badly. If we take such a mission as Afghanistan, which had a broad majority behind it in the Folketing, then I think it is an open discussion to this day whether it was all worth it overall. There is no doubt that we have done very well. We got rid of the Taliban for a period of time and this will give an entire generation of Afghans the opportunity to go to school, not least the girls. However, it is also clear, when we look at developments in Afghanistan today, that we risk losing everything again. There's nothing easy here either. Overall, we are co-sponsors of a proposal for adoption, which a broad majority is behind and which I shall now read out in a moment. And I would like to repeat that the only thing we are not entirely happy with in the proposal for adoption is that we could not attract the other proposers to a two-thirds political agreement. However, we are pleased that the proposal for adoption has indicated that the government currently in office should seek broad support for the efforts of the Folketing. It is incredibly rare that there is not a broad majority when we send out missions, and in fact the only example I can come up with is where there has not been, in other words, the first Iraq war. And that is why I think it would be easy to make such an agreement without it dragging anyone, if I may say so, very tight suit down on a government, but just so that we could avoid it. But we have put the emphasis on finding a proposal for adoption for which we could get a broad majority, and I am overall really, really happy with the proposal for adoption that I am now reading on behalf of Social Democracy, the Left, the Danish People's Party, Radical Left, Conservative, Liberal Alliance, New Citizens and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG), and this is how it sounds: Proposals for adoption • As a follow-up to the war investigation • Why did Denmark go to war? The Danish Parliament calls on the Government to ensure early, continuous and full involvement of the Danish Parliament in decisions on Danish participation in international military operations, where both the purpose of the Danish contribution, the overall strategy of linking to other non-military tracks and planned exit strategies are described. To this end, the Folketing shall at all times invite the Government in office, on the basis of the intended purpose, to give a thorough review and evaluation of the activities of the Foreign Policy Name when a major contribution from an international operation has been withdrawn or every five years for long-term contributions. In view of the nature of Danish participation in international operations, the Folketing considers that the current government should seek broad support for the efforts of the Folketing. • V 42)
ParlaMint-DK_20191219110840	Thank you. And that will now be part of the further debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219110856	Thank you for that, President. Today we are discussing why Denmark went to war. This is, of course, a very important issue, especially when it comes to sending out military missions in the future, because what lessons have been learned from previous wars? Every day we make tough decisions here in the Folketing, but the hardest decisions are, at least for me, when we send people to war. Then it's really, really hard to press the yes button, not because I don't support the mission, because I've done that every time I press the yes button, but because I also live in a garrison town, in Holstebro. Here we have a lot of soldiers. I've been head of the department for a big city school where the barracks were close. That's why I've had a lot of students through school who've had parents who've been sent out. So when I press the button, I also think about the people who are just being sent out, and therefore the difficult decisions are, and therefore we have to think very carefully here in the Folketing. It is the case that in the Social Democratic Party we felt it was a pity that the Commission of Inquiry into Iraq and Afghanistan was set up. We do not think it was a good idea that we would not spend time and effort on this in the previous government. The compromise was then these four volumes about why Denmark went to war, by Mariager and Wivel. I think there are a great many good calls and conclusions in them, but I am particularly sensitive to two things. One is the end of the Iraq war, and in the Social Democratic Party we still believe that the end, as the Foreign Minister said, was fatal and wrong. And the war was decided by a very narrow majority, and that is what we think was wrong. Another conclusion in the book is that there has been minimalist information practice in relation to the Foreign Policy Name. Now I have only been rapporteur in the field of foreign policy for six months, but I think that we are seeing very, very good and comprehensive information in the area of foreign policy. Sometimes we have even received information about things that the government has not taken a position on when it comes to the matter, and I think that this shows that there will be closer and earlier involvement in relation to relevant information in terms of military engagements. I also see that the government comes and tells us in the Foreign Policy Name when they want to have advice, and I also see that, under strict confidentiality, of course, information is given about the thinking of other countries, so that we can have strategic discussions in the Name, which we can help to use when we have to make the right choices ourselves. Then I also have a really good dialogue between us rapporteurs. In fact, when we have to draft texts for adoption, I think that we are talking properly across the whole of the Folketing, and the times I have been involved in making proposals for adoption, it has been by a very broad majority about difficult decisions. In the social democracy, we want this broad majority, and we also want there to be broad support. It is the case that there are three things the government has committed itself to. It is precisely a closer and earlier involvement in the mention of relevant information about military events; then it is to strengthen the internal capacity of the Ministry, and it has already happened with the new government; and then it is this that we have to learn from past missions. So it is also so now, I think, that when we go to war, it is often the case that military operations go hand in hand with humanitarian aid. And I think that's really, really important that we have this clutch. This is important because winning the war may be the easiest thing, while winning the peace is really difficult. So what do we do when we leave the war or military operations? That is precisely what we may need to look at in the future as well. Do they live on a rock, or do they need a pump to live a normal life? It is very important that we also focus on this. I know the world burns a lot of places. We are going to send out military operations in the future too and, as the Foreign Minister said, we want us to have an active security and foreign policy in Denmark. Our government will be at the forefront of this, and I think it also shows this clearly. In the Social Democratic Party we support the proposal for adoption which Mr. Martin Lidegaard just finished reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219111359	Thank you. There are brief comments. First, it's sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219111403	I certainly think that Mrs Annette Lind should have the opportunity to answer the question where the answer is still fluttering in the wind: why have the Socialists changed their position in relation to the importance of having a two-thirds majority behind sending Danish soldiers to war? In the past, it has even been part of the government base, since the Social Democratic Party was last in government. So what is the reason for changing its mind?
ParlaMint-DK_20191219111424	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219111425	Actually, I think we've learned a lot from this investigation. We have learned that a narrow majority when going to war is a bad thing. And that's why we're also looking for broad support when Denmark is going to participate in these military operations. Sir. Martin Lidegaard said that he could only remember once where there was no two-thirds majority. I have asked in the ministry, and it is actually twice in 30 years, and it goes without saying that twice in 30 years, when Iraq is one, is very, very little. I am 100% sure that we have a government that seeks the widest possible majority when we agree. So even if it's this random size of 75%, it's not the most important thing for us. The most crucial thing for us is to pursue an active foreign and security policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219111516	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219111517	Well, I was very pleased with Mrs Annette Linds's answer, because that is one long explanation why we should have two-thirds majority voting which is, by the way, not 75%, is it? That was one long explanation of why it is important, because we have had the certainty in the past that we actually had it, and it was not in the situation where the war investigation explains that it led to dramatic wrong decisions, namely to go to war in 2003 and that it was on such a narrow basis that the Socialists were also opposed. So I heard Mrs Annette Lind's reply as a support for us to make a limit; even if it should be 75%. Or two thirds, I'm willing to negotiate.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219111551	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219111553	Well, I just wanted to say that I wasn't a math teacher when I was a teacher. That's 66 percent. It is the case that we are seeking the widest possible majority, and I think that we have a good dialogue in the area of foreign policy, as I also said in my rapporteur's speech. I think that when we look for and make texts for adoption, we do it as widely as possible, and often and often we have all been involved, and it looks like it is going to be very broad here. So I think we can actually talk about these things and that is why we are looking for the widest possible majority and not a random size.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219111626	Sir. Jens Rohde, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219111627	I am in the rare situation of saying that I fully agree with Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge today. Now I am probably the one in the room who has the most shares in that first Iraq war, and that is not something I say proudly, on the contrary. The whole story of that war is exactly how backwards you can get into it all. I myself experienced this because I had to be rapporteur. And I'm being briefed the same day we're going to deal with it. It just tells me a little about, if you really go through the whole process to this, where fatal it can be when things go too fast, and when you start making decisions that are so because what happens, Mrs Annette Lind, is that those who are then deployed become hostages in a political discussion in the Folketing. It is good that Mrs Annette Lind has confidence in her government. I didn't expect anything else either. It is good that there is a good dialogue in the foreign policy name and between the defence rapporteurs. It is excellent, but the statute has to ensure that when dialogue is not good and when association is not good, you have rules that you abide by.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219111743	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Annette Lind.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219111744	I agree with much of what the rapporteur says, in terms of confidence and in terms of seeking the widest possible majority. The fact is that we felt it was wrong to enter the Iraq war with a narrow majority, and we will not do so in the future. We want a broad majority, but the question is whether it should be two thirds or whether it should be a tiny bit less. I think it is too fixed a figure of two thirds, and that is why we will always seek the widest possible majority. It's happened twice for 30 years. I believe that when we send military missions in the future, we will be able to bring together a very, very broad majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219111826	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219111827	Well, Mrs Annette Lind, this is not about Mrs Annette Lind's government or the current Foreign Minister. With all due respect, it is not certain that the Prime Minister is Mrs Mette Frederiksen and comes from the Social Democratic Party in the future. Majority can change, and you never know what the future holds. That is what we need to make sure of, and not whether Mrs Annette Lind has confidence in her own government, and what you stand and can commit yourself on the platform of all honour and respect for it. But it is, after all, a question of making sure that it never does.What exactly does the Social Democrats change their attitude?
ParlaMint-DK_20191219111913	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Annette Lind.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219111914	Well, I actually think it's been explained really well. I think we should have this active security and foreign policy; we should have a very, very broad discussion. All of this today is precisely what we need to do in the future when we have to send out missions, and that is why we need to have the dialogue. We want a very, very broad majority, and that should not be a narrow majority. A broad majority is not a fictional figure of 66 per cent.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219111941	Then it's Mrs. Eva Flyvholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219111943	First of all, I would like to thank you for a very fine speech by the rapporteur. I also very much agree that it was really a pity and a mistake for the Iraqi and Afghanistan Commission to be shut down, but I also have to comment on what the rapporteur says, namely that the war investigation was the compromise that came out of it. I have to admit, I totally disagree with that. I see that the war investigation was something that the bourgeois parties who killed the Iraq and Afghanistan Commission pulled out of their hats to have an excuse to bury the truth they did not want to hear. It is still my opinion that there are very, very important issues that have not been addressed at all in this war investigation. That's what they write themselves. That is, for example, the case. the question of the responsibility for prisoners detained and tortured, the question of whether the Iraq war was legal at all and, in any case, the question of the possibility of testifying to some of the key figures, particularly in relation to the Iraq war. There is no way of doing that here. Can the rapporteur not see that it would actually be nice that we still had the opportunity to get to the bottom of these fundamental issues?
ParlaMint-DK_20191219112051	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219112052	Thank you for the question. I very much agree with you on this point. I am. I think it was wrong to put an end to that commission of inquiry into Iraq and Afghanistan. Whether it was the word compromise that was the wrong word to use, I shall not be able to say, but at least I would say that it is well-lit and well-described what has happened in the historical process. So if it is not the word compromise that can be used, it can be said that the course is well described and well-lit for posterity.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219112117	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219112119	I fully agree that there are elements here that can be used as such a historical overview, and of course we must also use that. But the whole question of prisoners is still missing, the whole question of the legality of the Iraq war, which has not been dealt with here at all. That is why we have pointed out from the Enhedslisten side, together with the Alternative, SF and Radicals, that we actually still want to have these things examined. So I cannot understand if the Social Democrats do not believe that there is a need, for example. To investigate what happened to the prisoners. So I would actually very much like an indication that we could not still dive into any of this because there are some things that have not been clarified at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219112156	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219112157	As I said, we also felt it was wrong to close down the Commission and not to spend time and effort on it. That's the way it is. I'm not so sure if we're gonna go ahead with things. But ask the same question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs when he gets back to the platform, because then you can probably get a full answer there.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219112215	Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219112218	Thank you. I'm gonna save that question for the Secretary of State and ask you something else, and that's in relation to this investigation. I think that what is so clear to me is the problem of the fact that a great deal is going on informally, in other words that there are no formal frameworks and rules that we stick to, but that it is, like conversations in various offices that really determine when it is that we enter into war and conflict. That is why I just have to ask again: does the Social Democrats not believe that there is a need for strict rules? Because if you just say the widest possible majority, the question is how narrow it can be. How narrow can the widest possible majority be?
ParlaMint-DK_20191219112301	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219112302	Well, actually, I think there were two things in the question. One is about informal discussions. In fact, I think that informal discussions are very good. After all, we use this every day when we make texts for adoption and when we make compromises in conciliation circles and so on. So informal discussions seem to me to have come to stay. The second, which was in the investigation, was that it was recommended that a cross-cutting analysis unit be set up in the central administration. I thought that was a little different from that. We have decided in the Social Democratic Party that we do not want to count directly on how large a majority must be in order to be broad. We would rather pursue the active policy of involving all parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219112345	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219112347	Surprising answer: Informal is good. Informally, there is where you stand and can make the agreements in relation to what you can call the widest possible. It is so little undefined by the Social Democratic Party what is widest possible. It's 51 percent.? It was as broad as possible in that round. But a real and perhaps formalistic approach to where to go And as Mrs Annette Lind also says, it is very few times that we have not had that very majority when we have done so. So why are we so afraid of making rules that actually ensure that in the few cases you cannot bypass a broad majority?
ParlaMint-DK_20191219112427	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219112428	I have been rapporteur for education for many years, and there we have had a great many fixed targets on how things should be for example. Inclusion and many other things, and then you find out that the general goal figure is very, very difficult to achieve or to strive for. Therefore, a firm goal may not be the right way to do things. A broad majority is what we in the Social Democratic Party want in the future, even when we send out military missions.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219112505	Thank you to Mrs Annette Lind. There are no more brief comments, and that is why we move on to Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219112519	Thank you for that and, above all, thank you to the ministers for their replies so far. I would then like to continue in the positive spirit, which the Foreign Minister mentioned in particular, in which he praised, on behalf of the government, the war investigation and the very good work. We on the Left would like to do the same. We think it was quite the right decision to have such a good historical basis for not just one war, but actually several wars, which have, of course, laid the foundations for what at least a very broad majority has wanted Denmark to do, namely pursue an activist foreign policy. We also clearly share what is the lesson from the war investigation, namely that we must ensure the involvement of the Folketing as quickly as possible and as thoroughly as possible. That is why the previous government has already started to do so. One example that can be discussed now is when the Barkhane operation was discussed, where the then government already took it up in Foreign Policy Name very, very early in the process. We think it is very good if we can continue this in a more formalised spirit and, above all, ensure that it is always by the widest possible majority that the Folketing decides to send soldiers into battle. I have been in the Folketing for approx. 141⁄2 years, and I fully share the view that others have also mentioned that the hardest decision that can be made as a member of parliament is to vote in favour of sending soldiers into a hard operation. All in all, we are in the situation where we now have to look at what we can do to learn from the various operations as well. It is also very good that, in the light of what the previous government started, the present government is continuing its analysis work. I also share the view and therefore we are also in the proposal for adoption that we should now also do the evaluation work in Foreign Policy Name and, of course, also look at what should then be of possible publication thereafter. So it's really positive. I also think it is worth noting that, of course, we do not always agree on the various operations. I have been rapporteur for foreign affairs for a number of years now, and that is why I remember operations where we disagreed. I also remember operations where it was a completely unanimous Parliament when we voted, and then there was a party that then changed its mind. That is how it is in a parliamentary democracy like ours, which is why there must also be room for disagreement, but I just think it would be very problematic if, in a democracy like ours, we were to say that a majority is not a majority. The electorate has determined what it is they think the majority should be. One can then have good views as to whether the present majority is a good majority or not, but we recognise how the electorate has now composed the Folketing. That is why I am very pleased that the Social Democratic Party has changed its mind. In fact, before the elections, a two-thirds majority was stared at very blindly. I think it would be extremely wrong to start operating in this way with different decisions where a majority would not be a majority in the usual sense. So we only welcome and are really, really happy about that. That, I think, will be the words of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219112854	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Jens Rohde. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219112856	Thank you. At the time of the Iraq war, we also said that we had a broad majority because we had 61 votes behind the proposal. It was the Left Story at the time that we actually thought that we had a broad majority, although it was not a broad circle of parties, and that is why it is interesting to reject the more formal discussion on what a majority is, how the Left today defines a broad majority as a prerequisite for international action and sending soldiers to war.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219112935	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219112936	It is the widest possible majority, but if necessary it will be a majority according to purely mathematical model.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219112942	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219112943	But then we are straight on, and so the Left has learned nothing from the history of 2003, unfortunately. I think that what we did back then calls for a little reflection on many fronts, without any such condemnation. And as I said, I take my own responsibility. What I do not understand when it comes to rejecting the possibility of having a different majority is that we are used to it in the European Union. As I know, the Left is still a warm supporter of the European Union, and the Left is also arguing that the defence reserve should be lifted, and then one might ask: does the Left believe that it should move to a simple majority instead of a qualified majority? Because at EU level, a majority is a majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219113031	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219113033	I have to admit that I did not sit in the Folketing at the time when it was decided to enter the Iraq War, as the questioner did, but I have nevertheless entered our archives and have found out what we were really giving the members of the Left to justify why we did it. I have a complete internal document which was sent out to all the members of the Left, including probably the then political rapporteur, who clearly states that weapons of mass destruction are not the main argument for entering the Iraq war, and that is dated 22 October 2003. So that is exactly what was held to at the time, which I can obviously understand, that the then political rapporteur has changed his mind about since then. That is fair enough, but it is still the clear view of what the explanatory statement was then.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219113121	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219113123	The decision to engage in Libya, which led to the emergence of a vacuum of power in Libya, was taken by a very broad majority, so I should just like to ask whether the rapporteur agrees with me that a very broad majority is not a protection against bad decisions being taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219113144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219113144-2	I fully agree with that, but I do not agree, on the other hand, that our commitment to Libya was wrong if it was in the premise. I myself had the opportunity to visit Benghazi twice during the civil war, and one of the times I was able to see how close the tanks of Gaddafi were to reach Benghazi, and I am glad that we went in and secured the civilian population in Benghazi and the surrounding area. What was the fault of the whole NATO was that it did not go in and secure peace thereafter, but that is a completely different discussion. But I agree with the premise that just because there is a majority behind it, it is not necessarily always the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219113219	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219113220	For the sake of good order, there were probably two tempos, for Benghazi was motivated by the Responsibility to Protect, and the follow-up then came the bad decision to go further and try to influence a regime change. After all, it always makes sense to discuss.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219113239	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219113240	That is absolutely correct, and I can still remember the night when the Foreign Minister was then the Foreign Secretary of the Socialist Party, and I was the foreign rapporteur for the Left, and we were also other different politicians at the time, and I think there is still a broad consensus in the Folketing that this was the right decision on the short track, but that we should have dealt with it differently in the long run.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219113258	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219113259	Well, following on from that, I would like to say that I think Libya, for example, is a very good example of how things can go really wrong. One thing is that you went in and supported defending Benghazi against the attack that was about to get there. I was in favour of that, too, but that you bombed all the way to Tripoli and removed Gaddafi by force in the way you did, there was no evidence to do in relation to the UN decisions that were there. And I do not think that was wise either, because when you look at the whole area now, it is extremely unstable, both Libya and all the countries around it. And that is why I would really like to hear an assessment from the rapporteur, because when you look at Iraq, when you look at Afghanistan, when you look at Libya and the whole area around it, does the rapporteur think that the wars in which Denmark has been involved in the way that we have helped to bring peace and stability to Iraq, Afghanistan and Libya? It is not my view that we have peace and stability in any of those countries now, but I would like to hear the rapporteur's take on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219113359	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219113400	And now I get 1 minute to do that, so thank you for that. But I would say that in relation to the various military conflicts we have been in, I think it was the right decision. Were mistakes made? Yes, it did. But if we take them one by one in relation to that, I think it was clearly the right thing to do, both in relation to Afghanistan, where we had Article 5, which was activated by the United States in relation to the 11 September 2001 attack, when we were supposed to have a military terrorist threat removed, and in relation to Iraq, where we clearly believed that Saddam Hussein had broken a large number of UN resolutions. At the same time, I also believe that we should mention that sometimes it costs something when you do nothing. And that is where I think Syria is a very good example. I am, of course, one of those who is really sorry that President Obama did not stick to the red line and that we could not therefore go in and mark that when using chemical warfare against his own people, it must also have military consequences, according to what we talked about earlier, with 'Responsibility to Protect', namely that the UN countries have a responsibility to go in and save civilian populations from massacres.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219113511	Then it is Mrs Eva Flyvholm on the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219113513	Now the rapporteur says that he thinks it was right for us to do so, but I still believe that we owe each other and the people involved so much to the fact that there is an extremely unstable situation in those countries; in both Iraq, Afghanistan and Libya there is total chaos. I think it is important to recognise this and also to learn from the problems and mistakes that have been made. That is actually why I am asking about it, because I think it is important to admit that there are problems that actually exist and that we do not make an estimate of it. So I would just like to give the rapporteur the opportunity to do so in half a minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219113555	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219113556	Well, thank you. But I don't recognize that I've been trying to draw a beautiful painting. So, in all the many debates that have been over the years, I have not tried to say that the world looks better than it is, because it is and we have experienced setbacks in a large number of areas where we should not have done so, but I just think clearly that the alternative was worse. And that is what the whole discussion is about. Foreign policy is also sometimes forced to weigh up the solutions and find the best possible solution. And there it is not always going to be a great good solution, but the best possible solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219113627	Thank you. And then no one else has any comments. Then it's mr. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219113642	I thank the Ministers for their replies. In my speech, I would particularly like to address two aspects of the whole problem: the first concerns the extent to which a strategy can be drawn up before sending soldiers to war; and the second relates to why there are still Danish soldiers in Iraq after 16 years and in Afghanistan after 18 years and what we can learn from it. But first of all, I would like to make it clear that the Danish People's Party will never support the idea that there should be a two-thirds majority in the Folketing before the deployment of soldiers. Paragraph 19 of the Constitution speaks of the consent of the Folketing, and the consent of the Folketing is obtained by majority voting. Something else is so that it is good to have a broad majority, but that is the way it is with everything in here. So it is actually a praise to the government because you have changed your mind. In relation to the first, many people have criticized the fact that a strategy has not been put in place in good time before a war broadcast is launched before going to war. Some would actually think that broadcasting can only take place when you have the entire military course in place. I do not think that is possible. Modern warfare is very different from all of us, we all know that from times when two countries' great armies at dawn as agreed met on the battlefield for the final showdown, and where both sides had practically in place what would happen if one won. Today, in each of the wars we are involved in, perhaps 10-12 different groupings, which may have widely differing territorial, ethnic or religious requirements. If this is the case, I find only the idea of drawing up a complete strategy, including an exit strategy, illusory. Maybe at best we can look a few months ahead. In addition, NATO or others are often asked for rapid deployment where there is no time for either assessments or strategies. For example, it was with the war in Libya, where the air force made such an impressive effort after a few days of preparation. When all this is the case, I believe that we politicians are doing ourselves a huge service when we say yes to broadcasting, just to create a reasonably loose framework for defence to operate in; and, of course, it is in the nature of the matter, with frequent and thorough reporting to the Foreign Policy Name. My second commitment today is about why we are still in the wars after so many years. My own view is that, when the enemy was virtually defeated, instead of saying goodbye and thanks, we started a long, impossible missionary struggle to establish democracy for peoples who did not want our form of government at all. Yes, these are peoples who actually despise our democracy and everything that the Western world stands for, and where many of the leading politicians actually only play along with our song because it gives them an opportunity for personal financial gain. So that must be my final appeal. In future, let us confine ourselves to effectively combating regimes that threaten or attack the West, and let people decide in peace their own form of government, whether we like it or not. I must inform you that the Danish People's Party supports the broad proposal for adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219114040	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219114045	Basically, I do not agree with the rapporteur's approach in relation to this, with the maximum. can look a few months ahead when you go to war and that you have to take it kind of ad hoc. It is, of course, fundamental that we need to have a sensible analysis of the situation in the country we are moving into. It is fundamental that you have a picture of where you want to go and what is going on. Otherwise, you're sure it's gonna end really ugly. And that is one of the things we have been able to see, for example. Afghanistan, where a great many of the defence's own people have also been deeply frustrated that there was no proper strategy for what was going to happen in Afghanistan and how to achieve it and where there was not a good enough knowledge of what was going on in political movements and who was being allied with it. That is why I would like the rapporteur to address this question: if you just jump around like that and ally with whom it can now be by random dictators at will and no longer think about the strategy, can you actually also help to give rise to some of the terrorist movements around which the rapporteur is often criticized? So it could be a little bit of a head under your arm.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219114202	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219114203	We have been in Iraq for almost 16 years now, and I do not think anyone could have foreseen what would have happened over the 16 years, the day when we in Parliament decided to join. Besides, I wasn't part of the process myself; I was the press manager of the party, but I wasn't directly involved, but of course I did a little bit of what was going on and I was behind it. But I think it has been an impossibility to predict. I believe that in the first few weeks it was a matter of mobilizing the military, and then it was a matter of going on the battlefield to defeat the regime that was there. That's what was in mind. I don't know how many months you had to work to do that. I would almost say that it does not matter how many months you make available. If you have sat and analysed for 12 months, you will still end up with the same finding that we cannot foresee this; we have to correct and we have to adjust along the way and then hope the best and fear the worst. Unfortunately, that's the condition when you go to war.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219114311	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219114312	I just want to say that, in relation to Afghanistan, there was completely valid information, including in the Pentagon and elsewhere, which said that this is going to be fucking uphill; it's going to be really hard to get there. After all, it was information which did not come out and which was not included in the political processes but which was chosen to be ignored. As far as Iraq is concerned, it has been clear all the way through that the sectarian violence and repression, as can be seen so clearly in Iraq, has been very important for the emergence of terrorist movements, such as Iraq. IS. That is quite clear, and I think the rapporteur ought to take that into account, namely that we can actually foresee it if we do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219114355	Now I don't think it was in those Pentagon papers. But here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219114358	Well, Mrs Eva Flyvholm, no one has doubted that it would be difficult in Afghanistan. I simply do not believe that. Mrs Eva Flyvholm almost depicts it as if it were such a report that had to be saved aside. I remember it was a scenario where it would really be deadly for our soldiers to come along. So I certainly do not think so. Unfortunately, I cannot ask a counter-question, because Mrs Flyvholm cannot answer it, but how many weeks of slash months do you find the right time to analyse before joining the war with a year of delay? Well, that's not possible. I think you just have to take it as well as you can and work as hard as you can. And then we have to trust that our current government has the right information at all times.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219114447	Then there's Jens Rohde, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219114449	Thank you. And thank you, sir. Søren Espersen for the liberating honesty that Mr. By the way, Søren Espersen always goes to debates with, and above all, the debates we have had on the Iraq war. It is liberating instead of the rapporteur from the Left who stands and makes strawmen from Parliament's platform, because it is absolutely unnecessary to do so. I very much agree with Mr. Søren Espersen, when he says that you can't just put down an exit strategy like that. After all, war also brings with it ravages and many unforeseen events, which then have to be dealt with on an ongoing basis. And you don't really know if things are going well or not well. But it is precisely for this reason that it is so important to ensure that those who have been sent forth are prevented from being held hostage in a political debate at home. I think sir... Søren Espersen remembers how our soldiers have been held hostage in a political debate over the years, because the war in Iraq was decided by a relatively narrow majority. Mr. Søren Espersen not that it might be appropriate for us to give this guarantee to our sendees that they will not be held hostage in such a large domestic political debate because, after all, it is a very broad qualified majority that must be behind a broadcast?
ParlaMint-DK_20191219114612	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219114612-2	But I disagree with Mr. Jens Rohde in what he says about soldiers feeling in a dilemma because there is a discussion about it. The soldiers we have know as well about the Danish people's rule and democracy as we do, and know that these are the conditions. So I've never, contrary to Mr. Simpson... Jens Rohde and Mrs Eva Flyvholm, I think it was, met soldiers who have said to me: we feel so terrible because there is only 51 per cent. behind us; how wonderful it would be to have 60%! Behind us. I have never met that attitude anywhere; on the contrary, our soldiers and officers are fully aware that it is the conditions of democracy that can be a disgrace, but it is always a disgrace to be sent to war. With regard to the broad majority, I have said what I mean. I do not think that, just because you are more, you are getting more right, and I think there has also been evidence of this in the conflicts we have had, where there were a great many, as I said, behind the resolution on Afghanistan and very few in relation to Iraq, and then all the parties of the Folketing including the Enhedslisten in relation to Libya were withdrawn later.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219114721	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219114723	Nor do I claim that decisions are necessarily getting better because many are behind them. But what I mean, on the other hand, is that you have the broad foundation in the Folketing and that there are more to take responsibility. I have now met soldiers who may not have always thought it was as pleasant, but I do know that our soldiers know what is the basic conditions of our people's rule. Nevertheless, Mrs Helle Thorning-Schmidt stood in the Chamber at the time and said: the Danish soldiers are not part of the solution; they are part of the problem. And that is just the debate that I mean with a broad foundation in the Folketing for its decisions could be avoided because they will be
ParlaMint-DK_20191219114816	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219114817	Yeah, that was an inappropriate remark she made. I haven't heard it before, but if that's the case, it's inappropriate. I'll check it out afterwards. So I would say that in all contexts in here, it is best that there are many of us on decisions. For it is true that it gives some kind of confidence that this will not just be changed after the next elections, because there will be a new majority. That is also why we in this Parliament see it as a luxury to be as many as possible about a resolution as opposed to, for example, a motion for a resolution. in Britain, and that's why it's going to excuse the term "ad Pomeranian to over there; that's because you can't in any way find out that it's a luxury to be a lot of people around a political decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219114857	Thank you. Sir. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219114901	I have also had the pleasure of discussing this many times with Mr. Søren Espersen, and it is always open and honest debates that I very much appreciate. What makes me want to speak here is the fact that we should not try to have a strategy at all. I still think that is going quite far. I do not disagree with the fact that if there are 10 to 20 peoples and you have to try to get into a deeply complicated political situation in a country where there are many stakeholders and also outside stakeholders who are interfering, it is extremely difficult to succeed with your mission, but that is precisely why you have to think very well, both in terms of whether you want to go in at all, but also in terms of how you can avoid being held hostage in that situation and avoid our soldiers being held hostage. In fact, I think we succeeded better than usual when we decided to go into the fight against ISIL, because we took all the stabilising efforts with us, the non-military tracks. We helped to bring pressure to bear on the government of Iraq to prevent further sectarian attacks. We were ready with the humanitarian efforts right after, if I may say so, bombed so that the people on earth were making progress immediately, and all sorts of things, as we had learned from past efforts. It was, in fact, a strategy and there was also an idea that we could move forward afterwards. So does the rapporteur really think that we should not try to create a strategy at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20191219115030	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219115032	Yeah, you certainly do. You have to do everything you can. This is extremely important when you go to war, and everyone knows that your intelligence is the way they should be. They did not turn out to be in relation to the Iraq War. It wasn't quite as they had been told. But you have to do everything you can to know about each small group in Iraq or Afghanistan or where you are now operating, because then you will get much better out of it. It is insanely important to know as much as possible. That is also why we constantly have intelligence people out in all the hot spots of the world working together with Western intelligence agencies on it, so that they come forward as well prepared as possible. And then it ends with a month after it is a completely different picture that emerges. That's what's so damned about this discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219115128	I am therefore pleased that the rapporteur is in favour of preparing as well as possible and of putting in place a strategy and exit strategies as well as possible. On the other hand, I agree that the picture can change and usually it does. But then you have a foundation to stand on. In fact, many times now I have heard the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party say that many of these very active commitments are perhaps not so clever in military terms, because basically we cannot make the big difference and that we must at least get out quickly. I am still in favour of seeing that the result is that the Danish People's Party does not support any military action. Is there an example that the Danish People's Party has chosen not to support a military operation in recent times on the basis of all the concerns outlined by the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20191219115215	Thank you. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219115216	I do not think there are examples of this. From the outset, we have been incredibly concerned about engaging in defence policy cooperation and have also taken some things on our shoulders that we might not have liked so much. That's what you'll find out afterwards. Iraq has been mentioned as a very good example of what we felt we had got the right intelligence from our own intelligence, from the United States, etc. and entered into it in good faith. So, yes, we have sometimes made some decisions that we were not enthusiastic about, but we have done so in order to be involved in broad cooperation in defence policy. That is also for the sake of our officers and our soldiers.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219115259	Thank you. And then there are no more questions. Here you go, sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219115332	Have we learned anything from history, and can we learn anything from the war investigation? One of the lessons we have learned is that large, difficult decisions, which can in the extreme mean that Danish soldiers lose their lives, should not be taken by a narrow majority. Going to war must not be done by the minimum possible majority, which was exactly what happened in 2003 in relation to Iraq. In fact, I think there is a difference between the scope of Parliament's decisions. In all the other cases, of course, the majority applies, but war issues stand out. That is probably why the Socialists have also supported in the past that there must be a two-thirds majority in order to send soldiers to war. Today, the position of the Social Democrats is fluctuating in the wind, and the worst is almost that the answers to the questions are also fluttering in the wind. Because what is really a broad majority? Is it one voice as it was in 2003? I also think that the Socialists must think it, perhaps heretical thought, that there may be a day when they are no longer in government. A two-thirds majority rule is, of course, our guarantee into the future, when perhaps a dark and gloomy day awaits a Fogh-like militaristic government without the big thoughts about what a broad political majority means. Indeed, we must avoid getting into a situation again, as we did in 2003, when Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen almost did not care about other positions in the Folketing. Fogh's government insisted in it, as in many other contexts, on being the obedient lapdog of the United States. When the United States told the Danish government to jump, Anders Fogh asked with great zeal: How high? Anders Fogh would go to war with the United States at all costs, and with the narrowest possible mandate we ended up in the unhappy war in Iraq. After all, in the report the historians have deepened the consequences of the dramatic and terrible decision of 2003. A two-thirds majority can, on the one hand, slow down unwise decisions in an area that cannot be compared with others in relation to the consequences for those citizens who are at risk of losing their lives. But it is clear that this does not prevent stupid decisions from being taken in the future too. On the other hand, a two-thirds majority will help to give Danish soldiers greater security in the knowledge that they have been deployed with a solid popular mandate. The SF believes that this is an important lesson from the progress made in 2003. The SF also supports an activist foreign policy, but it does not need to be a militaristic foreign policy and never a foreign policy based on rumors and fake news, as it did in relation to the Iraq war. I would also like to say that we think it is a scandal that the Iraq Commission is not allowed to finish its work. The Commission was the best opportunity to get to the bottom of the decision-making process by the Danish participation in the Iraq War; a decision-making process that was filled with obvious flaws and, in particular, a lack of information for the then members of the Foreign Policy Name, as is clear from the war investigation. On behalf of Mrs Eva Flyvholm of the Enhedslisten, Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist from the Alternative and SF I will read out one proposal for adoption: Proposal for adoption: As a follow-up to the war investigation • Why did Denmark go to war? The Danish Parliament calls on the Government to ensure early, continuous and full involvement of the Danish Parliament in decisions on Danish participation in international military operations, where both the purpose of the Danish contribution, the overall strategy of linking to other non-military tracks and planned exit strategies are described. In the light of participation in international operations, the Folketing considers that the government currently in office should seek broad support for the efforts of the Folketing. Therefore, the government is called upon to introduce a principle of two-thirds majority in the Folketing by sending Danish soldiers. To this end, the Folketing invites the current government, on the basis of the intended purpose, to give a thorough review and evaluation of the efforts of the Folketing once a Danish contribution from an international operation has been recovered. Parliament regrets in this spirit that the government has chosen not to reopen the Iraq Commission. • V 43).
ParlaMint-DK_20191219115843	Thank you. The proposal for adoption is part of the further debate. Then there are some comments and questions. Sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219115852	Thank you for the floor. I have been following Danish politics for many years now, and what I have noticed is that a broad majority protects above all against bad decisions being criticised and also protects against their being examined if things go wrong. - Sir... Karsten Hønge follow that thinking?
ParlaMint-DK_20191219115913	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219115914	Well, actually, I can do that. After all, it is not a matter of saying that by having a two-thirds majority, everything will become absolutely clear. This is obviously one of the risks involved, and it is also no guarantee that a Parliament will make stupid decisions, even if there are two thirds behind it. I just see it as the best possible security with the risks that obviously also lie in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219115939	Then it's mr. Jens Rohde, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219115941	Thank you, and thank you for a very good speech. It could be very tempting to support that proposal for adoption, although it has to be said that it is rather a paradox that the Social Democracy and Enhedslisten choose the narrow majority in something that one would like to discuss that there should be a broad majority behind it. But the content seems to me to be very fine. Sir. Karsten Hønge says that the Folketing and Foreign Policy Name were then filled with wrong information. Yeah, but it was because of the intel that came from the United States. It wasn't the Danish government that I think should hear about that... that filled the Danish Parliament with false information. As rapporteur for the Left, it was also said that the weapons of mass destruction were not the legal basis for entering the war. This was a failure to comply with Resolution 1441. But the decision was not really taken here in Parliament, after all, that we should participate. But not whether or not there should be an invasion of Iraq. And that's why my question will just like that for the sake of history writing to Mr. Karsten Hønge be: Karsten Hønge did not agree that Denmark could not have prevented that war in Iraq? It was not Denmark that decided that we should go to war. It was America.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219120059	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219120101	That is quite right: Denmark chose to be the obedient lapdog in relation to the United States and then go with it. But when Mr. Jens Rohde, like building a separation, will probably hold up as completely legal as Mr. Rohde. Jens Rohde also points out that weapons of mass destruction were not part of the decision-making framework itself. But anyone who followed the debate then knows that it was entirely part of every ordinary Dane's experience of what was the reason for making the decision. Well, it was completely blurry what was legal about what was decided and what everyone was discussing, namely that there were weapons of mass destruction, which turned out to be based on rumors and fake news.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219120139	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219120140	Well, I agree with that part, so I contributed to it myself. I have discussed weapons of mass destruction myself, but it was not in bad faith, it was actually in good faith. Nevertheless, it was not legally what was sought. But it's fine. I'm very pleased with the answer. It was only for the sake of history that all nuances are included. And thank you again for a good speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219120216	Thank you. Then it's mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219120218	It's kind of on the same street as that, sir. Jens Rohde has said, and thank you for that, sir. Jens Rohde. Because when you come up with such a rough concept and say that the government made fake news to the Folketing, it is worth noting what it was voted on. That was 13 reasons • 13 reasons • in B 118. That is what was voted on. Then it may well be that there are all sorts of other debates and we can quickly debate what was said there. However, in relation to what was voted on, can the rapporteur for the SF explain what is fake news in relation to the 13 reasons just one of them?
ParlaMint-DK_20191219120249	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219120250	Yes, because now I'm standing here with my papers, and I didn't actually say anything about that decision. I said that foreign policy doesn't have to be militaristic and never based on rumors and fake news. That's exactly what I said. On the other hand, I just think, frankly, that it is a cowardly attitude to have this discussion. I find it shameful to see our former Prime Minister Fogh Rasmussen hiding behind something formal in relation to what was decided. Everyone who followed the debate at the time knew very well what the underlying basis was for the debate it was that it was believed that there were weapons of mass destruction in Iraq. And trying to run away from it is cowardly.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219120325	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219120326	I mean, I don't think it's cowardly to start discussing what is the background to what the Folketing is voting on. But we can also take that discussion. Then we can look at what the war investigation directly said, and now I quote: 'Furthermore, the question has been raised whether the Danish Government spoke untruely about the existence of weapons of mass destruction in Iraq. The answer to that question is dismissive. I repeat: the answer to that question is dismissive. The government was based on FE's threat assessments, in which it is assumed that Iraq had weapons of mass destruction. So all that talk where you try to call it cowardly and fake news and everything else excuse me, there's no evidence for that in the war investigation.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219120404	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219120405	Again: It is narrowly entirely correct in relation to the legal what the Danish Parliament adopted which did not include it. However, every citizen, every politician who took part in the 2003 discussion, was fully aware of the importance of the experience, the belief, of the rumours on a daily basis in the TV Newspaper that there were weapons of mass destruction in Iraq. It was the political underlay music so that it could then be passed through. But it is quite true that legally you were lucky enough to stay on the right side. But it is cowardly not to stand by what the political background itself was. It was the fear of weapons of mass destruction.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219120440	Thank you. Sir. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219120442	I think the rapporteur is putting a halo on himself. Well, this is a matter of trusting the government, and in the Danish People's Party at the time we had confidence that what Anders Fogh Rasmussen told us was right. We voted for this, just as a few years earlier in security policy we had confidence in Poul Nyrup Rasmussen from the Social Democratic Party in relation to the fact that it was right to go to war in Afghanistan. If you don't trust the government, you have to overthrow the government. However, when it comes to these issues, we need to have confidence in the government, which builds our intelligence services and which is based on cooperation between the Western intelligence services. To stand here so many years later and say that it was fake news and you should have known that is not fair to those who made the decision then.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219120534	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219120535	I think, sir. Søren Espersen goes a little too far compared to what I said. I didn't actually say at any time that Mr. Søren Espersen or others against their own knowledge of what was should claim something else and therefore so consciously go out with fake news. I don't attribute that to anyone. That fake news and those rumors were clearly from the United States. After all, we all remember Colin Powell and others who completely explained that there were these weapons of mass destruction. So it is not the Danish Government that is proceeding in this way here in the Danish Parliament and saying: Now you will hear there are weapons of mass destruction, and that is why we must go to war. Everyone knows, however, that this was the very foundation of the public debate and of the debate also in the Folketing and everywhere else: the fear of weapons of mass destruction in Iraq.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219120614	Here you go, sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219120615	But that's the very explanation why we went with that is the explanation itself. After all, we or other parties cannot go around playing intelligence people themselves and be in the field there in Iraq saying: what is being said by the Danish intelligence service and by the United States intelligence service, which should, moreover, be the one who has the most understanding of things, is not true at all. It is therefore unreasonable to impose such a burden on each Member of Parliament and to say that what he or she adopted at the time was just fake news and that one should have known that. It's trust in the government, and if you don't, you stay away from that war. If you trust, you participate, as we did, both at the invitation of Anders Fogh Rasmussen, but also from Poul Nyrup Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219120702	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219120703	Yes, but today we are called together to discuss a situation that has happened in the past. We're called together to discuss the war investigation, and that's why we're discussing history. Well, we have to take seriously the situation that we are called together to discuss, and it is an evaluation of what happened, it is a war investigation. And that is why, of course, post-rationalizations come in on what we could have done differently. And one of the things we are just pointing out in this connection is that it could help to give a different focus to the current government to know at any time that a broad political majority must be behind it. Not just that formal, but it also provides a different orientation on how to carry things through. I thought it was awful to see in this context that such a dramatic decision was taken on such a narrow basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219120746	Then it's mr. Naser Khader, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219120749	Thank you. As several rapporteurs have said, our main reason for joining the war was that Saddam Hussein did not comply with UN resolutions. But in relation to weapons of mass destruction: is it also fake news that Saddam Hussein used weapons of mass destruction against the Kurds in Halabja some years earlier?
ParlaMint-DK_20191219120813	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219120814	No, it is quite obvious that Saddam Hussein, among all the many crimes that he committed, also used gas against his own people. Just as it is obvious to everyone that the Swedish weapons controller, whom I have just forgotten the name, thought that he needed a little more time, and it could actually have been that he could have had it unveiled. But it was very important to ensure that decisions were taken before those were taken, was it three months that he asked for extra? where we might have been able to clarify whether there was any team in the rumors.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219120843	Sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219120844	I think the SF's response and speech are very much based on hindsight. Actually, I think so. The fact that people were talking about weapons of mass destruction was not imagined. It was based on Saddam Hussein using those weapons against the Kurds. And at that time, it was not clear that he had got rid of weapons of mass destruction. He set foot for the UN inspectors, and that was among other things. Therefore, there was so much uncertainty about those weapons of mass destruction. So I think there's a lot of hindsight in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219120921	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219120921-2	Well, I can only confirm that. After all, we are here to discuss a war investigation and hindsight. So that's true. But that is what we are called together to do: to decide what we can then learn from history. What can we learn from the war investigation? And it's true that it's hindsight. But what is on today's agenda is the debate on the war investigation. And one of the lessons I think we can learn is that we should not be able to take such dramatic action in the future on the basis of something that does not hold up and on the basis of a very, very narrow majority. One might have hoped that just the fact that the government currently in office should have an orientation towards obtaining a broad majority for that and for example. This situation could also have given the UN observers a little longer time before it might have been clarified whether or not the weapons were present.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219121006	Thank you. There are no more comments, so we need the next rapporteur, and that is Mrs Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219121016	Thank you very much. If you decide to go to war, it is always an insanely serious decision, both for the people who are sent out we have soldiers who are both at risk of being killed or coming home with both physical and mental injuries, but to such an extent also for the countries where you go to war. If you look at Iraq, you count the number of civilians killed for hundreds of thousands. About 80%. of those who lost their lives during the Iraq war and in the years after, have been civilian men, women and children who have certainly not asked for this war to take place but who are still paying the price for it with their lives. In addition, countries are being destroyed and destroyed and take a very long time to be rebuilt. When you look at the situation in Afghanistan right now, you actually see that day by day, week by week, more civilians are killed on a daily basis than at the height of the war. So the situation is still insanely unstable, and I think we are talking too little about that, and we are not dealing with what the consequences of the wars in which Denmark has been involved are actually and still are today. In any case, it is insanely important to say that, when you take the decision to go to war, you have really turned and turned all the arguments for and against having a proper basis to assess the possible consequences, and that must be a discussion that must be in order, you might say. I think it is very important to point this out, for example. in relation to the Iraq war was not, and I am really glad that we are now standing, one might say, in a situation here in the Folketing where there is agreement that there are actually some things that need to be tightened up. The name must be properly oriented; one must think about how to get an exit strategy; one must think about whether there could be other options than military intervention; and one must think about what conditions are on the ground at all and have a proper analysis of it. I think that is a very great improvement, and it is also very good that we point out that we all agree that we should try to achieve as broad a majority as possible. So I think we've come a bit along the way here, and it's really important. However, when we on the Enhedslisten, together with the SF and the Alternative, have put forward our own proposal for adoption, it is primarily about the fact that we would very much like to say that there should not just be a broad majority, but that there should actually be a two-thirds majority when the Folketing decides to send soldiers to war. It has been referred to as a random number or something, but it is not. It is quite common practice that when you have some particularly important decisions, you can like asking that there be a two-thirds majority. There are probably many of you who, if you are going to make changes to your statute in your party or something, have experienced that you actually need a two-thirds majority. It is a fairly common practice and that is one way of saying that here we have something so important that we want to be sure that there is proper political support for it. That is what we would like to see introduced, and I think it could be very important if we could agree on it, but unfortunately we cannot. I am sorry that the Social Democrats no longer believe what they have done before, but this is at least an indication that we would like to have a continued discussion and to continue to argue about why, by a two-thirds majority, this is actually a very good idea when it comes to war. Then there is also the question of the closure of the Iraq and Afghanistan Commission. After all, it is still our wish that we should have a commission set up to investigate at least those parts that have not been properly clarified yet, and that is what happened to the prisoners who were extradited to torture, and it is a question of assessing whether the Iraq war was legal at all and of putting legal responsibility there. I think it is absolutely absurd that you can sit here and have these discussions back and forth about whether something bad was going on or not, and you see rapporteurs for the Left and the Danish People's Party, who are trying to claim that it was not. It is parties here in the Folketing that have themselves closed down the commission of inquiry which was supposed to clarify what the legal responsibility was in relation to these wars, and if it had been allowed to continue, none of us would have had to sit and discuss it back and forth, because then it would have been completely clarified. That's the work I still think we owe it to ourselves to finish. Finally, it is our wish that we also have as much openness as possible in the future in discussing the foundations on which we go to war, and the experience of Denmark, when Denmark has then been at war, and that hopefully we can avoid more wars such as in Iraq, Afghanistan and Libya, which have too bloody consequences, and instead become more skilled at focusing on how we can prevent war and conflict, and how we can negotiate some political solutions to the conflicts that are around us. So thank you for the discussion today.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219121534	There are some brief comments. Sir. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219121538	Now it is a little unusual for me to get a little sharp, and that is not the idea, but when we talk about two thirds, I would like to hear the rapporteur explain why we should actually count the votes of Enhedslisten in this. It is a party which is outside the defence settlement and which has never made any effort to join; one is against all military operations except that in Libya, where one ran away again the next day; it is a pacifist agenda party and you have never taken any responsibility. Why should your voices suddenly be valid and interesting and valuable in this discussion? Why don't you explain it to me?
ParlaMint-DK_20191219121618	First of all, it must be said that the majority of two thirds is not all parties of the Folketing for information either. And it is perfectly correct to assume that there will probably be a great deal of the operations where Enhedslisten will be among the one third that do not support it, because we believe that there are often better ways than the military to solve problems on the island of Enhedslisten that is quite correct. However, we are not pacifists; there may well be cases where you have to use the military. But as a starting point we must say that we are pointing to political solutions. But to ensure that there is a two-thirds majority, Mr. Søren Espersen, of course, is about not making rushed and jabbed decisions about something as important as war. And if you look at Iraq, for example, there was also very much uncertainty about the basis there was, because the war was therefore uncertain about what was going to happen at all, which meant that even large parties such as the Social Democratic Party, which are usually involved, could not be included in it. It is actually to ensure that things do not get squeezed through on an irresponsible and unfinished basis. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219121721	This has happened a few times here, where I have not commented on it, but direct charges have started to be used, and this should not be done in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So it's just that you just put it behind your ear. Sir. Søren Espersen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219121732	Well, I can imagine this absolutely horrifying picture where we sit in such a study circle with Enhedslisten to find out if we should send soldiers to war. That is, of course, what I mean by the fact that the party, through its action in defence and security policy, has put itself outside everything. Why on earth should one include Enhedslisten in anything? We know in advance where it ends, no matter what is being discussed. If it ends up with a really good idea to send Danish soldiers to war and Enhedslisten enthusiastically supports it, then the study group might turn into something, but otherwise it's just a total waste of time. We will find out in the circle that has a positive attitude to Danish defence.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219121812	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219121813	This isn't a field of study, sir. Søren Espersen, it is the Folketing, and it is also about whether a democratic majority can be achieved. It is absolutely true that we do not want to be part of the defence settlement, but we are part of the Folketing, and we also have a responsibility to help ensure that in a democracy there are proper political debates when taking such an important decision as going to war. If this is a problem for the Danish People's Party, one might consider whether it was somewhere else to be than in the Folketing. However, I think it is absolutely fundamental that we have an agreement that there is a proper basis for taking such an important decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219121850	Then it's mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219121852	Thank you. I understand Enhedslisten's ideological stand against war. I don't agree with it. But the rest of us are just in a situation where we believe that the United Nations concept of 'Responsibility to Protect' means a lot to go in and save civilian populations from massacres. And, as the rapporteur is probably aware, it came about after the Rwandan scandal, where the international community just left behind. I know that the rapporteur is very concerned about the Kurdish problem. We have a civilian population in danger of being massacred by all sorts of different people, including the Islamic State. That is why I think it is clear to me, at least, how and how it can also have consequences if we do not move in. For let us now say that we had not moved in with the Islamic State; what would that be like in relation to the Kurds? I know what the Kurds have said, they have at least made it clear to me and also to the Enhedslisten, I assume that they would then have been massacred; then they would not have been on earth to this day. So does the rapporteur not agree that the concept of 'Responsibility to Protect' adopted by the United Nations, namely that there should be a world policeman, maybe not so bad even?
ParlaMint-DK_20191219121956	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219121957	After all, there are several UN peacekeeping missions that we on the side of the Enhedslist can support, including from what you describe. That is what I mean by saying that we are not pacifists in such a way that we can never support a military operation. We just need a very clear indication that political solutions are also being tried and that this is something that is happening with UN backing and that this is something that is happening precisely in order to defend, for example. the civilian population. And the Kurdish question is of great concern to me, as the rapporteur knows. So, yes, there may be grounds for a military operation. But you have to say that if you look at the Iraq war and if you look at the Afghanistan war and also at how the situation in Libya developed, then these are not situations where you can say that it has been in the interests of the civilian population. On the contrary, hundreds of thousands of people have lost their lives, are still living away in deep poverty, have been tortured and have suffered the worst things simply, and these are things that are still happening. We have a responsibility for this, and I believe that, as a democracy, we also have to look at this in greater depth, and that is why, for example, we have to look at it. I would like the Iraq and Afghanistan Commission to be used to investigate what was actually going on when they went to war in Iraq.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219122106	I choose to believe that when you say "you" this time, you might as well have said "man" and that it was not directly addressed to Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen. Yeah. Good. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219122115	Thank you. As far as Afghanistan is concerned, I have to admit that Article 5 of the NATO Pact was activated. However, if you go in and look at the civilian population in Afghanistan, I agree that there have been plenty of setbacks. I mean, I myself had the opportunity to be in Afghanistan visiting girls' schools, which had been totally unheard of under the Taliban. And if you just go in and look at the average life expectancy of the ordinary Afghan, it was in the early 40s under the Taliban while it is now over 60 years old. I think that in itself is a clear sign that you are living just a little bit better than you did under the Taliban. So we can have a discussion about these different wars, but we are also clearly showing that we are doing so because we actually want to make a difference, and if we had not done so, the civilian population in Afghanistan would still be living under one of the worst regimes the world has ever seen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219122207	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219122209	I just have to say that the fact is that the Taliban are controlling even very large parts of Afghanistan now. So it is not the case that there is now just freedom and democracy and happy days; that is certainly not the case. And I think we owe it to ourselves, and also to the Afghans, to relate to the fact that, for example, if we had gone into the process much earlier and had negotiated a peace with the Taliban, such as Norway. I think we could have saved a lot of people's lives. That is the kind of reflection we need to make, and that is why I also think it is important that we have these commissions to actually get smarter and could do things differently some other time.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219122249	Thank you. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219122252	I would say that for a party which still has members who previously belonged to the DKP and only resigned from the Communist Party after the fall of the wall, it must be an expression of a total lack of sense of situation that we are now trying to give guidelines to those parties which have consistently been guarantors of the free nation over the last many, many years, to which the members of Mrs Flyvholm's party have certainly contributed little. I find it disgraceful to witness such a lack of sense of situation that a party that has never taken part in securing the Danish defence has never lifted a finger to secure money for NATO membership, and never, without following the tail between its legs, sent out Danish troops, is now standing here giving homework to the other parties which have actually undertaken the task of ensuring that the Danish people have been able to live in a free nation since the Second World War. I must say that is really disgraceful to witness.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219122358	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219122359	Well, it's always nice to be lectured. As the rapporteur can imagine, I am not exactly one of the former members of the DKP, so I may not have to take all the responsibility for that. I would say that democracy is even very, very heavily in our minds in the Enhedslisten, and so is it, in relation to decisions to send soldiers to war and what else is going to happen while those soldiers are deployed in war. I find it difficult to see what is actually more important to take a democratic decision on here in the Danish Parliament, and so I have to say that, on the other hand, I find it disgraceful that we have parties that have sent soldiers to war, soldiers who have also lost their lives, and who have been involved in a war that has cost so many hundreds of thousands of civilian lives and then will not even stand by, that one could make a proper examination of whether things were actually going on properly when one made that decision. I think that is a democratic deficiency which is really, really violent, and that is why we want it to be different. However, I would like to say that we agree that we must have a better process here in the future. This is one of the things we are discussing here today, and I am glad that the Danish People's Party can also participate.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219122512	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219122514	Actually, Mrs. Eva Flyvholm has a responsibility. Her party has a responsibility to still have members who took the errand of Denmark's enemies until the wall fell, and I think Mrs Eva Flyvholm should take that responsibility on her. It has little to do with democracy, of course, to say that there must be a two-thirds majority or a three-quarters majority. Democracy means that the majority decides, so the proposal that Enhedslisten has taken on in this matter is the opposite of democracy. That is to say, if there is a majority in the Folketing in order to implement the policy that the electorate has wanted, then they must not, unless it is a qualified majority. It is, of course, a complete reversal of the whole concept of democracy, but I think it might be very good to say something about how Enhedslisten actually feels about this democracy, for it has fought for it, at least never has Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219122602	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219122603	We have a very different assessment of that, I must say. However, the fact that we, as a Parliament, could decide that we would like here to make some extra good rules on how much support there should be before sending out soldiers, I see so much as very, very democratic and possibly, as it is. It is, of course, the only political will that is not there to introduce such a rule, and the rapporteur himself must be in favour of that, but it is basically very democratic; there is certainly no problem with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219122632	Thank you. Then there is no more on the list, so we move on to a new rapporteur. It's sir. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219122646	Thank you. One of the most difficult decisions one can make in this Chamber is actually to send young Danes to war, and that is why it has to be done wisely. We have to do this very, very carefully. I do not think that the size of the majority is important, but that it is crucial what decisions we make, when we make decisions, whether they are wholehearted and how we win peace when we make such decisions. I have a friend who has a Middle Eastern background teaching at Georgetown University. He said at one point: the West is weird. When we beg and ask them to come and prevent the genocide in Rwanda, Darfur, Syria, they will not come. When we beg them to stay away, they come. When they arrive, they are late; they come half-heartedly, and they are incredibly busy getting back out as soon as possible before the work is done. This is one of the biggest challenges we have here when we make these decisions. Take e.g. Libya. I think it was the right decision. Gaddafi posed a threat to the civilian population, to the neighbours, to stability and peace in the region. We made the right decision, but we made half a decision. We removed Gaddafi, but created a power vacuum, and we left power in Libya to gangs, to militias that we didn't get disarmed. We chose to stay in the air and left the power vacuum on the ground to the bandits, and it created chaos. It's just an example of going in and doing something half-hearted. The same was true of Afghanistan. Powell believed at the time that many, many more forces would be needed to start fighting the Taliban and al-Qaeda. This is another example of not doing things wholeheartedly. Think of Syria. If you had responded in time and had already sent those rockets, which the President of the United States later sent against a military base near the presidential palace, then Assad would have come to the negotiating table, and then we would not have had the disaster that we had later: many refugees, Islamic state, etc. Are we going to interfere in the West and Denmark? It's always a hassle to get involved, but it's even more trouble not to interfere. Syria is, in fact, a good example. Danish foreign policy is basically about defending Danish political and economic interests. So it is in our interest sometimes not always to go into meddling, not for altruistic reasons. It is not only to be good to others, but it is also in our own self-interest. Why are we in Mali today? We are doing this to prevent the establishment of Islamic State and other terrorist groups in some of the failing states in Africa. If they teach another caliphate, we shall again have to deal with it as we did with the caliphate in Iraq and Syria. The same is true of our commitment to Syria and Iraq against the Islamic State. It was important for us to fight the terrorists down there rather than get terror on our streets. So, of course, we have to interfere, but interfering militarily must only be done as a final solution. I also think it is important that we also meddle with what we are also very good at in Denmark, what some call soft power. I know that the Danish idea of merging municipalities, the cooperative idea, etc. is being propagated in the West Bank. We're really, really good at that, too. We have to do the same. The main reason why we need to interfere around the world is also to prevent and prevent people from emigrated, fleeing and emigrated. So it is also in our self-interest. Then I think it is also important, when we intervene militarily, that we discuss things afterwards. I think it is good that there has been a war investigation and that there have been some conclusions that give food for thought, because we need to be better at it next time. 'Cause there's gonna be a next time. There is. So you can't rule that out. The world is changing all the time, and the world is not and has never been peaceful. However, the conclusion from the statement that two-thirds of the majority should be sought in the future seems to me to be enormously square. I believe that the government, whatever it may be, must strive to obtain a majority, a broad majority, but to say that it must be a two-thirds majority, we are therefore not in favour of it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219123211	Thank you. There are no comments. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219123225	Thank you. War is never easy and should never be easy to decide about. It is not easy because, firstly, when we make such a decision here in the Folketing, we send Danish soldiers out where it can be dangerous and with life as an effort. Secondly, it is not easy because we are involved in conflicts where civilian populations around the world are also in the front line and are therefore also really exposed. So it must never be easy, nor have I ever experienced, in the years I have been in here, when we have discussed efforts, that someone has taken those decisions lightly. The analysis we are discussing today seems to me to indicate a serious problem and a weakness; and this is where informal knowledge is shared in relation to the decisions we are making on the major efforts that we have been involved in and which this analysis deals with. And that is why, in fact, I think we need to look at how we can, yes, become more formalistic in our approach to it, i.e. set up clear rules and frameworks that we always follow. For us, it is important that non-military tools and interventions are always considered with the military, so that we look at how we can go in and support and resolve the conflicts in other ways; it is important that we always lean on the international mandates; and that we also always remember that it is one thing to devote the funds it costs; we often hear that when we discuss an effort, that is, what the economy behind it is, that there should always be funds for the humanitarian effort that are so crucial. And then there's the exit strategy, which I think it might be, and it's hard to think about always, that is, in terms of how we move forward, so that we don't suddenly stand where it all goes in itself, so that we can't just step out. Then, in fact, in the alternative, we have also proposed that, after there has been an effort, an independent commission be set up that looks at the mandate and that looks at the conditions for it in relation to expectations, that is, how it has gone and it is done independently afterwards. What we are discussing today in particular is what the broadest possible majority behind an effort is and how it is done. And there should be no doubt that we think there should be a figure. Two thirds of the majority have not been taken out of the blue; that is something we work with in many places. And it is also a little funny when we talk about the European Union and how we make decisions there. There it is very rare that a majority in this Parliament will participate in majority voting instead of qualified majority voting. So what is it that the qualified majority can do? Well, it might just make sense that we're sure there's this broad support. And there is, as the Social Democrat rapporteur said, almost always. It is not, of course, because it is most often that there are not two thirds behind it. But that's why that rule is just important in our optics, because compared to the times when there hasn't been, well there we can see that there are also challenges afterwards. And so, of course, we should always go for it. These must be the words from me in this round.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219123604	Thank you. There are no comments. Then it's mr. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219123615	Thank you for the floor. Danish security policy should prioritize both diplomatically, with military presence and through international intelligence cooperation, an effort that guarantees Danish national independence also in the long term. Denmark needs to enter into political and military alliances with the friendly countries in order to protect this status as an independent country in which the Danes can live freely and control their lives. Denmark's security policy must therefore primarily aim to ensure that the Danes can live in security in their own country without the risk of external or internal attacks, and that Danish companies and their employees can operate freely in a globalised world. Since 2002, Denmark has contributed militarily to the wars in Afghanistan, Iraq, Syria, Mali and Libya, and perhaps, apart from the contribution in Syria, these contributions have not clearly increased the security of the Danes or ensured the independence of the Danes. Our contribution to the wars in the areas mentioned may not have lowered the threats to Danes, Denmark and Danish interests at all. In New Citizens we therefore strongly believe that Denmark should end its engagements in wars in the Middle East, Asia and North Africa, wars which in many cases are essentially internal Muslim wars, but with the reservation that our commitment in NATO must be respected, and for this reason it may be necessary for Denmark to send contributions to NATO actions. In this light, an early, large and more comprehensive involvement of the entire Folketing is necessary when the current government is even considering contributing Danish participation in international military operations at any time. In New Citizens we also share the view that the current government must be obliged to give the Folketing, at the end of international military operations, a thorough review and evaluation of the efforts. The Danish population is also entitled to a review and an evaluation, of course with extensive consideration of personal information and sensitive information. That is why we support the fact that a confidential evaluation can take place in the Foreign Policy Name, but that the main conclusions must be made public. We therefore support the proposal for adoption that has been put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219123848	Thank you. There are no comments. Sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219123900	Thank you for the floor. We are not Danes for nothing, so we have had a very thorough debate on the process. We like that, but the question is, of course, whether such a process debate solves the whole problem, and several questions have already been raised. If you are a political historian, you might say that an epoch is a period in which the great powers maintain their security policy. The period from 1917 to 1991 was a global era in which the great beast of the great powers' revelation was the Soviet Union. Then it has been almost 30 years since the Soviet Union ceased to exist, which can be divided into two clear sections. There is a paragraph from 1991 to 2001, which is a paragraph that I would call post-Soviet confusion, and then there is the period from 2001 until today, which I would call the age of terror, because the security policy of the great powers is designed to combat terrorism. I do not think that you can read our foreign and security policy without taking these sections of history into account, because if you look at the war investigation, you can say that during the post-Soviet confusion Danish decision-makers believed, and rightly so, that it made sense to clean up the last corners of World War II. That's what we did in the Balkans. It may well be that some people have forgotten, but the Potsdam agreement did not expire until 1990 and then there was cleaned up around the Balkans after that agreement had lapsed. The age of terrorism begins on 11 September 2001, and what has influenced the efforts of Denmark and the West in the age of terror has been primarily a lack of knowledge about the whole starting point of the age of terror. The starting point for the Soviet Union understood most of them. It was Marx and Lenin and all these theorists, and then it was a path addiction to Tsarist Russia, and the two things combined made it possible to understand the Soviet Union. The starting point for the age of terror is, of course, Islamism, and, secondly, it is the history and dynamics that dominate the Middle East. If you don't understand that, then you don't understand anything about the age of terror and make bad decisions. Here I just have to say 'and I also agree with all these procedural recommendations and so on. These two things have nothing to do with each other. And lack of knowledge, I think, about the region, whether the age of terror could not have protected against mistakes that have been made. Sir. Martin Lidegaard said with a typical sub-statement that he was in doubt about how to judge Afghanistan. Afghanistan is a disaster. There is no doubt about that. But again: What subplaced may be a little Danish; I don't know. It has the whole idea of spreading Western democracy and, above all, spreading it by force is an illusion in the Middle East, and we should not pursue policies that do so. This whole idea of building civil society, etc. etc. I mean, it's just a delusion. Now the Afghanistan engagement ends with the Taliban making an agreement that will look very much like the end of the Vietnam War. So we're just gonna get a Vietnam end after 18 years in Afghanistan. It's a disaster. If you have read Per Stig Møller's memoirs about all his meetings with Hamid Karzai, you will also be fully aware of how hopeless the whole project of democracy in Afghanistan was. Of course, you have to talk nicely about people who are not here, but Hamid Karzai was not a great democrat and he was a bit of an opportunist. Then I've said it very, very nicely. So we are in the age of terror, and that is the one that has a huge influence on our foreign policy. More knowledge about the causes of terrorism is, in fact, what solves these errors, and then, of course, we also need a good process. That is why we are also pleased with the proposal for adoption which has already been read out, and we are happy to endorse it. I thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219124408	Thank you. There are no comments. Sir. Sjúrður Skaale, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219124426	Thank you. Now there have been many who have been very far around. I was not a politician during the Iraq War, but I remember following the debate up to the Iraq War on what was right to do, as everyone else did. I remember one argument that it was the right thing to do. That was when, at a public meeting, Tony Blair was asked about the protests against the war that were in the streets of London at that time: what do you say there are half a million people marching on Trafalgar Square? He said: I see it, but when I look at the people who stand in the middle of London today, half a million people, I see that it is as many Kurds as Saddam Hussein has killed; imagine all those people being killed, so cruel is the regime that is in Iraq. He turned the protests to the advantage of his own argument, and it was very convincing that it was. And then I thought it had to be the right thing to do to remove a tyrant like that. Surely it must be the right thing to do for the stability of the region and the whole world. Maybe it was wrong. At least the information was wrong. Maybe it was wrong to go into Iraq. It certainly ended in disaster, but if you hadn't gone in, it would probably have ended in disaster. It was a disaster back then. Obama did not enter Syria, and although Assad crossed the red line over and over again, he did nothing. That was wrong, too. That's the way it is with war. Well, marry, and you regret it. Don't marry and you'll regret it. Do not marry or marry, and you regret both. That's the way it is with war. It can hardly be done in the right way, and war is of course much more important than a single marriage, so it is very important that you have a process, an involvement that is as good as possible. So I support the agenda which has been presented and which has broad support from the Folketing as well. I shall, of course, concentrate on my little chair of the debate, as always. The Faroe Islands do not pay to the Danish army. We are a kind of free riders when it comes to defence, which is why we have no right to be involved in making decisions, but I would ask you to inform us in the processes that will be in the future that there has been talk of a secure channel of communication in the Kingdom community and that you have an involvement in the form of information about what is happening. When a state is warring, the whole state is warring, so the Faroe Islands also become warring. That is why it is right that we should be informed of what is happening. I think the best thing would be for the resolution to say, as in the Iraq war, that the Social Democratic Party was opposed to the Faroe Islands supporting or not supporting this, of course without any right of veto and so on. So I would just recommend that this be respected with involvement, including when it comes to war elsewhere in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219124741	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219124744	Speaking of involvement, can we not start by introducing military service into the Faroe Islands?
ParlaMint-DK_20191219124751	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219124752	Thank you. The introduction of military service in the Faroe Islands would result in the Faroe Islands also being directly withdrawn and able to take decisions. It is such a much bigger discussion than the one we have now. Now it is the case that the Faroe Islands will not be involved when decisions are taken, and this can be justified by the fact that you do not pay and that you do not ask with soldiers. A lot of soldiers from the Faroe Islands are running for wars that Denmark is leading, but then it is on a voluntary basis. If it were a requirement, it would trigger another requirement of genuine involvement.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219124831	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219124834	Well, I just think the other thing is a good start... a symbolic good start... to get involved something more that you'd like. Furthermore, the Faroe Islands are also involved in this debate by virtue of the two Faroese members we have, who also count in the majority or in the minority. If you're gonna start somewhere, it's there. The great involvement is, of course, in relation to the North Atlantic and the Arctic area, and I think that is the most important thing, and the Faroe Islands are part of that. When the Constitution so clearly says that this is about all armored men and that the Constitution applies to all parts of the realm, it's a little strange. I do not want to say that the Faroe Islands sneak around because it is probably something that has been decided here, but I think it is very out of date.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219124922	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219124923	Thank you. As far as the North Atlantic is concerned, when it comes to a matter where the Faroe Islands are directly involved, there is in fact a statement from 2005, which says that the Faroe Islands should be so when it comes to the North Atlantic, but of course not when it comes to the Middle East. The duty to protect is another discussion which will lead to another discussion, which is much greater, and we can take it at another time; I am not afraid to take it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219124956	I would like to make a comment on this. Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219125000	Thank you. Sir. Sjúrður Skaale has a very good point in that North Atlantic MPs must of course be involved as much as possible. Now Mr. Mr Sjúrður Skaale is well aware that there are three North Atlantic members who have joined the red electoral bloc, but there is one, Mr Sjúrður Skaale. Edmund Joensen, who joined the Blue Election Group, including the Left. And that's where we on the Left agreed with Mr. Edmund Joensen that he accedes to the Foreign Policy Name as a full member. However, I do not understand why the three Red North Atlantic Members have not got a better agreement with the Red Election Group, so that they can sit as full members of the Board, where it applies to all three, that you are only sitting as a substitute.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219125041	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219125042	Thank you for the question. I wanted to be a deputy myself. I have such an excellent agreement with the Social Democratic Party that when there is a matter that concerns me, I am joined every single time. I've never had a "no" yet, and that's why we've met many times in the Name so it works fine. When you're one member of a group, i.e. in a group of birds flying in packs when they're many enough, and this group is on a group, it's hard to be anywhere. That is why I do not want permanent seats in the committees, and that is why I have this fine agreement with the Social Democratic Party that I am being joined where it is needed. What I was talking about was not the involvement of members of parliament, but of Faroese authorities, because the democratic structures in the Faroe Islands are such that it is the national government that is the representatives of the people. I was elected by 20%. by the people. I do not represent a majority. I was thinking about the Faroese authorities in the Faroe Islands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219125138	Thank you. And then there are no more comments, and that is why it is the Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219125148	Thank you, Mr President. And thank you very much for what I think has been a very good debate. Thank you to all the rapporteurs. First of all, I welcome the great interest in following up the recommendations in the investigation that lie ahead. And it can also be said that today's debate in the Danish Parliament has confirmed that the Danish Parliament's decision to send Danish women and men to international initiatives is something very special. That is why I would like to start by agreeing completely with Mrs Annette Lind. So it is probably one of the heaviest and most difficult decisions to make when you sit here in Tinget and have to say yes to sending Danish men and women out, where they risk paying the ultimate price, namely their own life, with all that it means for the family. So I agree that it is very important that we have a proper, good and thorough debate. Sir. Martin Lidegaard also mentions what may be the basis for taking decisions, namely Article 51 of the UN Charter, which may be sanctioned by the UN Security Council. There may also be cases where we need to protect people from abuse and genocide. In other words, the obligation to protect or to protect is also one of the things I think is really important when you look at the investigation and what has emerged, for example. What are the elements here in relation to Kosovo? And I think it is very important that we look out into the world and see that there are many people who are victims of violence and genocide. It is clear that military intervention is the last remedy in the toolbox. All other means must be tried first, but it is not a means that can be ruled out in some very special cases in relation to protecting people. I think it is very important to point this out, and I think we have a collective responsibility, among other things. through the UN, to ensure that these principles of responsibility for protecting people from acts of violence and genocide are something that we must keep in mind. With regard to the Iraq war and the processes leading up to it, I agree that it is important to learn from the mistake that I think it was made today. And there, too, I think that the historical analysis illustrates very well what can be done better than having an enlightened basis for decision-making and can do much better in the future. When it comes to having a more comprehensive strategy on the Danish side when you say yes to sending contributions out into the world, I fully agree with Mr. Martin Lidegaard, both in relation to what the purpose, content and published should be. This also applies to our own exit strategy, etc. What is also to be added is that we rarely participate in operations on the Danish side alone. This is something we do with other countries. So the work we are doing here in Denmark, which is so extremely important, where we are getting better at experience gathering ourselves, and where we can assess our strategies on an enlightened basis and what risks we are putting our men and women into, how we contribute, is something that we must also improve internationally in the coalitions we are involved in. Because when we take a decision in the Folketing, when you look at the motion for a resolution, there is typically also a date for when an engagement ends. But that does not mean that the commitment to the coalition that exists, for example. in Afghanistan, Iraq or anywhere else has ended. It may be that others are continuing, and it is important that we have an overall opportunity to push for better strategies when we are part of coalitions as such. I think that is very important. It is a huge task that we have through NATO, through the United Nations, through the European Union and elsewhere. In relation to this issue of two-thirds majority, I have to say that I do not think we are as far apart from each other as may sometimes appear in the debate. So, everyone here and I have been very pleased to agree that getting proper and thorough information so that on an enlightened basis we can make decisions on such difficult things as sending our soldiers to war is absolutely crucial. So the discussion of how we do this, and what we can learn from the content of the war investigation, is so important that we have to take ownership together and ensure that when we do these things forward, we do it on a completely enlightened basis. I think that's very important. Then the government has said very clearly: well, we want to pursue an active Danish foreign and security policy. For example, we have also shown this in the contributions we have made to the MINUSMA in Mali, which has been dealt with, and also in the Operation Barkhane-- the French-led anti-terrorist operation in the Sahel. And we also want when we deal with these things, we do so on such an enlightened basis and so on. as possible. After all, I have welcomed the great support and I believe and hope that there will be parties in here who are ready to take responsibility for Denmark's security. But we're not going to get stuck to any percentage or fraction. I think the most important thing is that we have the right basis, and then we have to take decisions which, whether you are in favour or against sending our contribution, are a very heavy and very serious decision, one of the most serious that we can take here. It can be said that the purpose of today's debate has not been for me or for the government to judge the historic decisions, but instead to discuss how we can use these experiences forward-lookingly. And I can say that the historical analysis confirms me in how crucial it is that decisions to send Danish military contributions to the world's hotspots are made on an enlightened basis, as I mentioned. I am pleased, and thank you for that, that the Danish Parliament has today agreed on a text which is so important that the government's involvement of the Danish Parliament in such decisions must be both early and complete and, at the same time, ensure that we draw the necessary lessons from the military efforts along the way, but also subsequently. This is something that I would like to stress on the part of the government we are doing a great deal to live up to. Then I would like to mention to Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, the rapporteur of the Left, said that it was not a real decision to close down the commission that was going to look at, among other things, the Commission. the basis of the Iraq war, as the previous government did. It was a wrong decision. It's untimely. Once you have started a commission work, you have to finish it. So does this government. We also want them to be allowed to finish their work when a commission is set up in the future. I also think it would be nice if we could agree on this in the Folketing. That would be really good. It is true that, in the meantime, there has been a historical analysis which contributes some important things to highlighting both Iraq, Afghanistan and Kosovo. This is something we can learn from, I think, and something that is important in our work, but I do not think it is an excuse for what the government did. It was a mistake and I hope that is not something a future bourgeois government will repeat. I think that would be quite wrong. Søren Espersen in that modern warfare is a complex matter. I mentioned that there may be many coalition partners in a concrete operation, and there may also be many different ethnic groups and dynamics on the ground. That is why I think it is important to say that when I said, on behalf of the government, that co-thinking between, for example. military interventions and civilian interventions are an important part of this being better at succeeding in the operations we are doing, because that is something we need to be even better at. Because, as many have also said, I think we will only win war and peace and achieve the objectives we would like to achieve if we also have civilian efforts alongside military efforts to address the underlying causes of the conflicts and dynamics at stake in a region where we are putting in place. So I think modern warfare is very complex and important to relate to. I would like to say to Eva Flyvholm that I agreed with what was said about the closure of the Commission; I do not think we can disagree on that. I also agree that we must strive for as broad a majority as possible. Karsten Hønge is also what this government is doing. But the most important first, and that is that we can pursue an active foreign and security policy that safeguards Denmark's interests. I also believe and hope that there will also be broad support for this when we clarify things properly together. But it is important that we can do it and that we can do it at any time. Finally, because my time is running out, I would like to thank the other rapporteurs too. To Henrik Dahl I would say that I wondered about the very fine review of the different epochs or paradigms if we are to stay in that language. After all, Jürgen Habermas has written an excellently reviewed book, which I have not yet read. It could be my own New Year's and Christmas wish. I think it is over 1,700 pages, and it describes this very relationship about how politics and religion are mixed together in a modern age in what you call the age of terror from 2001 onwards. I believe that, in order to qualify our knowledge base for decision-making, we need to look down deeply to find the answers. So we live in a complex world where there are many things at stake. What can be said with certainty is that square approaches to the world rarely make things succeed in the end. So thank you for your contribution, too. And thanks to Sjúrður Skaale for, I think it was a Kierkegaard reference that came in here eventually. Thank you for a good debate. I look forward to continuing the work on implementing the good recommendations from the war investigation and also the things that lie in the proposal for adoption. The government is looking forward to doing so together with the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219130225	Thank you. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219130227	So now I really want to challenge the Foreign Minister: is the Foreign Minister capable of imagining probably in the distant future, on a dark and gloomy day, when the Socialists are not in government, and where we may even have such a Foghsk militaristic government, which, in the usual ignorant way, disregards other views, if otherwise the Secretary of State is able to imagine that it might be good in such a situation that one had a leash in the government by saying that there should be a two-thirds majority behind sending Danish soldiers to war?
ParlaMint-DK_20191219130303	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219130306	I'm having a hard time imagining that day, as sir. Karsten Hønge describes where Social Democracy is not an important party. No, it is really crucial to keep our priorities in mind. I believe and hope and work hard to ensure that we have broad support for our foreign and security policy, including, of course, when we send our people to war. That is absolutely crucial. I believe that Denmark's security and our security policy interest must always be put at the forefront, and I hope that the parties in this Parliament will help to lift it. The government is not going to lay down on a fraction, but we are endeavouring to get as broad support as possible in the Folketing and there I think we fully share the intention, Mr. Karsten Hønge and I think we're gonna make it. There are very few cases where we have not succeeded, and I actually believe that with the work we have started, for example. to get earlier involvement of the jury, evaluations of our efforts, better descriptions of what the strategies and objectives, etc. If we make contributions, we can succeed in getting a very broad involvement. But that is up to the parties in the Folketing, and we must respect that. That is also how democracy is linked.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219130412	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219130412-2	I really appreciate such a positive and optimistic mind, especially during the Christmas season, when we hope for the best for each other, but that is surely not enough. One could imagine that things looked somewhat different at another time, and why should we not make sure now? And what is a broad political majority; is it quite much wider than a narrow turn? What are the concepts we have here?
ParlaMint-DK_20191219130433	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219130435	I'm glad we share the same intention. And then we must also remember that the Constitution is clear in relation to how the Folketing decides or gives its consent, which I believe Mr. Søren Espersen mentioned in his rapporteur's speech. That's the way it is. Having said that, however, I think it is important that we work together to get broad support for what we are doing, and that is what the government will do. I hope that the parties will work with us. When you look at the operations that we have had, I think there has been enormous broad support: 97%. support for MINUSMA and 90 per cent. Support for the Operation Barkhane here in the Danish Parliament. I'm really glad I've succeeded.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219130515	There is one further comment. Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219130529	Thank you, Minister. I think it is a good thing that we are tightening up, what to say, understanding how to do things, in terms of how it has been in the past. But it is still my wish that we could continue with the parts of the investigation that are needed, i.e. the parts that have not been dealt with in the historical war investigation. In fact, I would like to take the opportunity to ask the Minister all this about the responsibility for the prisoners taken during the Iraq and Afghanistan war. So some of the people who were tortured: is it not still something we owe to our democracy to have properly examined, in relation to what actually happened there and whether the Danish state has a responsibility? I'm pretty sure we do. Isn't this something that we all actually owe it to us to get a thorough look at? It has not been studied in the historical analysis. We have an opportunity to do that now. The government has a majority; the rest of us want to join. So what does the Secretary of State think?
ParlaMint-DK_20191219130631	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219130632	Thank you. After all, it is important to stress that, in relation to the prisoners and the detainees, there is a lead in the courts, and I think we should rely on that and see what the courts are going to do in this regard. And, yes, of course, we are aware of all the challenges this case of prisoners and detention has given, but let us wait and see what our courts and our judicial system are going to find here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219130702	I just have to challenge it and say that it is simply not the same. The fact that, as a state, you take an independent responsibility to investigate whether there has been torture and whether you have a responsibility there and then wait for someone to sue you is not the same as what has happened now. It's a completely different track running in court. Someone has filed a lawsuit against the Danish state. If we looked at it properly, we would take responsibility ourselves, which I believe is also the responsibility of the state when it comes to such serious accusations as torture. Can the Foreign Minister not see that there is a difference between sitting and waiting to be sued or whether you are actually active and going in and trying to clean up yourself?
ParlaMint-DK_20191219130741	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219130742	I would like to stress that if there are serious accusations of torture, etc., there are systems to handle such an investigation, and there must always be. But there are cases before the courts in relation to the detention of prisoners, and I think that we should see the outcome of and respect that there are these processes. However, we will never take lightly any suspicion of the use of torture or abuse or other things in relation to prisoners with whom we have had any connection. That is something we are always very aware of, and I think that applies to the government in office at all times.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219130821	We thank the Secretary of State. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. The vote on the proposed amendments will take place tomorrow, Friday 20 December.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219130936	The debate is open. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219131003	Thank you, President. Let me start by stating that it is heartblood for the government to safeguard Danish welfare and the Danish labour market model. It cannot be any different for a social democratic government. The government has the very clear position that Danish welfare services should remain in Denmark as far as possible, and I believe basically that the closer arrangement of the Danish welfare and labour market model should be a matter for the Folketing and the social partners respectively. Therefore, the government also works actively and continuously to ensure that new EU legislation will not challenge well-functioning Danish solutions. I must also say here that the proposal put forward is not the way forward, because such a reservation will actually be a Danish farewell to the internal market, and the government does not want that. The internal market is far from perfect, but we must stay at the negotiating table and take the fight. It is the government's view that EU cooperation is a clear advantage for Denmark and the Danes. We recognise the value of the internal market to which more than half a million Danish jobs are linked, but it is also no secret that we in the government want a more united Europe, where freedom of movement also becomes fair movement, where there is a greater focus on the conditions of workers and where respect for well-functioning national systems is better ensured. And that is necessary because, although the internal market is both a generator of growth and prosperity for Denmark and a basis for our welfare, there are serious shadows of increasing globalisation, and that is why we must also ensure that the free movement of labour does not become a back door to exploitation, abuse and greed. It is essential for the government's vision of a free and fair internal market that the free movement of workers takes place under conditions that do not undermine national pay and working conditions or weaken national welfare models. As far as welfare services are concerned, the basic philosophy behind the rules on the coordination of social services is that EU citizens, whether they are slaughterhouse workers, IT technicians or chemical engineers who choose to take a job in another country, should not be left without social security. That is the basic philosophy and it is a good and healthy philosophy and a good principle. In fact, in many ways it is also a prerequisite for free movement to work in practice, because we will not accept that workers are left behind, for example. Denmark without social security. However, although the basic philosophy behind the rules is good, it is the view of the government that the enforcement and control of the rules today are not good enough. The rules need to be adapted so that access to social security benefits is fairer and more equitable. The Danish welfare model is based on right and duty, and it undermines trust and cohesion if unfair easy and rapid access to Danish welfare services is opened up for citizens who have not previously contributed to the funding. We want to make demands, clear demands, as a prerequisite for receiving social benefits. If you really move to Denmark and work and pay taxes here, you will of course have the right to Danish benefits, but as a migrant worker you have to provide before you can enjoy. It is not a big sum today, but it is not so crucial to me, because it is a question of fairness and fairness. It is also a fundamental problem that access to welfare services helps to create social dumping. We believe that employees should receive the same pay for the same work in the same place, and that is why we want, for example, to continue to make it possible to index the children's cheque so that it follows the price level in the country where the child is staying. An indexing will address the problem that brodden vessels among employers can use the high Danish benefits as a kind of wage subsidy to foreign workers who send money home to their families in their home country. If freedom of movement is also to be fair movement, it requires us to strengthen the fight against social dumping, as we do, for example. We have just done so in connection with the new Finance Act, and we are also working actively for it to be strengthened within the framework of the European Union, among other things. with our proposal for a blacklist of social dumping companies and the introduction of identity cards for migrant workers. With this we can strengthen control over who is in Danish jobs and ensure that they are not subjected to social dumping. The government's pointers are that the Danish model must be respected, that social dumping must be combated, that we want a more united Europe. We will enter into a dialogue with the newly joined Commission and other countries on how to increase the concern for workers and citizens in EU cooperation and we will strengthen the fight against social dumping. We are pleased to note that the newly elected President of the Commission has stated in his political guidelines that: 'It is high time that we united the social and market conditions of the modern economy. ▪ We must build on this, and that is also why the government's position is that the proposed proposal is not the way forward, and instead, within the framework of the European Union, we will fight to ensure that free movement also becomes a fair movement. We are doing this by staying at the negotiating table and taking the fight in the European Union instead of throwing ourselves into castles about new reservations and treaty changes. We will not solve the major challenges of social dumping, international tax fraud, the climate crisis, the refugee and migrant crisis alone, because we cannot do that alone, let alone by standing outside the door outside influence. No, it requires solutions in a binding European Community, but also with respect for what the countries themselves are doing best. This is the best way to take care of Denmark and the EU cooperation. EU cooperation is a clear advantage for Denmark and us Danes, and we must stick to that, but we must make future EU cooperation more fair. In the light of the considerations I have set out here, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution, and I therefore call on the government to reject the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219131701	Then it's Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219131704	Thank you, President. It is actually a strange mistrust expressed here by the Minister for Foreign Affairs to the Danish Parliament. Because if you have to follow the reasoning, it is that we have to have the European Union to secure labour and social legislation in Denmark, so that the citizens of other EU countries want to come here and work. How about saying: Well people outside Denmark are so enlightened that they can see how things are in Denmark, take stock of them and therefore make a gifted and considered decision on where to work, without the EU deciding what rights they should have? In fact, Denmark has a tradition of developing the welfare society in a democratic way which, I would say, lets the European Union hear something. So why is it actually, Foreign Minister, that we cannot just decide here in the Folketing for ourselves what kind of benefits EU citizens can get? If the Minister for Foreign Affairs is so disappointed, he can just make a proposal that states that EU citizens, for example. have access to Danish children's allowance. Why is it part-out that it should be foreign politicians down in the EU who decide this kind of thing?
ParlaMint-DK_20191219131815	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219131816	Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. I mean, this government is guarding our Danish labour market model and welfare model. At the same time, we are also vigilant about the EU membership that we have, which means that we are part of the internal market and that we have about half a million jobs linked to the fact that we can trade with each other in the internal market. We do not want to gamble with Danish jobs. At the same time, within the framework of the EU cooperation we have, we want to change the policies, the rules, so that they protect against, among others. wage dumping and possible speculation on social benefits. What is in the motion for a resolution will de facto turn Denmark out of the internal market, de facto put us outside the door, outside influence, and I must just say that is not the philosophy of this government. We want to take influence. We believe and know that we belong at the table where we can make a difference, also on behalf of the many Danes who, fortunately, also support an active EU commitment.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219131917	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219131918	Then I just want to hear from the Secretary of State how it's going with taking this influence. I mean, this government is not the first to see a problem with welfare crowns coming out of the country because of EU rules. So did the former Lars Løkke Rasmussen government, the former Helle Thorning-Schmidt government, the previous Anders Fogh Rasmussen government. Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs mention a single area in which Denmark has managed to change the rules for access to social benefits under EU law in the direction we would like to see in just one area over the last 10-15 years? I think that would be good for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219131949	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219131951	It is so funny because the rapporteur says here: should we not just do something quite different where we sit completely outside of influence because it is difficult to influence? Well, we have, for example. adopted a new Posting of Workers Directive in relation to the labour market, which is very important. We are on the way with a new road package which is important in stopping the wild west that is on our roads and motorways when it comes to truck transport. The difference is, of course, that we are taking the fight and making a difference in EU cooperation. The path indicated by the Danish People's Party will, of course, be a direct way to be outside any influence, and the Danes are not served by that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219132027	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219132030	I don't think I heard an answer to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt's question. In other words, where have we changed the rules in the field of social policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20191219132039	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219132041	But what I clearly stress is that when we go in and negotiate, we are negotiating to ensure fair and reasonable treatment, including in relation to the social security of migrant workers. And it is true that no decision has yet been taken, for example. indexing child pay, which goes in our direction, but we are working to ensure that it goes in our direction. And we follow, for example. It is also close to what is happening in Austria, which has introduced it at national level, in other words how the European Court of Justice interprets what has been done here. So we are so concerned about ensuring justice and fairness in our policies, and this government's blackmail ministers in the areas are in full swing with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219132124	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219132126	In fact, I do not understand the social democracy, and it is quite sincere, because the very sensible change in the policy of foreigners that the party has made is due to the fact that the welfare state is national and not universal. That is very sensible, and that is entirely right from a technical point of view. Why is it that no more effort is made to maintain this principle that the welfare state is national? Because it will also destroy the welfare state, which is the jewel in the socialist crown.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219132154	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219132155	Well for us, the welfare state is national, and the decisions that have to do with how we organize the welfare state are some decisions we take here in the Folketing, here in Denmark. And so it will continue to be; that is what we are working for, and that is what we are fighting for. At the same time, we are part of the internal market and the European Union, which provides a framework for, among other things. migrant workers, to which I referred in my reply. And if we want to have access to the internal market and the benefits it brings, we must also ensure that the abuse of the rights that you have, among other things. companies, when they pick up foreign labour, are not something that can be invoked in Denmark. So there we want to combat social dumping and, for example, get better rules against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219132233	Thank you, Minister. Then it's mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219132247	We in the Social Democratic Party are fighting for the Danish welfare model. We are doing so here in Denmark, and we have done so in Europe. We work hard every day to ensure fair and fair European cooperation that does not undermine national pay and working conditions or weaken national welfare models. Freedom of movement across Europe must go hand in hand with fair access to social services. For us, it is important that Danish welfare services remain in Denmark as far as possible, and the right of companies to post employees must not become a free place for social dumping. Most recently, we have been involved in adopting a road package in the European Union that ensures that free movement does not undermine the right to proper pay and working conditions in transport. However, we do not call the Danish welfare community by resigning from the internal market, on the contrary. We fight best for Danish welfare by sitting at the table, not by standing outside the door. A reservation is not the way to influence. It goes without saying that Denmark's prosperity is on the shoulders of the internal market, which we, together with our European neighbours, have set foot. And the internal market is closely linked to welfare. But that does not mean that there are not shadow sides as well. The internal market is based on a principle of free movement and also on responsible mobility. We have undertaken to look after our employees because we do not want a Europe in which rights and social security are left at the border. It must not be possible to compete on poor working conditions. It is therefore an artificial division when the Danish People's Party wants to distinguish between welfare and the internal market. In Denmark, the labour market is linked to welfare. Fortunately, it is also doing so in Europe, and we are pleased about that. But freedom of movement must also be fair movement. The internal market is far from seamless. Particularly when it comes to workers' rights and welfare benefits, strong efforts are needed for the Danish welfare and labour market model. And the Social Democratic Party would like to take the lead in this. We will not accept unreasonable shortcuts to Danish welfare benefits. But in the social democracy we believe that there is room for the Danish welfare model within the framework of European cooperation. It is clear that there are challenges, but we do not deal with them by sticking our tails between our legs. We put our clothes on and then we fight for fair and responsible movement. That is why a reservation is not the way forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219132502	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219132503	I noticed that the rapporteur, like the Minister for Foreign Affairs, used the expression that it is important to sit at the table. And it can be nice to sit at the table, and you can look around your friends and enjoy the fine company you've come in. But I'm pretty sure that for most Danes it's not enough that the government just sits at the table. You want something there, too. For what does it mean for the Danes who have one of the world's highest taxes that the government sits at the table, if the government does not actually come home to the Danes with something from its desk? That is why I would just like to ask the Social Democrat rapporteur, just as I asked the Foreign Minister, who unfortunately was unable to give a full answer, in fact no answer at all, whether the rapporteur is able to give an example of access to welfare services, where the last 15 years, and I would also like to extend it kindly to the last 20 years, now that Christmas is imminent, a Danish government has succeeded in negotiating something home in the direction of what we seem to agree relatively in this Parliament, namely that the European Union should not interfere, that we should not have a social union. Is there a single example of how we managed to get something home from the famous table, sir? Lars Aslan Rasmussen?
ParlaMint-DK_20191219132611	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219132612	There are plenty of examples. In fact, I also think the Minister for Foreign Affairs answered Mr. Morten Messerschmidt mentioned earlier, the road package, mentioned the Posting of Workers Directive, mentioned a number of other things, as far as I heard, I assume it was the same speech we heard. But the truth is that the Danish People's Party wants to go all the way out. Well, that proposal hasn't come up yet. When will the proposal made by the Danish People's Party for a referendum to come out completely? It's not gonna happen. Then you start with little things like that. The rapporteur must then also admit that the internal market has also been a success for Denmark. And the consequence of this would be that we should leave the internal market. I don't know if that'll give more welfare to the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219132644	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219132645	I am sure the President-in-Office of the Council will hand over to Mr Giscard d'Estaing. Lars Aslan Rasmussen has the right to ask me questions when I stand where Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen is standing now. Until then, sir, we'll deal with it. Lars Aslan Rasmussen says, and that is not the answer to the given question. The Posting Directive is not a question of access to Danish child benefit, daily allowance, cash benefits and su. The road package, which the Minister of Foreign Affairs mentioned earlier in his inexorableness, has nothing to do with Danish sugar, daily allowances, cash benefits or any of the other things. So that's why, sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, representing the only party today in government in Denmark: Give one example of the fact that in the area we are talking about, it has been useful for the Danes that the government sits around the table.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219132726	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219132728	This has something to do with what society we want, what rights we have as a worker within the European Union in relation to mobility, and the Foreign Minister has mentioned this. The Danish People's Party simply forgets to tell us what the consequence is. It is precisely the cost of Danish welfare if we leave the internal market.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219132746	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219132749	I have been in the field of research for many years and su is a major problem. There is a virtually unanimous Parliament which is dissatisfied with the disappearance of so much su out of Denmark. The previous government also struggled with it, but we were put on the gate because we were not good enough. Now we've got a great government. What is it going to do to solve this su problem, which we all agree is far too big and a serious problem for our su system?
ParlaMint-DK_20191219132818	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219132819	It takes the government very seriously, as it did before and raised it in the relevant forums. But I do not know whether the Liberal Alliance thinks it is better not to be there, i.e. whether it is better protection. What's the alternative? Should we resign or not attend meetings? No, we cannot get our way every time, but we can at least make an effort to influence the system.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219132838	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219132841	We may be delighted about this, but the fact is that it is so subversive of the will to pay for our system, the acceptance of our system, the acceptance of the decisions that are being taken. All attempts to stop this escape of services out of the country are really in vain.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219132902	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219132903	I'm sorry. It wasn't to make me merry about it. I think it's a big problem. We in the Social Democratic Party think so. I just don't understand what the alternative is. You have to keep trying. There are things that take a long time, but there are probably historical lots of things that we have got changed by continuing to fight for it in different forums.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219132916	Then we say thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur and we must move on in the rapporteur's line to the Left. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219132931	Thank you very much, sir. Jens Rohde and not least thank you for the floor. And thank you to the Danish People's Party for tabling a motion for a resolution on the European Union. After all, it is nice to be allowed to debate the European Union here in the Assembly Chamber and not just up in the otherwise nice and nice meeting room of the Committee of Europe on the second floor. What the proposal is about is that the Danish People's Party wants the government to demand a so-called welfare reservation in the EU. It is a re-submission of a previous motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party, and then only the Danish People's Party itself thought it was a good idea to have another reservation, and I still believe that the party is right alone. Perhaps New Citizens have joined the car, but I cannot imagine that there would be other parties here in the Danish Parliament who might think that Denmark should have more Some might think that we should keep the ones we have. We on the Left would like to see them abolished, but the fact that we had to have more reservations is not the way forward. The Danish People's Party considers it unreasonable that child benefit, su and other welfare benefits should be paid to EU citizens staying in Denmark, and we in the Left at least agree to some extent on the issue of child benefit. It is not reasonable to receive child support at Danish level for children staying in a country where the costs are significantly lower. However, because there is a large but, at no point in its resolution, the Danish People's Party mentions what a huge surplus business the free movement is for Denmark. Despite the costs we have, which can be discussed fairly, this is a surplus business. I have just had the Minister of Employment in consultation on freedom of movement, so I have some figures in fresh memory, and one of those I remember is that back in 2018, the 242,000 EU and EEA citizens in Denmark paid 6.4 billion. kr. more in taxes than they received in welfare benefits, i.e. a plus of 6.4 billion. kr., when you count the whole thing. So I can't quite understand why the Danish People's Party feels so cheated on the weight, because the weight bowl is clearly in Danish favor. So I must disappoint the Danish People's Party that the Left does not want to support a reservation of welfare in this case either. We believe that Denmark's place is at the negotiating table. Here we have the best opportunities to take care of Denmark's interests, and we have no interest whatsoever in working for new reservations or new treaty changes that take us further away from the core. We want to get closer to the core. Moreover, as the Minister also mentioned, a reservation of welfare would, of course, very likely mean that we would have to wave quite goodbye to the internal market and all the benefits we have from the internal market. I would also like to welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that we support the view of the Left, which is that we cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219133248	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219133251	It is not surprising that Jan E. Jørgensen has just made a statement here, or one can say that it is surprisingly perhaps rather that one persistently maintains a view completely unaffected by the fact that things are going in the opposite direction to what one wants. In other words, since we last had this debate, more and more EU citizens have come to Danish su, more and more Danish welfare crowns are going to people who have no immediate connection with Denmark. So it's amazing that you're so impervious to the reality of the Left. That is why I would just like to ask: what really is the Left's solution? In other words, you think you will be kicked out of the European Union if you work for a new reservation. Denmark therefore has a number of factors at the moment, including: The cottage reservation, which is also an exception to the internal market, will be known to the rapporteur. We have the legal reservation, we have the euro reservation. And that has not, of course, led to Denmark being kicked out. So what is it that, in these brexittids, where the whole of the European Union is supposed to define itself anyway, should lead Denmark to be thrown out if the government were to make the profane wish in the European Union that we would therefore like to be allowed to manage our welfare crowns ourselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20191219133356	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219133357	I'm glad I didn't surprise you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt, and I can also say that Mr. Nor has Morten Messerschmidt surprised me here today. We're two parties you know where you have. Left and Danish People's Party you know where you have, and that's fine. And in the debate on the European Union, we are, after all, a little apart. I think it is somewhat sought to compare the summer house rule with a welfare reservation. In other words, the fact that you work on equal terms with your colleagues, even if you come from another EU country, is such a fundamental part of free movement that it is almost self-evident that you would not be able to discriminate against people who come from Sweden or from Germany or somewhere else and who come and work in Danish companies, so that you would not be able to give them a worse treatment than you give Danish employees. It goes without saying that, of course, other countries would not tolerate it. Nor would we do so if other countries were to discriminate negatively against Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219133453	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219133454	What is so weird is that the Left by no means has this mimose approach compared to the many other countries that are not members of the European Union. If you come from Bulgaria to Denmark, Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, that it is imperative for the EU to ensure that it has access to child benefit and daily allowance and everything else good from the Danish welfare fund. If you come from Ukraine, then that is a completely different matter. Then it is precisely in Denmark, here in the Danish Parliament, that it is possible for us to organise the rules. So what I don't understand is how sir... Jan E. Jørgensen and the Left may think that we in the Folketing can make decisions about access to welfare benefits for Ukrainians and Russians and Chinese and Indians etc., but it is terrible if we do so in relation to Bulgarians and Romanians and Poles and other good people. Why this discrimination, sir? Jan E. Jørgensen?
ParlaMint-DK_20191219133543	That's not so weird. That is because those countries are members of the European Union, and it is China and the other exciting countries, as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt listed, that is to say not; and there is a mutual commitment. After all, the rights granted to EU citizens in Denmark are also granted to Danish citizens in the other EU countries, where quite a lot of people have gone out to work. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt himself, if he did not at least get paid to sit in the European Parliament. It is not a job, it is a job; it is something else. Would it then be thought that there was discrimination which applied only in one way? Of course, that's not gonna work. Rights and obligations go hand in hand.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219133621	Thank you, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen. Then that's how it is, sir. Mr Messerschmidt, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, presented the proposal himself. The rapporteur, in this case Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, usually has 10 minutes, and then you can split them up. So, sir. Morten Messerschmidt is given the floor twice in this debate, and it is first as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. Here you go, sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219133645	Thank you, President, and thank you for your willingness to deal with the Rules of Procedure. After all, it is interesting to follow how the parties here are winding up parties who, on the one hand, know that the European Union is good and, even if it turns out that the European Union is not so good, they quickly return to the general rule, namely that the European Union is good. It is the automatic pilot who has been set up in the world, and if it turns out that there are proposals that made the European Union a little better, you can immediately pull the eternal scare rabbit out of the hat, namely: if you adopt it, we will be thrown out of the European Union, and we cannot afford that, can we? Denmark is simply on invoice! This is what the EU parties represent here in the Parliamentary Chamber, a Denmark which is about black or red figures and which is about whether it is a good business or whether it is a bad business. It is not a matter of being a free nation, not a matter of being master of your own house, not of listening to the voters. In fact, I believe that voters can choose to reason on the basis of it alone, because one understands how to adapt the rhetoric. Five years ago, Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen is standing in the hall and says: "We cannot have a system where, just because you plant your clogs in a strawberry field one day, you can send large children's checks home to countries where the cost of living is much, much lower and where the number of children may also be higher. Thus, Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen 5 years ago. What, then, has happened from the time when we could not have such a system as we now have? Yeah, the system's only gotten worse. Access to benefits has become easier, the number of benefits covered has increased, and the number of crowns sent to people with only a peripheral relationship with the Danish labour market and an almost philosophical relationship with the Danish tax system...
ParlaMint-DK_20191219133840	Excuse me, sir. Morten Messerschmidt, but the rapporteur's speech is very much addressed to the government, and I think it would be very good if the Minister for Foreign Affairs also listened to what is actually being said from the platform in this context. Morten Messerschmidt again.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219133900	Thank you, President-in-Office. I am very pleased that the President has thus shown the need to listen. Sometimes it can hurt so much to hear things that you need self-distraction, but of course I am listening to the President. So is Lars Løkke Rasmussen. Since then we had Mrs Helle Thorning-Schmidt, who, as Prime Minister, thought that we should discuss whether there is a need to change the regulation and would raise the matter with the President of the Commission. The President of the Commission is so outgoing and we have a new one. The discussions which Mrs Helle Thorning-Schmidt apparently started have not led to anything. But perhaps the fatherland has a new savior, for now we have a new prime minister, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, who, the year before she became prime minister, said: "The Danish welfare benefits are the starting point for us who live and live in Denmark. In other words, we have three prime ministers who have all put the Danes in view of the fact that the Danish welfare benefits are for us who live and live in Denmark, and it is not too much that we as a humble parliamentarian ask the question: How is it going? But you can't get the answer. Yes, you can, you can have a loose chat about a road package and some rules on posting, which may have been changed, but which are basically about trying to avoid it, because it is certainly not an answer. I can lift the veil to the moony people and say that neither in the rules on posting nor in the last revised road package is there any indication that Danish su, Danish cash benefits rules, Danish unemployment benefits rules or any of the things which three prime ministers have thus put the Danes in view should be changed. And there I sit as a representative of the Danish People's Party with a feeling that it is a little bit poor. If you had a manly government that dared to stand up for reality and for itself and for its own policy, you could just go out and say that we will never change this, because the interests of the European Union to get the trunk into the Danish welfare services are so overwhelming that it is completely illusory to imagine that we will ever change it here, but you wouldn't even dare. That is why we come up with an explanation from the hot countries when we say: we are also working on things; we are not quite afraid to take the step towards a reservation of welfare, but we really share the intentions. Excuse me, Minister, if we have to say from our position gradually that the belief that you have the intentions can rest in a very small place, not least when you cannot even give as much as one example that the last 15 or 20 years have actually gone in the direction that we want, as many people say they want, and which I am convinced of a large majority of the population outside this Chamber want. It's not enough to sit at the table with this eternal pussy. What this is about is that Danish interests are taken care of at the table, and I have to say that this government lives entirely up to the previous ones by nothing to do. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219134203	Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. And then I am in the bizarre situation that I should actually give the floor to myself as rapporteur, but there has been a planning error, and that is why I simply have to say that the Radical Left cannot support the proposal. And, of course, I shall not make a speech, because there is no debate with the President, so that would be unfair to Mr Beazley. Morten Messerschmidt. So I hope that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt forgives the fact that the calendar has just gone a little rough. We are therefore going straight ahead in the rapporteur's line and that is SF's Mrs Halime Oguz.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219134243	Thank you, sir. President. I would like to start by thanking the proposers of the Danish People's Party for putting forward the proposal to oblige the government to work for a welfare reservation in the European Union. But let me start by stating that for SF it is of the utmost importance to take care of our welfare society and one of its main pillars, namely our very well-functioning Danish labour market model. The European Union allows us to bind European labour markets together and improve social conditions across borders, so that you also have proper rights and not have no social security when you as a worker seek work in another country. And that's good. At the same time, however, it is important to make it clear that the free movement of workers must not become a back door opening to abuse, exploitation and greed, which we have unfortunately seen examples of. The free movement of workers must take place under conditions that do not undermine national pay and working conditions or weaken the welfare models of each country. In the SF, we want a Europe where freedom of movement is also fair movement, and we want a greater focus to be placed on workers' conditions so that all citizens experience a balance between the market and the Community. With regard to the proposal that we are discussing today, we do not believe that a reservation of welfare is the right way to go. A reservation such as that proposed by the Danish People's Party will actually turn us out of the internal market, which benefits Danish society with tens of thousands of jobs and billions of dollars in earnings every year. We have no interest in introducing this. The internal market is far from perfect, and it needs to be improved so that we do not challenge the functioning of the national models, for example. the Danish welfare system. That fight must be taken at the negotiating table in the EU, and therefore the SF cannot support the proposal to oblige the government to work for a welfare reservation in the EU.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219134456	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Messerschmidt, but I apologise for just intervening, because I think the rapporteur should send a message of greeting from another party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219134512	Yeah, that's right. I should send a message from the Alternative saying that they do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219134521	Here you go, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. There are a lot of substitutes today, but sir... Morten Messerschmidt is there on his own.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219134529	Greetings are always nice, too, from the Alternative. When the SF's rapporteur talks about the internal market and about Denmark being thrown out of the internal market if we decide that it is here in the Folketing that the rules for granting social benefits are decided, it might be that we should look back together on how the internal market has developed. I assume that Mrs Halime Oguz, for example. In the Su area, that is what we are talking about. We are aware of the Grzelczyk judgment of 1986, in which the European Court of Justice makes it very clear that su is not part of the internal market. So in the mid-1980s, access to such a right was not a right which could be demanded as a migrant worker under EU rules. And I would just like to ask: is it Mrs Halime Oguz's view that in 1986 there was no single market?
ParlaMint-DK_20191219134623	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219134624	Unfortunately, I didn't understand the last of what you said, but what I wanted to say...
ParlaMint-DK_20191219134635	Then I'd like to give Mr. Morten Messerschmidt has the opportunity to ask the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219134640	Thank you, President. I heard Mrs Halime Oguz say that you cannot have the internal market without also having access to welfare services. If we then talk specifically about su, then the European Court of Justice decided in 1986 that su was not part of the internal market. I would therefore like to know whether the rapporteur thinks that there was no internal market at the time. If we cannot now have an internal market without access to the market, and then we had no access to the market within the rules in force, was there not a single market in 1986?
ParlaMint-DK_20191219134714	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219134716	Thank you for the question. What I wanted to point out, and what I have also emphasised, is that the internal market actually benefits us Danes. It benefits us in the sense that, for example, it benefits us. The ROCKWOOL Foundation has shown in several reports that the free movement of labour contributes billions of kroner to the Danish Treasury. And I am assuming that the Danish People's Party actually protects the welfare society • the welfare society where we have the opportunity to develop our institutions, for minimum standards, for stronger health care and for many other things. So just picking out one element simply makes no sense, because we are entitled to the same benefits in the other countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219134814	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219134815	I can fully confirm that the Danish People's Party is very concerned about the welfare state. That's why we, among other things. is so much against sending welfare crowns to people who shouldn't have them. But that is not really an answer to the question. Mrs Halime Oguz, along with other EU-positive parties, is trying to put up that strange contradiction that you cannot have an internal market without social union. It is only then that I demonstrate that the internal market, which has therefore existed in different versions, at least for Denmark since 1973, has in fact once been able to function without the European Union deciding on the social benefits to which migrant workers should be entitled. There it is, then, just that I would like to hear from the Socialist People's Party: why could we not go back to it? Why would this mean the disappearance of the entire internal market?
ParlaMint-DK_20191219134859	Mrs. Halime Oguz.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219134900	I would say that, in the SF, we are, of course, ready to discuss if there are any problems with the coordination of social services in the European Union, but to withdraw completely from the current negotiations in the European Union, I do not really think it appropriate to discuss right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219134921	Thank you, we say to the SF rapporteur. Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund representing Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219134933	Thank you for that, President. Now I understand that the rapporteur for the authors of the motion is happy to have his greetings, so I can say hello to him. Søren Søndergaard, who is unfortunately unable to be present here today, and therefore I shall humbly try to defend and defend the positions of Enhedslisten. The Enhedslisten basically agrees that it is the Danish Parliament and not the EU that should determine the rules for access to welfare services. On the other hand, we are clearly opposed to the introduction of profit principles for welfare services. We regard this as an attempt to undermine the principles of our tax-financed welfare system, which is based on the fact that all taxpayers have the right to the welfare benefits they can obtain for their tax payments. We regard it as a discrimination against Danish and foreign workers because it also affects Danish workers who pay tax in this country, if you introduce profit principles that mean that you do not have the same rights to welfare benefits as other taxpayers. It is discrimination based on an unpleasant myth that foreign workers who come to this country come to plunge their trunks into our public purses, so-called welfare tourism. But there's no evidence of that suspicion. There is no evidence of that, as it is called in Nudansk. Foreigners come here to work and not to cheat. In addition, reservations about social benefits are not sufficient. The Enhedslisten considers that the EU's involvement in labour market rules, for example. The Posting of Workers Directive and the interpretation of this by the European Court of Justice, which restricts the right of Member States to impose the same requirements on posted companies as on Danish companies, are just as serious a problem. A possible demand for a fifth exception should therefore in general include the EU's social policy and be formulated very precisely so that it is made clear that the EU's rules on free movement do not affect Denmark's right to establish sovereign rules on the labour market, social and welfare policy and tax policy, as indeed it was and has been the prerequisite since the vote on Danish membership in 1972. In this form, therefore, the Enhedslisten cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219135143	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219135146	I have to say that the rapporteur surprised me. The whole speech by the rapporteur points out that this proposal can then be supported. If I may just quote from my own proposal:'Such a reservation will ensure that all decisions on payments of sickness, unemployment benefit, child benefit or other benefits to EU citizens who are in Denmark always have a majority in the Folketing behind them. ▪ Is there anything in it that it is the Danish Parliament here that decides who should have paid Danish welfare benefits which Enhedslisten cannot see himself in? I believe that many people will be interested in the critical left of the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219135220	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219135223	The Enhedslisten agrees that it is the Danish Parliament that must decide how Danish welfare benefits should be awarded. The principle on which we do not agree, as set out in this motion for a resolution, is that there must be a principle of profit. That is the principle of profit itself, as I explained in my rapporteur's speech, which Enhedslisten is and has always been opposed to. If we are going to look at the whole social area and talk about a fifth welfare reservation, we will have to take the whole labour market area under it. And for Enhedslisten, an income principle will not be part of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219135257	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219135258	I do not understand what the rapporteur is saying at all. This proposal is about Denmark taking back the power to decide for itself who should receive benefits and under what conditions. In other words, it is up to the Members of this House, the 179, to decide. And then you have to find out if there is support for an income principle. That is what the proposal is about. So if this is the misunderstanding that can be easily eliminated, then I expect that Enhedslisten can back it up.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219135330	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219135333	No, we can't. For, as I explained in my speech, we believe that, if we are to talk about a fifth reservation of welfare, the whole area will have to be taken, and this not only concerns the acquisition of the right to social benefits, in which the principle of profit, which the Danish People's Party has previously strongly advocated, also lies. You have to look at the whole area broadly, also in relation to the labour market, in order to examine how we ensure the rights of Danish workers in the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219135400	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Peder Hvelplund. Then it's mr. Peter Seier Christensen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219135409	Thank you for the floor. We think that this is an excellent proposal, such as Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen foretold that the Danish People's Party has now received support for their proposals. New citizens are working to ensure that Denmark joins the European Union, like the British, but we are still a member of the European Union, and we must accept and respect that, and we must therefore work constructively to make the best of membership for Denmark. In New Citizens we support a reservation of welfare, as formulated by the proposers of B 38. The fact that the EU can decide when child benefit, sickness benefit and cash benefits are to be paid to citizens of other EU countries is another example of how the EU has undermined Denmark's sovereignty in this case sovereignty in relation to social policy. It is therefore only right and proper that Denmark should continue to be able to maintain the principles of social security which the Folketing, independently of the European Union, may find reasonable. New citizens' policy is that only Danish citizens should receive public services. However, as long as it has not been implemented, it is a step forward if Denmark determines which foreigners can receive benefits and by what rules, rather than the EU, decide it. In new citizens we therefore support the formulation by the proposers of a new reservation on welfare. Notwithstanding the provisions of the Treaty, Denmark may maintain its own legislation on who may receive social benefits from the Danish State. Such a reservation we agree will ensure that all decisions on the payment of benefits, allowances, child benefit or other benefits to EU citizens who are in Denmark always have a majority in the Folketing behind them. New citizens can therefore support motion for a resolution No. B 38.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219135602	Thank you, sir. Peter Seier Christensen. No one signed up. Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219135612	Thank you. We are in favour of the European Union in the Liberal Alliance, but we also sometimes believe that it is necessary to protect the European Union from itself when the European Union develops in a way that removes legitimacy or threatens to remove legitimacy from the European project. It is a well-known fact that there are tensions or power struggles in the European Union. During the last parliamentary term, I was the EU rapporteur for my party, and there is always a parliamentarians' congress in the country holding the Presidency. There we see this power struggle in full, because on the one hand we have representatives of the Commission and of the European Parliament with very, very far-reaching ideas, and then we have the national parliamentarians who are shaking their heads and thinking: we cannot deliver on this; this has no legitimacy. And then the fight goes back and forth. We might as well be honest and say that there is this power struggle between the European Parliament, the Commission, on the one hand, the Council of Ministers, on the other hand, that we see it very clearly when, for example, we see it. is about the distribution of refugees, where this matter has been trained for years. That is why we think that this whole problem could be taken a little more seriously in order to avoid a deeper division within the European Union. There is already a division between north and south. There is also a division between East and West, that is, between the Western European countries and the Visegrád countries, and we cannot have this division between the national parliaments on the one hand and some European institutions on the other. A place where I have seen it incredibly clearly, because I have been working on the research area for many years, is in terms of su where it costs 0.5 billion. kr. to pay out sugar to recipients from EU countries and where all parties that normally participate in conciliation in the field of research think it is far too much money, but where we also have to find powerless that the action we must take is proposing as a tailor somewhere. So we would like to see these forces that undermine membership of the European Union taken more seriously. After all, we have had a number of debates here in the Folketing on activism, and it is also activism that keeps bringing us closer and closer to a social union. And that is why we support this proposal because we see it as a means of protecting the European Union from itself and of maintaining support for the internal market and all the excellence we have heard of, but without doing so in a way that completely undermines legitimacy. For example: We have here in Denmark a welfare state which the vast majority of citizens want and which the vast majority of citizens also contribute to, but no one can understand that more and more welfare services have to disappear from Denmark, and no one can understand that we have so little decision-making power on maternity rules and on all kinds of rules, that is to say, that decision-making power disappears. So we know it's hard, but we just want the government to defend the legitimacy of the project by defending the welfare state more stubbornly than they do now. So thank you for putting forward this proposal, which we support. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219135945	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219135947	Thank you. Well, it's a little too bad that Mr. Knox... Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille is out collecting signatures right now and cannot keep up with the debate here. For one of the reasons he gave, for the urge he felt that Denmark should have another political party, was precisely the increase in EU skepticism that he found in the Liberal Alliance. And that's something like sir. Henrik Dahl here today somewhere confirms him in. I would just like to say from the Left that we find it incredibly regrettable that LA has entered that path and believe that there will be a very great risk for Denmark's continued membership of the internal market if we were to have such a welfare reservation. Now it can be said that it does not matter, because three mandates from or to do not make there a majority in favour of the DF's motion for a resolution. However, I think it is really, really a pity that the Liberal Alliance has stepped on that road.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219140048	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219140050	We are not European sceptics, and I am sorry that I have expressed myself so unclearly that it does not appear. We are in favour of the European Union, but the European Union has some self-destructive features built into it, which are already divisive, as I have said, both in a North-South dimension and in an East-West dimension, creating divisions between national parliamentarians and between different institutions. The Council of Ministers is, of course, in general agreement with the national parliamentarians, if we can put it that way, against very, very high-flying ideas from the European Parliament and from the Commission. And some people just have to stop the most lofty and high-flying ideas from the European Parliament and from the Commission and say: we can have a European Union and we can be within the Treaty of Lisbon and there is not one way to solve this properly. This can be done more realistically and more pragmatically than is imagined here. We think this is important in order to save the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219140148	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219140151	That doesn't make any sense. Well, that doesn't make any sense. After all, you do not save the European Union by saying that Denmark will resign from part of the cooperation and say: then you other people will have to mess with it. Well, if sir... Henrik Dahl really thinks that this is so serious... the child benefit part was something that the British, among other things. They were included in their brexite agreement, which had become a reality if they had not voted as they did over in Britain, so it doesn't do any good to say from the Danish side in isolation: then you other people just have to take care of yourselves and mess around. In that case, we must be involved and ensure that the arguments we have for why children's money, for example, should be indexed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219140233	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219140240	But I am simply saying that, as it already is, quite realistically, where the Council of Ministers discreetly opposes many of the crazy ideas that come in the area of refugees, that is the way it is. I think that we can oppose some of the most aviable ideas that come from certain parts of the EU system. After all, there is nothing illegitimate about the fact that there is a power struggle, and that power struggle is already there, and I just do not see why we should not throw our voice a little more strongly in favour of a pragmatic and realistic approach to, for example, the situation. the question of social benefits. It has nothing to do with being opposed to the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219140323	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and we go further in the rapporteur's line, and the next one is the Radical Left's rapporteur, and that is Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Jens Rohde. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219140332	Thank you, sir. President, and thank you for just joining us. 'Cause I think that when mr. Mr Messerschmidt is actually making an effort to bring this debate down to the Parliamentary Chamber, so it is a pity if we are not all a little accountable for our views, and so I would like to take this opportunity to tell you why we in the Radical Left cannot support this proposal in any way, but I would nevertheless like to give Mr Messerschmidt the floor. Morten Messerschmidt is right. And that sounds like a contradiction, but it is not. Because that's quite right when Mr. Morten Messerschmidt says that changing governments that have taken up the tale of welfare tourism that I do not share and say they can do something about it and will do something about it, the people are blinding their eyes. Because that's not gonna happen. Why? Because the rule of law, which is not to discriminate against the migrant worker, is not even a separate EU set of rules, Mr President. Peter Seier Christensen. This is also true for Liechtenstein, for Switzerland and for Norway. It is a widely accepted principle that where you pay your tax, there is where you work. We have a great interest in this in Denmark; that we uphold that principle. I assume that none of the parties in the Folketing are contesting that. Where you pay your tax, you also receive your benefits, because that is what finances it. And that angle, which some parties agree to in the name of populism, that then we are going to index the children's cheque or not pay any benefits at all to people who work here and pay the Danish tax, because they are actually going to be saying to these people that they have to take their whole family here and settle in order not to be discriminated against when they work here and contribute to the Danish society. And that is not usually the story, the story and the wish I hear from the parties who are here advocating discrimination against the migrant worker. Fortunately, we have a strong institutional foundation to prevent such a thing from happening, and that is why the government, whether it is blue, red, yellow or green, will never succeed in going in and doing discrimination against the migrant worker. And fortunately for that, because it is not in our interest either. This will make it extremely difficult to attract labour, and a demand will begin to be made by other countries, those whose citizens then experience discrimination, that we change the tax payment that exists. Because otherwise they're the ones who pay the whole bill. Finally, it would be to the detriment of all Danish workers travelling abroad and commuting abroad if they were not guaranteed a set of rights on an equal footing with all the people who work in the same country in which they work. So when the Foreign Minister says that we are working for a Europe of solidarity, as the Minister said as one of the last sticks, then it is good to hear. But the truth is that in this area you only have solidarity with yourself and yours. In my view, this has nothing to do with solidarity, and that is why we cannot support the work of the government in order to discriminate against the migrant worker or that we should have a reservation on welfare. Because it is going to damage our own interest and it is also damaging the interests of the Community. And the interests of the community are also our interests. That is what solidarity is all about. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219140816	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219140822	Thank you for that, and also thank you to Mr. Jens Rohde for the kind words. I feel quite convinced that if we were to one day be in a situation where the kingdom had a so-called yellow government, such as Mr. Jens Rohde has been working on one of the scenarios, so we'd do something about this, all the time that yellow seems to be associated with my party. Having said that, I would like to say that I do not think that Mr. Jens Rohde's analysis of the international labour market is really in line with reality. For we look back just 1, 5 or 10 years. After all, there are periods where you have had access to fewer social benefits than you have today, simply because decisions have been taken over the last 10 years, especially at the European Court of Justice, which has extended access to benefits. A year ago, for example, it was. It is clear that in Denmark you are entitled to benefit after just one day's work in Denmark. Until that decision, longer periods of residence and work were required in Denmark, but subsequently shorter. So if sir... Jens Rohde's reasoning should be correct, it must mean that there were also no migrant workers in Denmark before that decision was taken. I feel quite convinced that Mr. Jens Rohde will have trouble lifting the burden of proof.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219140940	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219140941	Now I only have one minute to answer that question. But we need to agree on what kind of reality we are discussing. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt loves to blame the European Court of Justice for all the things he opposes. But the truth is that this is a political decision. And it sounds so grotesque to your ears when you hear the question of why you should not have an income in order to be entitled to unemployment benefit in Denmark. In relation to what lies in the motion for a resolution and what lies in that idea, it should be borne in mind that the migrant worker must have earned the right to benefits in his own country. Let's just keep that in mind. And there it is that if you want to attract labour, it is not very clever that you as a company and as a nation are saying to the person concerned: it is fine that you will come here to Denmark and work, but you just need to know that all the rights you have earned in your own country will disappear as soon as you cross the border. That is foolish; it is the worst way to attract labour. Compared to the fact that there are more and more benefits disappearing out of the country, we have actively made some decisions, including in this Parliament and now I am looking at Mr. Henrik Dahl among others. on the su, in 2004 under the then VK government, walking that we would like to attract more students from abroad and that we would like our own students to draw abroad. And it is the decision that we made at the time that is the basis of the situation we have with su today, but we have done so with our eyes open.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219141120	Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219141122	I simply have to say that to Mr Seligman. Jens Rohde isn't true. Jens Rohde Jo) The reason why the cost of EU citizens in the Su account has exploded is the series of decisions made by the European Court of Justice following the Brown ruling. The Brown ruling hugged the Grzelczyk judgment and said that now su and fellowships are generally part of the rules that could be used as a migrant worker, and gradually the requirement has been lowered to how much work should be done, so that today you just have to sell apples in Tivoli or something like that in order to be paid out su. So I think that Mr. Jens Rohde travels with a false story.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219141158	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219141159	I am absolutely not telling you anything false, because I myself helped make that decision in 2004. And I have a relatively good memory, sir. Morten Messerschmidt, just as I know that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt also has a good memory. But I actually know what I've been involved in deciding for myself, after all. And that's why there's no untruth in that story. We did so with full open eyes in 2004 because we thought it was in the interests of the country. And that is why it is as it is in the Su area today.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219141233	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219141237	I understand, sir. Jens Rohde considers it unreasonable that foreigners should come to Denmark and pay taxes, and that, for example, they cannot be paid cash benefits if they lose their jobs. That is why we also want a compulsory insurance scheme to be introduced, which, in turn, provides for a tax credit equivalent to the cost.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219141301	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219141302	There is nothing at all in the European Union to prevent Denmark from introducing, if you like, compulsory insurance schemes. We can just do that. After all, there is always such a discussion about and a picture that the fact that the European Union has finally begun to have a social dimension, so that we will have security for the migrant worker as opposed to today, because we have finally awakened to the European Community and have been guided by that recognition, means that we will then be prevented from creating and organizing our own systems. We don't. There I share the view of the Foreign Minister that we must have fair movement and not just free movement, because with just free movement we inherit each other's accidents. I look forward to the resolution from the New Citizens' Party and then we look at it seriously and then we have to discuss it from there. I cannot promise here that I will support it. But I look at all proposals presented in the Folketing without prejudice.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219141412	Sir. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219141414	I am glad to hear that the Radical Left will take a positive view of this. So we look forward to having a discussion on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219141421	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219141422	I regard that as a statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219141427	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. Jens Rohde and I would like to thank the President and Mr. Morten Messerschmidt). We're gonna have a breakin' here. The Conservative rapporteur has arrived and would like to speak, I understand. We are also responding to this, so we are giving the floor to the Conservative rapporteur, Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219141456	Thank you for the floor, although the Left was kind enough to say hello. But now I could just get back, and then I would like to make my own comments on the road. Of course, this may be a problem and we have seen this for a long time that many Danes do not like so much that as a migrant worker you can come and benefit disproportionately from our unique social welfare benefits. However, the Conservative People's Party certainly does not agree that we should seek to resolve these issues about our particular welfare model by making an EU reservation. It has, of course, been attempted with special agreement with England, which is now unfortunately leaving us as a good friend. We still believe that we must work to create agreements within the framework of the European Union and to meet the challenges we face as a migrant worker, for example. as a student, can come in and get su unlimited during the time you are here and then go back home. In any case, we should not solve those issues by simply starting to nationalise our things, as we have done with Danish-language education, but that is another area. We must try to resolve this within the framework of the European Union. Therefore, we will say no to this proposal from DF.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219141619	Thank you to Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll. And then it's sir. Morten Messerschmidt, this time in the role of rapporteur for the proposers.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219141631	Thank you to the President and thank the rapporteurs for the comments that have been made. Britain is expected to leave the EU in a small month's time. And that happens on top of a little, you might say, messy course, which, contrary to what has happened in Brussels, has happened too openly. You see the goods on the screen, you see how things are developing, and the expectation is that now the British are leaving the EU per year. January 31st. I hope that some of them, at least in this Chamber who have participated in or followed this debate, have had it in their minds. For what is it really doing that the British no longer want to be part of the European Union? Is it because they are opposed to action? It's hard to believe. I guess the British invented free trade before the continent did. Is it because the United Kingdom is opposed to peace and freedom? Some of the slogans that the European Union typically likes to embellish? No, it is probably hard to assume, since the British are precisely those who have guaranteed peace and freedom on the continent when the continent itself has not been able to find out. No, the reason why the British are leaving the European Union is that the European Union is no longer what the British assumed it should be when they said yes. The European Union has become a conglomerate of over-regulation in relation to labour market policy, social policy, immigration policy and a series of other areas where most Britons and probably most Europeans do not really think it is a really good solution. Some Europeans plunge their necks and say: Well, for fear of balance of payments, we should stay. Others choose to embrace everything and forget their homeland and invent a new one and become Europeans from the heart. And yet we are some who think: if the future of peace, freedom and free trade should be on the continent, perhaps it was an idea to listen to the British; then perhaps it was an idea to reflect on whether the EU cooperation we have actually reflects what the people want. And if you engage in such thinking, you will soon see that reforms need to be made. And one of the reforms, which is a completely obvious Columbus egg for us in the Danish People's Party, is that the EU should of course not have powers when it comes to the social policy of the countries. If we look around among the current 28 countries, there are real differences in how one has chosen to set up one's welfare society. That is why it is rather a false argument to say that one must of course be able to earn the right to benefit in one country and then demand payment in another country. How are the quotas in Romania, Bulgaria, Malta, Cyprus and so on?? Is it really reasonable that you can register in an unemployment fund there, pay the contribution, move to Denmark, work 1 day, then get unemployed and then get paid the Danish contribution? Of course it's not. Some call it discrimination if you choose to take the area back to the Folketing. In the Danish People's Party we call it democracy. Because it is the case that if, as the Radical Left, you want to have this completely equal access to benefits for everyone, the half billion citizens who are now in the European Union and therefore have the right to walk as workers, then you can just secure 90 mandates for it in the Parliamentary Chamber. It has to be the case that when you say no to a reservation, it is because you are really worried about whether the electorate will put together a parliament that will then also implement the rules that you want to defend yourself. In other words, it would be preferable for an undemocratic system like the EU to force Denmark to follow the rules that are your own policy than to convince the electorate that it is actually a good policy. Therefore, this is not just about whether or not the benefits and cash benefits are paid to other citizens who should not have the payments. It's about something much more fundamental. It is about the fact that, as managers of the constitution that we have all signed up to, and which lies out here in the Walking Hall, we have a duty that is greater than just ensuring that there is a surplus in the balance of payments. We have a duty to protect a Denmark, not just as a limited liability company, to make profits, but, in fact, as a country of origin, a country in which we in the Folketing have taken on the responsibility of safeguarding the interests of the country, the citizens, for this parliamentary term. And we can only do that if we are also willing to say to an EU system that is assassinating the Constitution, an attack on what the citizens want, that enough is enough for us to demand a reservation. Because we know that reservations work. Denmark is a pioneer country when it comes to reservations. We have taken the lead and, moreover, have given examples of reservations that other countries have wanted to imitate, but of course we have got no. It is therefore completely incomprehensible to me that parties here in the Folketing, who say that they want to stop draining on Danish welfare benefits, do not want to support this proposal. But I am delighted that, last time we dealt with it, only one party, namely the Danish People's Party, supported it, and today I can count three. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219142143	No one has made too brief a comment on Mr Seligman's report. Morten Messerschmidt. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on European Affairs. And if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219142206	The debate is open. I shall give the floor to Mr Seligman to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Anders Kronborg from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219142225	Thank you, Mr President. We need to take care of our plants, and we need to take good care of our plant health. That is why the EU has introduced a new plant health regulation and amended the regulation on official controls. We must, of course, comply with these changes at home in Denmark, and we do so with this bill. Diseases and injuries can affect our plants and go hard on nature. Therefore, we must constantly be vigilant when the climate and the environment around us change and this presents new challenges for the living organisms in nature. That is what the proposal here is about. With the EU regulation and this legislative proposal, prevention efforts will be strengthened. We strengthen control by authorities and we strengthen the fight against so-called harmful organisms. Several types of enterprise are covered by the law. Control is being strengthened and we are simplifying the entire legislation in the plant sector. All in all, this is a sensible legislative proposal that we Social Democrats support, and we will do our bit to ensure that we have a quick and effective reading of the proposal, because we understand that it is a little too late. There are some reasons for this, but we will certainly do our part to ensure that this is dealt with flexibly and effectively. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219142402	No one has signed up for questions and comments, so we have to move on in the rapporteur's line, and that will be with Mr Beazley. Erling Bonnesen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219142416	Thank you. The Left supports this bill and I should like to welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that they are doing the same. The legislative proposal we are discussing here is very much concerned with adapting Danish legislation to the plant health regulation and the control regulation with regard to protection against harmful organisms, as the previous rapporteur has very well explained. There has been a restructuring of the legislation within the EU, where a large number of directives have been brought together within a regulation and others have been completely repealed. It is a large area of many rules, so it is a good thing that there is a clean-up, we can call it a simplification, hopefully. Denmark welcomes the fact that we have common rules in this area, as this helps to make both imports and exports easier, but it is important that the rules do not become a disproportionate burden for business; on the contrary, we should also be able to see some simplifications. In addition, the bill will bring together plant and seed regulation in one plant law. In Denmark, over the last 100 years, we have been at the forefront of the work to ensure the processing of seeds and to ensure a high quality both nationally and internationally, and in fact, I can say, exports have reached a total of over 2 billion. kr. a year. So it is a success that we can build on to a great extent. I often think about it when I see football on the screen with championships, both European and world championships, where we sometimes join the field with our players, but where we are often on the screen at lots of the other games, because there are plenty of Danish grass on the lawns around. So we can also welcome that in connection with this. Finally, I would like to say that the legislation in the food sector is quite comprehensive, and it is therefore gratifying that the government is continuing the work on the legislative compass that was set in motion. In the Left, we are in favour of the bill, and I should also like to welcome that from the Conservative People's Party and say that they are. We have a simple question that we will just deal with between the first and second readings, and this is about the fact that we can see a fee increase, etc. So let us take a closer look at what covers. Otherwise, we will support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219142640	Thank you, sir. Erling Bonnesen. No one has asked for the floor. Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt on behalf of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219142647	Thank you, President. As a starting point, regulation is a good idea, and when you get the opportunity to implement the latest regulation against harmful organisms, then you can beat two flies with a spanking, and we in the Danish People's Party see no reason to oppose it. Now we have just had a heated debate about the European Union, and it is not the case that because you see problems with the European Union, everything in the European Union is a problem. Here, where we are actually dealing with part of the internal market, which was also at the heart of the debate before, namely the export of agricultural products, it makes sense that we have common rules. This does not lead to any feature of public services; in other words, it only leads to us being able to act in a sensible and proper way. So from the point of view of the matter, the Minister can count on the support of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219142749	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the rapporteur by the Radicals, Mrs Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219142755	Thank you. There is, of course, this type of bill, and perhaps I can say that to our guests today, where there are not so much political fights, one can say that there are certainly no fights in them, because it is quite right, as the Danish People's Party rapporteur Mr. Morten Messerschmidt has said that this is, of course, partly a simplification of existing Danish legislation and partly the implementation of EU legislation. So this is the kind of thing that we do not get so upset about here in the Folketing and that we can, fortunately, adopt in good order. In any case, it should not be us who cause anxiety or trouble or noise, and so I can just say that we also support the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219142831	Thank you. We go further in the rapporteur's line, and the next person to be on the platform is the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219142846	Thank you. When dealing with draft legislation, which is 105 pages, you immediately look for whether there are any good consultation answers, perhaps some good consultation answers from some of your friends, and here you looked in vain because there were two consultation answers: one from Agriculture & Food, which was rather thin, and then one that more related to how to handle some data. This is disappointingly disappointing, but hopefully it indicates that there is not so much resistance to this, even if you have held a hearing over a long summer holiday. We have to note for the time being that this is a merger of a number of laws, and I note that it seems as if the Minister is empowered to do a great many things, and it might actually be interesting to know whether this piece of legislation means more power being given to the Minister. I think this is an aspect we should be aware of, namely that we are not making legislation where more and more power goes to a minister, but that parts of civil society are involved in these processes. If the bill contains only this compilation, I think we should settle for it, but when you talk about the plant pests, yes, that is, when we are dealing with cultural plants, there is a lot of knowledge that has been lost. There is a mistake in many ways, and it has to be said that what the ecologists have shown, in other words that agriculture can be operated without using herbicides and pesticides, and that with a good crop rotation and a sensible operation, it is worth being inspired by an agriculture that grows without pesticides. I have noted that there are farmers who practice reducing soil treatment and who are also working to come up with other solutions that minimise the problems that may exist, with fungi and insects that can eat the crops they are trying to grow. I have also noted that Agriculture & Food is concerned about the adequacy of handling the problem of the flying seas, and it has to be said that there are two months in the winter when there may be a gap, because there is no strict legislation for it, but the current legislation must probably apply until a new law is adopted. So I think that those who are organised in Agriculture & Food can sleep safely here for the next few months, even though the new law is not in place. With these comments, Enhedslisten can agree to the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219143118	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the alternative, and that is Mrs Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219143127	Thank you. In the alternative, we support the proposal because the aim is to bring together a lot of legislation in an extremely complex area in a legal compass and to incorporate EU legislation into Danish law. SF sends its regards and they also support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219143145	Thank you. It was short and precise. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219143155	Thank you. Plants are also a kind of people, and they need to be well, so that's why this is a good bill. Rule simplification is also a positive thing, so we support that too. This is a super legislative proposal that we support, and I should like to welcome from New Citizens and say that they also support it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219143217	You're welcome. And then we have the Minister for Food, Fisheries and Gender Equality, who will round the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219143238	I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their support for the bill. After all, this is a legislative proposal in which we have to adapt the legislation to two new EU regulations in the field of plant health and provide a legal basis for the other existing seed and plant controls in Denmark. Our phytosanitary efforts must, of course, ensure against the introduction and spread of serious harmful organisms, which could cause great damage to our plant breeding, to our forests, to nature and to our landscape and also to our cultural values. And a few classic examples of what also affected Denmark were the consequences of the elm disease in its time and the potato disease ring rot. Climate change could increase our damage if climate change favours living conditions for new harmful organisms. And that is another argument for us to keep a close eye on the plant health situation and also to prevent new escalating problems. After all, the United Nations has just appointed 2020 as the International Plant Health Year under the slogan "Protecting Plants, Protecting Life" and it is playing well with the introduction of the new EU Plant Health Code set and also our new Danish law. The plant health year should help to focus globally on the fact that plants are the basis of life and also our food production, and it is important to avoid spreading serious harmful organisms with international trade and also our travel activity. So the legislative proposal is, after all, an adaptation of Danish plant health legislation in accordance with the EU's new regulation and also the EU's amended regulation on official controls. At the same time, we are simplifying legislation in the plant sector, bringing together the rules on the production and sale of plants with the rules on plant health and also including undesirable native plant species, such as. Flying orchards. The new regulations will mean that the authorities in Denmark, and this is the Danish Agricultural Authority, will have to have a stronger focus on preventing and combating the spread of serious harmful organisms, and this will mean a number of additional tasks for the Agricultural Authority in relation to increased investigations, a reinforced emergency equipment, screening for new threats, enhanced information efforts and controls, including increased import controls for plants and plant products from third countries. Denmark has a large export of plants, including seeds, to countries both within the EU and outside, and a high level of protection is therefore of great importance for us to be able to maintain that export, as a possible outbreak of a harmful organism may have major consequences for the agricultural, horticultural and forestry industries, and thus, of course, Danish exports and also Danish jobs. The new regulation here also means that several types of business are subject to the law, and here, for example, plant wholesalers and certain Internet shops with e-commerce to private customers. The proposal proposes to follow normal practice in this area so that the current Danish fee financing of the area is extended to these new types of business and that fees should also finance the new risk-based controls, including follow-up checks on seed potatoes. In addition, expenditure may be incurred by the profession if they wish to set up new inspection centres at border inspection posts. However, it is an option that is given to the profession by means of the bill, and not a requirement. And it is proposed to introduce fee financing for the follow-up control of the flying seas, and it is only necessary when an infected area has not been combated, as is the duty to do. And that's what we're doing, because it's easy for the ski slopes to spread, and that's why we're hitting the neighbor's fields. And by introducing this fee, the Department of Agriculture can strengthen control of flying seas and ensure that infected areas are combated effectively. I would like to say that the legislative proposal is late and therefore the law cannot enter into force on the date of application of the regulation, 14 December 2019. It is expected to enter into force on 1 February 2020. The delay in the law will, according to the Agricultural Authority's assessment, have the consequences that the administration and enforcement of plant health rules during the period from 14 December to 1 February 2020 will have to be carried out on a substantive basis with direct legal basis in the plant health regulation and the control regulation. The other seed and plant controls under the EU market rules will continue to be carried out until 2022 on the basis of the current law on seeds, potatoes and plants. And that means that control activities, including import controls, can continue unaffected by it. However, there will be no possibility of carrying out forced checks on private property without a court order, imposing coercive measures, similar to outbreaks of harmful organisms, imposing penalties and charging fees for those controls, and export activities also continue unaffected. So with this bill and with the unanimous support of the Danish Parliament, I understand, and I thank you for that, we can strengthen our efforts for healthy plants and ensure a high level of protection for the benefit of nature, food safety and Danish plant production and thus the significant Danish export of plants. And I hope that the committee during the committee's reading will help with a speedy process in order to have the legislative proposal dealt with. Once again, I shall be the first to regret this delay, but as I have said, the draft law is meant to come into force on 1 February, and I look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219143928	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief comments, so as no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191219143945	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 20 December 2019 at 12.00 pm. 9:00 a.m. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
