ParlaMint-DK_20190221100053	The meeting is open. The Committee on the Environment and Food has presented: Report on the implementation by the Minister for Fisheries and Equal Opportunities of a model for future mussel and oyster fishing in Limfjorden. 7. The report will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221100120	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221100141	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 74 by Pernille Bendixen (DF), Anni Matthiesen (V), May-May-Britten Kattrup (LA) and Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel (KF). The vote is over. in favour of 54 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 52 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 74 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 73 by Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil (S), Peder Hvelplund (EL), Pernille Schnoor (ALT), Andreas Steenberg (RV) and Trine Torp (SF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221100302	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 75 by Susanne Eilersen (DF), Carsten Kissmeyer (V), Villum Christensen (LA), Roger Courage Matthisen (ALT), Rasmus Helveg Petersen (RV) and Anders Johansson (KF). The vote is over. In favour of 66 (DF, V, LA, ALT, RV and KF), against 41 (S, EL and SF), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 75 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 76 by Kaare Dybvad (S), Eva Flyvholm (EL) and Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221100425	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221100440	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 108 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221100510	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221100527	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 81 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 18 (EL, RV and SF), abstention 6 (ALT). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221100556	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221100612	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 108 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221100643	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221100700	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 108 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221100733	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221100746	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 59 (S, V, LA and KF) voted against 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstained 23 (DF). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221100821	No amendments have been tabled. Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221100841	Thank you. L 140, which we are about to vote on, the Paradigm Change Act, is a historic disaster for Denmark, which is the country that we traditionally regard as a humanist great power in international politics, as a country that respects and respects and values the international conventions we have signed and as a country that welcomes new people, refugees, with dignity, with open arms and of course also with demands, but which at the same time respects the fact that there are people in the world who are in difficulties and who we have a responsibility to help. I would like to mention some of the elements of this bill that all those who are about to vote in favour of this bill support. Because that's the way it is. When you vote green for a bill, you support the entire bill. Among other things: If we vote green in the near future, we will be supporting the inclusion of quota refugees as an element of the bill; quota refugees will be included among the people who will now be genuinely aware of the future and whose residence permit we will be devoting a great deal of resources to involving them. If you read the protocols of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, the UNHCR, which deals with quota refugees, you will see that it says that countries must work for sustainable solutions, that is, long-term solutions for quota refugees when they are taken into their country. It simply cannot be reconciled with going out and saying that quota refugees are an element of the refugees here in Denmark whose residence permit we want to include as quickly as we can get to it at all. You're gonna vote yes to that if you press yes to this bill. You will also vote in favour of reducing your integration benefit by DKK 2,000. a month for some people after they've been here for three years. I do not know if anyone has followed, but recently in Information there was a series of articles on the consequences of the present integration benefit that already exist in families. It's gonna be $2,000. less every month for these families... 2,000 kr. This means that we are potentially unable to comply with the Constitution, which says that all people in Denmark must actually have a basis for living and living, which means that they can maintain just a minimum standard of life. We shall vote in favour of this. We shall also vote in favour of taking the word 'integration' out of everything about refugee policy in Denmark. All of a sudden we do not want to integrate any more, we want to send people home immediately, we have no intention of seeing that the refugees who come to our country can potentially in the long term be progressive fellow citizens who can contribute fruitfully to Denmark and make Denmark richer in all possible areas, both economically and culturally. The people who vote in favour of this bill will also support it. We do not like that word anymore, we would rather not have it in our legislation. It will also be supported that the Danish authorities, among other things. Danish employees, who sit on the Foreigners' Board, must move forward according to a practice which states that they must go as far as they can, in order to include a residence permit as long as it is not contrary to Denmark's international obligations. In other words, we must go to the edge of the conventions. Despite the fact that the Institute for Human Rights has been out to say in their hearing answer, Danish employees on our Foreigners' Board must sit and manage this, that it is not possible to do so, because there is no legal room for the employees to make such decisions. So Danish employees in our agencies must sit and make some decisions on the basis of an estimate that there is no legal room or legitimacy to be able to make. I would hate to be the Danish employee who should sit and decide to withdraw a residence permit from a refugee who has been granted a temporary residence permit on the basis of my own personal judgement or whatever. We are going to have a practice in which we are going to take decisions to withdraw temporary residence permits, which are being transformed by the Court of Human Rights, and Denmark is going to change its practice again. That's what's gonna happen with this bill. So, the Left has historically had an iconic prime minister, Poul Hartling, who was a refugee commissioner until 1985. We should be proud of this in our government-led party, the Left, instead of now going out and discrediting the work that he did with such great pride and that actually gave the Nobel Peace Prize to the High Commissioner for Refugees in 1981 because, with Poul Hartling in the lead, they were in fact in charge of the resettlement of over a million Indochinese refugees. That's the story we're taking with us in Denmark, and it's the story that's gonna suffer a violent crack in a minute when green is voted for this bill. By the way, there are also 8 000 employees who are leaving, as we heard a few days ago when the industry was out to say: who is going to do our jobs? Who is going to take care of those jobs instead of those employees who are about to leave because you are going out and putting a huge amount of effort into including some residence permits from employees who are actually helping our welfare community keep the wheels running? Because that's the way it is. I don't know if you've read it in Everything, but today in Everything, it actually says how you're gonna spend a lot of money on this bill. Among other things: I am now reading what is in Altingen today, a removal counsellor in the Ministry, who will in particular find refugees on humanitarian grounds. So this broadcast counselor has to go in and specially look for the refugees we've gone to Denmark for a humanitarian stay. We all know that when you get a humanitarian stay, it is not because there are easy reasons for it; then what you can be personally persecuted for in your home country is actually quite serious. However, this worker simply has to find refugees on humanitarian grounds in order to try to do everything possible to withdraw their residence permit. I just want to end by telling you about Ghassan Rahmi. Ghassan Rahmi is from Syria and he has been granted a 5-year residence permit in Denmark in 2004 pursuant to Section 7 of the Aliens Act. 1, which includes: is the case with persons who are personally persecuted. Ghassan Rahmi has since his arrival in Denmark five years ago learned Danish, he works as the saniteur's chairman, and he has engaged in local association work, among other things. in 2017, he was a candidate for the Radical Left for the municipal elections in Holstebro Municipality. He's one of those people who might be sent home with this bill. I am just saying that because we have a very concrete idea of what it is actually doing. So I would just like to ask you to think very carefully before you press the green button. In particular, I would like to call on the Social Democratic Party, which has been faltering in relation to this bill, to think twice about it. The Social Democrats' website says, and I quote, that each individual must be guaranteed freedom and security to exploit his or her abilities and to realize his or her dreams. All people, regardless of their social, religious or ethnic background, must be guaranteed the right and opportunities to live and be active citizens. If the Social Democrats really mean that, then I hope they will vote red or at least yellow for this bill, because it is simply not compatible with what is in the draft law. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221101706	Thank you. There are just a few brief comments. Sir. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221101711	Thank you. I think everyone who votes yes thinks very well. There is a massive majority in the Folketing that wants a paradigm shift. There is also a massive majority of the population who want a shift. And this is probably due to the fact that if the population had known 30 years ago, for example. If they had known that it would have meant higher crime, parallel societies, that you could not recognise anywhere in the country anymore, then there would have been no popular support to pursue the policy pursued at that time. And that's what we're gonna take care of. There are plenty of refugees who are doing very well in Denmark, and that is great, but there are also massive problems, and the massive problems can only be solved if the influx of these people is limited and people are moving home, which, incidentally, has always been the intention of the refugee system we now have.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221101816	Thank you. Let me just say that the 'A', the 'Vote', is being turned off, so if you leave the Chamber, please do so quietly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221101827	Thank you. Of course, there are problems in our society. I think we all agree on that, but if you look at the government's own integration barometer, it only goes one way, and it is forward. That is true: if you look at the government's own integration barometer, things are moving forward, among other things. with training and with work. The government should then pat itself on the shoulder for having been a part of that, for it has progressed during the reign that has taken place now. It has also progressed as the Social Democracy sat in government during the last period. So thank you for that, I just want to say. So when you come to Denmark, integrate, get a job, are an active citizen, support yourself, why on earth should you not be allowed to be part of our society?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221101912	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221101913	Well, it's true that things are going better, and we really appreciate that. There is progress in terms of employment. This is due, among other things, to: some of the policies that have been implemented and where, I think, the alternative has voted against most of it, but now we are getting so praised that it works, and we are so grateful for that. I just think that the alternative is very one-eyed here, because the reality is that if the Danish population had known 30 years ago what the consequences would be of massive immigration, there would have been no support for it. And that's what's gonna happen now. We want people to be integrated while they're here. Of course, if you're a fugitive, you have to go home. And that has been the purpose of the whole refugee system all along. So this is a normalization. That's what it is, and that's good.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221102009	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221102010	But the fundamental difference between us and the Liberal Alliance, and certainly all the others who vote in favour of this bill today, is precisely about the fact that if you are a refugee and come to Denmark and have lived here for a number of years, that is because the conflicts in their home countries are long-lasting; that is what this is all about, because an average armed conflict lasts for 15 years, then you reach a point where you have been so integrated into Denmark, you contribute to society, you pay to the tax money, your children go to the Danish folk school that you are a positive element in the Danish society. And it is they that the people who are voting in favour of this bill today do not want in our country, and that is what the fundamental difference is. Because we want them. We welcome all the refugees who will be integrated into Denmark and who will become active citizens. They are the ones that the people who vote yes in a moment do not want.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221102100	Then it's mr. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy. And it's gonna have to be a little quieter.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221102102	First of all, I would like to thank the Alternative's rapporteur for reading out the Social Democrats' policy from the platform. It is always good that we get some attention. I now think that when we vote green in the near future, it is entirely in line with what the Alternative's rapporteur is reading from the platform, and I think that part of the crisis surrounding this bill is also due to the fact that there are a lot of misunderstandings and also some direct falsehoods as to what the content of it is. For example: I can now hear Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier answer Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, that people who have been here for 15 years and have become an active part of society and contribute, we do not want. It is quite well known that assessments are being carried out on whether refugees have acquired links with Denmark before the withdrawal of the residence permit. And a person such as the one mentioned by the rapporteur from the platform will not, of course, have his residence permit withdrawn, either with the existing rules or with those we are about to adopt. However, what I would like to ask the rapporteur is whether the rapporteur cannot confirm what is on page 36 of the draft law's comments, namely that refugees will continue to be met by an integration policy. It says that the content of the integration programme will remain unchanged and focus primarily on employment and Danish education. So it is wrong, when we hear in the media and from several rapporteurs from the other opposition, that integration is now cancelled and replaced by the fact that there is only one thing that applies: people have to go home. It is still the case that there is an ambition in the official Danish policy that people should be in employment and learn Danish and the children should go to school, just as it is already today, and just as it will be in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221102234	Thank you. And it will be a long debate, I think, so we must keep to the speaking time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221102238	Yeah. I can only confirm what the bill says. It would be strange if I didn't confirm what the bill says. What I arrest and why I also arrest the Social Democratic Party specifically for that is among other things. the integration service element. Does the Social Democratic Party really support the reduction of the integration benefit by DKK 2 000?? Because that is what you do when you vote green for a bill; then you support the whole bill. Does the Social Democratic Party really support the fact that quota refugees are included in this scheme? I have never really received an answer to that, despite the fact that I have tried to ask some times. Quota refugees, of course, we have committed ourselves to working through the UN for sustainable solutions. Should a special employee go out to cherypicke a lot of refugees in order to be able to send them home as soon as possible, including those who have a humanitarian stay? Does the Social Democratic Party really support that?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221102325	Here you go, sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221102326	Firstly, social democracy does not support the reduction of integration benefits. This was also reflected in the vote on Tuesday. Secondly, it is already the case today that quota refugees are granted a temporary residence permit, and it can also be included today. There are even current cases of quota refugees, where it is assessed whether they should be involved, which is on their way to the Refugee Board. It's nothing new. What we in the Social Democratic Party are saying is that this is why I took the floor and that is why a rumor is being spread, an untruth that integration is being cancelled. So I would ask the rapporteur not to ignore and reply very precisely to whether the rapporteur can confirm that I think would be beneficial to the public debate that it will continue to be the case that refugees who come here will have to work and learn Danish.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221102411	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221102415	I can only confirm everything in writing in the draft law, including that the word integration is being removed in many places, compared to where it stands today. And then you'll have to be a little blind if you don't want to acknowledge that it has a concrete impact on what kind of signals we send out to the new Danes who are coming, namely: No, we don't want you to be integrated, because we don't use the word integration anymore, now it's called self-supporting and repatriation services. Well, then, it screams to heaven, how many signals we send in the head of the refugees who come to Denmark that we do not want them. So I completely disagree that we are maintaining integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221102449	Speaking time must be respected, and I must therefore insist very strongly on this at the beginning of this debate, and that applies to everyone, not just to the rapporteur. Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Dansk Folkeparti, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221102458	Thank you. Yes, I really wanted to give the rapporteur a little longer speaking time for that excellent review of all the achievements of the Danish People's Party which lies in this proposal. But I don't think that's gonna happen. I just have to say to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier that the national disaster, which she believes this bill is an expression of, is not. The national disaster occurred in 1983 when a very large majority of this Parliament decided to implement an alien law which fundamentally changed the composition of the population of this country and it has been in a negative direction. This is an attempt to do away with it, and unlike Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, there are some of us in this Chamber who believe that you do not necessarily become Danish because you pay taxes or know the Danish language, just as we do not become English by being able to speak English. That is why I have to ask Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier: is it not Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier's view that when you come here and look for shelter because you are persecuted, you also have an obligation to go home when you are no longer persecuted?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221102603	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221102605	What changes the composition of a country is, after all, partly the legislation of that country. I am happy to admit that, and there may be a lot of problems with the old law that was made in 1983. But what changes the composition of a country is primarily the surrounding society, that is, the international community, of which we as a country are part. We cannot control what is happening in the world unless we shut ourselves down, and I fully agree that this is the greatest wish of the Danish People's Party. It's not our wish. In fact, we still want to be a major international power in Denmark. Yes, that means that we change the composition of our country, and we are happy to do so. Refugees must return home in so far as they have not reached that level, you can say integration in Denmark, where they can obtain a residence permit. After all, there are plenty of already strict rules today for obtaining a residence permit. We actually wanted to relax a little, but we want so much that people who can and will Denmark can stay here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221102656	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221102657	We are changing the demography in Denmark, and we are happy to do so. That is what Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier said. I am so glad that it is not the alternative that has an impact on the policy being implemented here, because the biggest national disaster one can possibly work to bring about in this thing is consciously changing the demographics of this country. I am proud that Denmark today is the country, apart from Bulgaria, that says yes to the least refugees. That's amazing. This is a great day, it is a day of joy, and I am sorry that Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier takes the view that she wants to change the demography in Denmark. I do not want to do that, and fortunately a majority in this Parliament will not.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221102738	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221102739	No, I agree that a majority in the Folketing will not, at least now, and we are working hard to do that. After all, we may disagree on what is our biggest national disaster. I'm pointing to this bill as a national disaster. I can also point to DF's immigration policy as a minor disaster for our historical, one might say, importance as Danish great power, which actually turns out to the world instead of closing itself as such as a national conservative small state. We just disagree. We just have to make that clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221102805	Sir. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221102807	I must also say that when the Alternative is out so strongly and criticises this law, it has to be because it is good and right, and that is the way it is. But I think there is something completely artificial in this debate. I agree with Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth in that it was a national disaster of dimensions that the Aliens Act came in 1983 and opened the floodgates and borders of mass immigration which we saw the result of today. I just have to ask, isn't it a prerequisite when you're a fugitive and you come to the country?The Danes take care of these refugees, pay expenses and everything else... that you return home, of course, when there's peace in your own homeland? I'd say it's a matter of course. When has it become a punishment to come home to your own country? Who will build Syria if it is not the Syrians themselves? Why is someone up here so privileged that they never have to go home while people in the neighborhood are now starting to return home?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221102922	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221102923	It depends on how long you've been here and how long you can say you've been in the process of integration in Denmark. But that's where we disagree. No, it's not a matter of course. If you come to Denmark, you get a job, you support yourself, and perhaps you build up a family, why is it not as much a matter of course that you should be allowed to apply to stay in Denmark and live your life in Denmark because you actually contribute to our society? That's where we disagree. We do not think it is a matter of course that those who come up here as refugees always have to return home. For it may indeed be that they have built up a life that benefits them, but also the rest of us as a society.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221102958	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221102959	I do not really see how it benefits our society that non-western immigration costs 36 billion tax dollars, which the Danes go to work to pay. In fact, it is the Danes who pool into this feast, and then the rapporteur stands fresh and cowardly and says it's a win. Of course it is not, and I would like to say that I stand by the fact that if you are a fugitive and come from a country, you have to return home. That is the whole prerequisite: home to your own country, home to your own culture, home to people who speak the same language, home to people who think like yourself. What is so terrible about saying that it is a matter of course? What is introduced with the paradigm shift is that repatriation is a matter of course. This is the starting point for being a refugee, that is to say, being sent home when there is peace and no danger, and now people are returning from the vicinity. Then I think we could start sending home the people, the Syrians who are here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221103100	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221103101	It could be that one had built up a life in Denmark, it could be that one had had children who attend the Danish primary school and who only lived in Denmark and grew up in Denmark. It could be that it had an impact on unity, the family and the individual. One could just imagine that it was oneself whose children had never lived anywhere else. It could be that it had a meaning, and let's just keep things separate. Of course, it costs when we take refugees to the country. Of course it does. To the extent that they are to stay in Denmark, we fully agree that they must be self-supporting.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221103135	Thank you. Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221103136	Thank you. I was able to understand the rapporteur's speech and the subsequent reply to Mr Tugendhat's question. Joachim B. Olsen, the rapporteur considered these refugees to be a kind of resource person who really contributed to society. This is wrong on all objective criteria; it is simply not true, but it is the rapporteur's view of things. If these people are really such great resources, why should they live in one of the most privileged societies in the world, one of the most prosperous societies in the world, instead of contributing to the construction of, for example, Somalia, Eritrea or Syria where people desperately need people who are willing to make an effort to get those countries back on their feet? Why is it that we should keep the people in Denmark instead of sending them home to help their countrymen rebuild the countries that desperately need to be rebuilt?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221103225	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221103226	As part of the international community, we must also help to rebuild those countries that desperately need to be rebuilt. I do not think we can pass that responsibility on to the refugees who are going back home alone. But, of course, those who want to return home to rebuild their country should not be held back. It's not about keeping It's just about having some people like the one I mentioned as an example, who have come here and who have lived here for many years and have a job. Should we go out to cherypicke the people and say: No, you are actually well integrated, and you are working, and you pay to the Danish Treasury, and you are even put up for a Danish party, but no, we would rather send you home because... What? Why? What is the argument behind this? Is it because we don't like having refugees? You're contributing to our society. That's the point. So, of course, people must be allowed to go home and rebuild their country if they want to, but if they have a story where they have actually become so integrated into Danish society that it makes sense both for them and for us, then we simply do not understand why we are going to make such a bill here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221103326	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221103327	It is funny, because now the rapporteur again talks about the fact that if you have integrated, if you have taken an education, then you have to stay in Denmark, but all those who have then chosen not you should then be sent back. How is it ever going to help countries such as Syria, Somalia and Eritrea that all those who can't do anything think the alternative is good for ships to return to these countries, but all those who have then evolved into something should surely stay in Denmark? How will it ever help to develop and build these countries? Where is solidarity in the alternative with the countries most in need of these citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221103403	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221103404	I can answer that because solidarity lies in the fact that we want to increase development aid and actually double it. The Danish People's Party can only agree with this, because then we have a common desire for solidarity to help build the countries of the world that need to be built up. So it's very easy. We can, of course, table it as a motion for a resolution and then the DF can vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221103424	Thank you. Then no one else has any comments and we go further in the rapporteur's line. Sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221103435	Thank you for the floor. Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier said that Denmark is a major humanitarian power. If you put in it that Denmark should just accept and that we should not send anyone out, then Denmark is no longer a major humanitarian power. Well, we're just a little country trying to take care of ourselves, and that's okay. You can do that. You could actually say that in here in the house it is our duty to do so. The draft law, which we are dealing with today, makes an important change in Danish asylum and immigration policy, so that in future residence for refugees is granted temporarily, with a view to their return to their countries of origin. We go from the integration of refugees to the repatriation of refugees. This is being told to refugees immediately upon arrival in Denmark, and this is reflected in their temporary residence permit in the fact that in future the benefit is called the return grant, and in the fact that there is no longer a permanent residence, but only a temporary residence. The benefits are also reduced, and then we will place less emphasis on the link with Denmark and more emphasis on whether the refugees in question are related to the country of origin in relation to the authorities' assessment of individual cases. It is just some of the changes that result from the paradigm shift. Although over the years the Danish People's Party has had a dampening effect on the overall influx, and although we have had border controls and are also exhibiting a number of criminal aliens, immigration remains a disaster for our community, for Denmark. That is why it is necessary to continue the work, and that is why we need a new return policy. And that's what we're getting today. The report states that the parties behind the financial law agreement assume that the possibilities offered by the draft law will be exploited when assessing the possibility of refusing the extension or withdrawal of a residence permit. And that is an important signal that the Danish Parliament is sending out today by adopting the bill and with the relevant report contribution. The report also shows that the parties behind the Financial Law Agreement will continue to follow developments in this area in order to assess the need for further adjustments and tightenings. This is also, in the view of the Danish People's Party, an important political signal. I can already tell you that we consider that there is a need for further work on new measures, adjustments and austerity. In other words, we have a very good legislative proposal, but work continues. Today, however, we in the Danish People's Party welcome the fact that with Bill No. L 140, which hopefully will be adopted shortly, will have a completely new return policy in Denmark. We believe that this is very much something that we need. When people come here, they need to be clearly informed that they will eventually have to return to their home countries. This is what we are now beginning to set up in order to work towards. They'll know. People in the municipalities, in the ministries, in the governments will now know that this is the new line in Denmark's asylum policy. And it's incredibly valuable. Thank you for the floor and thank you to the governing parties for a good deal. It's good for Denmark. We believe that in the Danish People's Party. That's it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221103735	Thank you. Sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221103737	Thank you. Well, the Danish People's Party is happy with this so-called paradigm shift, and this, of course, means, as often happens, some very violent deterioration for the people who have come here after having been on the run. But Enhedslisten and Dansk Folkeparti will hardly agree on it. After all, there has been a discussion about how far this is actually going to go, and I would like to ask a few questions about that. Sir. Mattias Tesfaye did a little bit earlier during the debate with Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier in pointing out that the integration programmes will pass and that, in a sense, the same thing is still going to be the primary purpose of integrating refugees into Denmark, and that this amendment of the law will not have such far-reaching consequences in terms of how it is done today. It might be interesting to hear, even for those who sit and follow at home, whether this is a view shared by the Danish People's Party rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221103838	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221103839	No, this will have a meaning, and it will also have a great significance. It is not the case that all integration projects are now being closed with this bill, but now we are starting to abolish the rate pool, so it may be that many of the integration projects that are running around are being abolished. This is a shift from focusing on integration to focusing on repatriation, and I think that is incredibly important to maintain. Of course there are some things that go on, that is clear, but it may well be that at a later stage we can get something done about it. This is a clear step in the direction we want from the Danish People's Party, and then from the Social Democrats or from other parties there is a need for some other signals to be sent out, they have to change.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221103923	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221103925	It's just to make it quite clear: this proposal, which Mr. Mattias Tesfaye and the Social Democrats are voting in favour today, does the rapporteur see as a showdown of the focus on integration that has been so far, so that we should get away from it? And the rapporteur sees this as taking a significant step towards people no longer becoming our neighbours and our colleagues; they must be kept as far away from society as possible so that they can smoke back again? This is what this bill brings about, which the Socialists have then agreed to?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221103958	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221103959	You can get a job. By the way, not many people with refugee backgrounds are at work, so I have never quite understood that discussion, but there is nothing in this that forbids them to take a job. The point is that even if they take a job, this bill will still make it significantly easier to withdraw their residence permit. So the focus goes from integration to their return.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221104019	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221104022	I think there are a lot of people out there thinking: what kind of society will we have in 10 to 20 years' time if the conflict in Syria is not over, which, in fact, is not so much a sign of it? These are people who will live here for decades, perhaps even for generations, but who will find it difficult to get a job that will find it hard to learn Danish, who will only be offered temporary housing, and whose children will grow up in poverty, because Martin Henriksen and the Danish People's Party will reduce benefits so far that they cannot afford insurance, birthdays or leisure activities. So we will have a group of people in our society who will live completely isolated from the rest of us who may not know the language, who will never really get an education that gets worse than everyone else. What does it mean for our common society when those people are to live among us but are not to be part of the community?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221104120	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221104122	Well, they live in isolation today. That is, of course, the consequence of the policy, indeed, basically of the alien legislation adopted in 1983. And even though there have been times when the Danish People's Party has had influence and when we have made sure that fewer people have come to Denmark, it is still the case that when the Red Parties have had power, more have arrived. So the pot has always been put in, and it has, of course, had the consequence that more and more people are actually living in isolation from the rest of society. That is what we want to do about here, by sending some of them home, which is actually so this will have a positive effect on the sense of community in Danish society; I am absolutely convinced of that. As far as Syria is concerned, there has been a report from the Foreign Affairs Agency today which shows that there are areas in Syria where there is an improvement in the security situation, and that is something which is also drawing on the fact that at some point we can start sending Syrians home. And, of course, we do.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221104214	Here you go, Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221104216	It is simply a mysterious planet one lives on when one can say that it should not have an impact on our community that the people who come here, fleeing war and terror, do not learn the Danish language, do not get a job, that their children grow up in poverty and cannot go to football with Danish children, so never get to meet Danish children and become a proper part of that everyday life. I find it hard to understand that it would be an improvement in our community. I think sir... Martin Henriksen just has to explain it, just one more time, because the reality is that the people who come here will very much get jobs and learn Danish and make a really big attempt. That, sir. Martin Henriksen says they can't be here, so they can't be here, but they can't be here. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221104307	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221104309	Well, I just think that basically there are different perceptions of what the Danish community like involves. In Enhedslisten it seems that everyone who sets foot on Danish soil can be part of the Danish community, or that they almost per. Automatically, I have to understand, isn't that how it works. Because if that were the case, we didn't have integration problems today; then we didn't have ghettos today; then these people would have become part of the Danish society. They had been assimilated, they had become Danes. But they're not, they're Syrians. If you come from Syria, you're Syrian. I hope that is not such a big news for Enhedslisten's political rapporteur, but that is actually how it is. Then we just make sure that when people have the opportunity to do so, they return to Syria and that's the new thing compared to today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221104351	Thank you. Sir. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221104353	I simply have to take the floor, because I believe that the debate that is taking place here is really extremely damaging to a lot of people living in this country and perhaps following this debate and becoming insecure about what rules we are adopting. And I can understand them. Because if they listen to what is being said here, then can I understand that right now I have received an email from someone who writes: I have been here for decades, am I really going home to my parents' homeland? You can listen to what is being said, for example. by Mrs Pernille Skipper, in relation to people who have been here for decades, for generations. What kind of insecurity is it to create? Sir. Pelle Dragsted asks: Should they not be our neighbours and our colleagues? It is clear from the bill that when you come down to the municipality, you have to continue in employment and learn Danish. What, then, is the insecurity of creating, Mrs Pernille Skipper, that one should not learn the Danish language? It is, of course, part of the policy we will be faced with in the future that we must of course learn our language. The same goes for the children. Thousands of people are spreading insecurity in this country, and I don't think you can be that familiar. I think you should consider whether it is really beneficial for integration and for the way we meet each other in this society that there are rumours that people who have been here for generations are covered by this bill. It's crazy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221104510	Thank you. The rapporteur is up here. Will the rapporteur answer that?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221104512	Well, I'm just following with interest in the discussion between Social Democracy and the Enhedslisten, and I urge you to continue that discussion so that the voters can see which parties claim they can form a majority after an election if government power changes.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221104531	Thank you. It is probably most true that the debate, which Mr. Mattias Tesfaye leads, takes place from the platform. Then it's mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221104544	Thank you. That was actually just following what the President said. I just want to hear Mr. Knox. Martin Henriksen, whether he can confirm that it will be possible for the Socialist rapporteur in this area to take the floor and put forward his arguments so that those he criticises in the Chamber will also then have the opportunity to ask him questions and comment on the criticism he is now making from his place.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221104604	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221104606	I can confirm that; it is an option under the Rules of Procedure. I am still following away with great interest the debate between Social Democracy and the Enhedslisten from the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221104615	The President may confirm the same. Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221104622	I find it interesting that there are some divisions, but I think the most interesting division is the one that seems to be between the Social Democracy and the Danish People's Party in this. And there I think it might be interesting to hear Mr. Martin Henriksen looked at the views of the Social Democratic Party and argued that what the Social Democratic Party says is wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221104648	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221104650	It may also sound more like a discussion between the Socialist People's Party and the Social Democratic Party, where the Danish People's Party acts like such a channel here in the Assembly Hall. But we'd be happy to do that. Well, we're switching focus from integration to repatriation. I think that is quite clear. This is also evident from the answers to the hearings that have been sent in; it is clear from the political debate; it is clear from the articles that have been written; it is clear from the draft law. This is reflected in the report's contribution to the draft law. So I think it's pretty clear. But I have no problem saying that there is no prohibition in the draft law on taking a job, for example. There is no ban on that in the draft law. But the bill then suggests that even if you have taken up a job, it will be considerably easier for you to withdraw your residence permit, where it has previously been such that if you, for example, have taken up a job, it will be considerably easier for you to withdraw your residence permit. have been at work, your children have gone to school, you have been active in association, so it has been difficult to withdraw the residence permit, although you could actually send people back to their home countries. In those situations it will then be considerably easier, and that is very much where the transition from integration to repatriation lies. The focus will be more on repatriation. And I have to maintain and repeat that it is so good for Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221104800	Thank you. Let us try to get the debate back on track, so that is the questioner and rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221104807	Well, it's been from my side all along. Would the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party not agree that repatriation has always been part of refugee policy? It is, after all, part of the Refugee Convention that asylum is granted in a country, and then you have to go back again. It's always been like that. There's nothing new about that. What lies here is to do it more viciously in relation to the refugees who are actually here because you have some belief that otherwise they will not return home. And that is where the discussion is. And there the Danish People's Party may be trying to exaggerate it a little, because you want to go out in the election campaign and say: Now we have really pursued a very strict immigration policy. And social democracy may do the opposite. Wasn't it an idea to have a debate that might relate to the facts of these things?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221104859	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221104900	I can't confirm that the world is getting meaner with this bill. Maybe that would be a little too full. Well, I actually think I'm trying to relate to the facts and that I'm trying to relate to what the bill says. When I'm asked a question about what the bill says, I'll answer it. And it is true, as I have said before, that we are moving from a stronger focus on integration to a stronger focus on repatriation. That's right. That's what's going through the bill. It's still right that you can take a job. But the answer will still be that just everything else will be easier to repatriate a person compared to today, if it is that you have taken a job. It is true, then, that on paper it has been the case that there has been an opportunity to send refugees back, I was just saying always, but that has not happened, and the new is so that now we want it to be done in the future. That's the new one.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221104952	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221104956	When you drop focus on integration and switch to just focusing on repatriation, I would say that it is often very, very many years before people can return to war-torn areas, and we are talking about Syria, Afghanistan, Iraq, all sorts of places where there is so much uncertainty about people's lives. I would like to ask the rapporteur how he feels about this. One has to think that people are not fleeing for fun, but are fleeing because their lives and the lives of their families are threatened, and they come here because they need help, and that also means that people have to stay in Denmark as long as they are in danger. It may take a very long time, it may take 15 years, and I think that is simply a time perspective, which it seems to the Danish People's Party does not relate to at all when I think that they will make life as miserable as possible for people while they are here in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221105047	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221105048	It is true that there are conflicts that last for a very long time, and it is also true that we will still see situations where it will be difficult to send people home because there is a conflict that lasts for a very long time. But for example... That is positive, and of course we need it. It coincides well with this bill, which makes it easier to withdraw residence permits or refuse the extension of residence permits so that people can return to their home countries. What we are trying to do with this bill is to make it easier to include residence permits, easier to send people back, and this bill makes it easier, and in the view of the Danish People's Party there are areas in Syria to which it will be possible to send people back today, just as there are areas in Somalia where, despite the fact that it is not the best place in the world, there are also places to send people back to. So it's possible to send people back. In the view of the Danish People's Party, it will also be possible to send people back to Iraq and Afghanistan, for example. So you are not being sent back to a society that works impeccably, they do not, but if you think that you should only send people back to society when they are reminiscent of the Danish, we can never send people back.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221105158	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221105200	The Danish People's Party and also the government are already talking about sending people back to Syria, but when we see how completely despairing the situation is, for example. in Syria, it shows very clearly that there is something quite wrong in that we do not lift our responsibility to help those in need who have fled from war and who need a helping hand. I think that's such a big problem. To what was said earlier by the Social Democratic Party, I must say: Honestly, it is not Enhedslisten and others who create insecurity about what this law is about, it is the Danish People's Party, it is the Social Democracy, and it is the government that creates a deep, deep insecurity for so many people who need help.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221105236	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221105238	I understand if this legislation creates insecurity for the people with refugee backgrounds who are in Denmark. I understand that, because of course they have set out to do so, as experience shows, that now they must be in Denmark permanently, have a family and live the rest of their days here, and their children must grow up here, and they must live their lives in Denmark. So to them, of course, it creates insecurity. But the point that we in the Danish People's Party are trying to make is that the situation that we have had in Denmark for many years creates insecurity for a lot of Danes and, as such, also for a lot of immigrants who are well integrated and must be here permanently, and that is not appropriate, and that is where we think it must be our job in this House to take care of the Danes' interests first and foremost. And in the view of the Danish People's Party it is clear in Danish interest that when refugees can return to their countries of origin, they must return to their countries of origin, otherwise we will continue to build the parallel societies and ghettos that we have too many of in advance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221105334	Thank you. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221105339	Thank you. I'd like to ask Mr. Martin Henriksen about something. The debate that has been going on for many years has been very active in DF, i.e. that there has been non-verbal integration among certain groups, that one has had such a lot of one's own habits, culture, did not speak the Danish language etc. After all, there has been a significant voice in the debate about integrating into Danish society. Does the rapporteur not agree that ending integration as a point of reference is in fact contrary to what the DF has been saying for many years, namely that when you live in Denmark, you have to integrate; then you have to speak the Danish language and you have to live as the majority do?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221105429	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221105430	It can be said in this way that we have arrived at the recognition in the Danish People's Party that we have always had an ambition that people should return to their home countries; we have always had an ambition in the Danish People's Party that if we actually want people to return to their home countries, we will have to give priority to the political priorities we need to have the systems, the National Authority, the ministries, the municipalities, etc. to understand that this is now their priority, that is to say, repatriation rather than integration. If people are to return, we need to give it political priority, and that is what we are doing with this bill. And, of course, it is also in recognition of what we have probably achieved a long time ago that integration has not worked. So, despite the fact that we have adopted a great many initiatives in educational institutions and integration projects etc., integration is not going very well. Actually, it doesn't. Some have, of course, done well, but for a lot of people things are still going really, really bad. And there is their future in their home countries instead of in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221105526	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221105528	It is not true, in fact, that integration for the large majority goes badly. That is simply not true. But I just want to ask you something. When you have the policy in DF, in government and in social democracy that you do not want integration, because that is what is at the heart of the bill, do you not deny the right to criticise someone who may not really be integrated, because that is what your policy is aiming for? We should not have integration, we should not want integration. So in the future, when we see perhaps bell-clear examples of someone who does not want to integrate into Denmark, as we want, how can we criticise it when it is one's clear policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221105613	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221105614	Well, integration isn't going well. There are areas in Denmark where Danes are de facto in minorities. If that is the case, then integration is not going well, we have to maintain that. This is the case and has been the case, at least in all the time when I have been interested in immigration and integration policy, that there have just been a great many people who have not wanted to be integrated into Danish society. We have to take the consequence of that. The consequence is that then we will have to work on their return to their home countries, and that is where their future is. Their future is not in Denmark. That is what the bill is proposing. That's a plus. Incidentally, I would say that if people come here, whether temporarily or permanently, they owe the Danish society to pay to Danish society and to give a little more money to Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221105657	Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221105658	The rapporteur says that integration is not going well. He might as well have said: and yes, we are pleased with that, because we want them home. When was the last time the Danish People's Party tried to put forward a proposal or take an initiative at municipal or regional level that would benefit integration, which would only help integration to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221105724	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221105725	Well, it is not long ago that we here in Parliament had a proposal to prohibit public servants from wearing religious headgear, among other things. the Muslim scarf. That would certainly help the integration of the people who are here and who must be here permanently, because it would send a clear signal to them that the view of women and people behind the Islamic scarf will not be accepted here. And that would benefit integration. In addition, the Danish People's Party has participated in numerous agreements in connection with the Finance Act and the Rate Pool, which, of course, has not always been with our good will, but we have been involved in it occasionally. At some point you will have to evaluate that effort and see how integration is progressing, and then we have come to the conclusion that things are not really going very well: should we not try something new? And the new thing is that people must now return to their homeland as soon as possible. By the way, Enhedslisten should also support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221105808	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221105810	Then the rapporteur mentions a proposal which makes it extremely problematic and which only has symbolic value, because virtually no one has a problem with their headgear. I would like to hear that integration is not going well, it is being said. Is it true that the DF is quite happy with this because they do not think that people should be integrated, but that they should be sent home? And then you might as well put it plainly instead of the one who wriggled into saying that there are some others who make sure that things are not going well. D.C. is involved in this. DF itself, both with its attitude and its proposals, helps to ensure that integration in Denmark does not go well, and you are actually very pleased with it. That is the embarrassing thing, the indecent thing in this debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221105852	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221105856	I now think it is very decent to adopt a new asylum policy, which is about people having to return to their country of origin when they have the opportunity. I think this is decent in relation to the responsibility that we have here, and I also think it is decent to the Danes, whom we each represent. No, in the Danish People's Party we do not welcome the fact that there are still massive problems with integration. We are not happy about that. The best thing would then have been that the people who had come here decades ago had fallen to and become part of Danish society, that they had become Danes. But since this is not the case, despite great political efforts to make them Danes, we have to take the consequence of it, and that is what we are doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221105935	Thank you. Then no one else has any comment to make on Mr. Martin Henriksen. Unfortunately, there has been a technical error at this facility, so there has been a call for a vote in the House. I can see that Members are pouring in and thinking that there should be a vote; in fact, there should not be a vote right now. It's still not turned on. So you can follow the debate or whatever you want, but it will take a while before the vote takes place. Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221110010	Thank you very much. It is in many ways a sad day and a sad event that we are facing here. It is for a number of reasons. It is a sad day for our people's government, because this legal procedure and the way it has been carried out are a disgrace in terms of how we should take the legislation seriously in here. It has been said at first reading and also at second reading that the way in which this bill has been dealt with has been contrary to what we should have out of respect for this institution. A draft law is presented and has a deadline for consultation over the Christmas holidays, and then you have the nerve to table the proposal before the end of the consultation period. And the answer from the minister is that the government just needed this to go fast. It's not about getting a law that works; it's not about taking into account the employees who have to administer the law, or the human fates that are being affected by this law. No, it just had to be quick because one had to satisfy one's parliamentary basis; because one had to have something in house before a parliamentary election; because one might have to have the opportunity to celebrate another round cake day when one has made life miserable for people a new number of times. It is unworthy of the government and of the majority of the people who are voting today to approve this process, especially considering the far-reaching consequences this bill has for real people out there and for our society. We hope that when we get a new majority and another government after an election, we will see a different order in the legislative work. In any case, we do not intend to accept, as a support party, legal proceedings of this nature. It is also a sad day because of the content of the proposal. If you have to cut to the bone, it's all about making life harder, less comfortable for the people who have come here on the run from Assad's barrel bombs or from Islamic State's sex slavery and beheadings. They should feel less welcome in Denmark in the future. They must live for less money, they must reduce the benefits of integration. With open eyes, it is known that this will increase poverty in Denmark. The current integration grant already means that people live in poverty. We also know with open eyes that this will make integration more difficult. There is less money to send the kids to football, to invite the classmates home, to become part of the social life that can give a future in Denmark. You further restrict the right to family reunification, more divided families, more stories like those we have seen with children and young people who are Danes, have Danish friends, are just like their buddy over at school, but still have to be sent out and away from their homes and from their families. You pick this symbolic island out in Stege Bay and choose to spend 0.75 billion. kr. Moving people out there. Imagine how that money could have been spent out in our elderly care for a few more visits of home help, for a slightly better kitchen at the nursing home. But no, it is more important to pursue symbolic policy for the majority who are adopting this bill. And then you decide that in future it should not make any difference, that you make an effort, that you make an effort to become part of the society that you have come to, that you get a job, that you learn Danish, that you take an education, that it should no longer weigh to the same degree when you have to assess whether people should be allowed to stay in Denmark. Firstly, employers will say very clearly that it will reduce their motivation to give employment to these people because they do not know if they have their workforce the next day, but it will also harm integration, because it creates uncertainty for these families and children about the future. They do not know what the future will bring, and it is clear that it makes it harder to become part of the society in which you live; it makes it harder to become our neighbour, to become our colleague and to become the ones we meet down at the sports club. Instead of making sure they do, we're pushing them away from us with this bill. It is stated, as it were, that the purpose of this proposal is for people to return home when their country is calm. Yes, of course that's the starting point for a fugitive. Of course, you come here, you seek protection, but if there is peace and quiet in your country, you no longer have a need for protection, and then you have to go home again. But you just close your eyes to the reality that many of the conflicts people are fleeing from last for very many years for 5 years, for 10 years, for 15 years, and that means that there are families who have had children who have grown up here. There are people who have lived here for most of their lives. This is the balance that this proposal risks losing, that is, the consideration that people have got a very, very strong connection with this society. It will be to tear them up with a mess, not least the children born here, when after such a long time you have to expel them and in many cases you cannot expel them. So it's just an uncertainty that you create. To Mr. Mattias Tesfaye: It is not Enhedslisten that creates uncertainty among the people from whom the rapporteur and I and many others receive emails and enquiries from this time. It is this legislation that creates that uncertainty. It is the desire to make it harder for people to be allowed to stay here by creating that uncertainty. That's the purpose of this bill, that is to create a greater insecurity for people in terms of being allowed to stay here. If I have to say something nice about the social democracy in this process, it is, after all, that they voted in favour of some of the amendments tabled by Enhedslisten together with the alternative, the Radicals and the SF in various constellations, for example. on the integration benefit, e.g. on voting rights. This is positive, and it may give a hint that we can, however, change some things after an election which we hope we will get within a few months if a new majority arises. At the same time, however, it is also worrying that the Social Democratic Party will end up voting in favour of the overall legislative proposal, not least because the issue of the integration benefit which should not be called 'integration benefit' is as important a part of the proposal as one is against, but still chooses to vote in favour. These changes will make Denmark a worse place to live for all of us. This will make Denmark a more divided society, where we will have a growing B team of people who are here but are not really part of society with the rest of us. The fact is that this proposal does not make it easier to send refugees home, but it makes it easier to make them, and especially their children, feel that they do not belong here in all the years they have to be here and, for some, it is for the rest of their lives. This is not the way to achieve good integration, it is not the way to create a coherent society. It's a step in the wrong direction. In the Enhedslisten, we are going to elections in a different direction by emphasising precisely that people must become part of our society in a balance that takes into account the fact that there are conflicts that last so long that people have been associated with it that it is a violent abuse to tear them out of it. It is not because it is the intention when people come here that they should stay; we all hope then that people can return home, just as many also do, if we look at Chileans, Bosnians and other groups who have come here when really calm in their country. But when, for example, we get there. Looking at Syria, what is happening there? Assad, the poison gas killer, the torturer is winning the war. Is that the calm to which a majority in the Folketing wants to send refugees back? That's the problem with this proposal. You close your eyes to the real situation we have. It's sad because it's going to hurt really living people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221111006	Thank you. There are some comments. Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Dansk Folkeparti, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221111014	Thank you. The reason I am taking the floor here is that Mr. Pelle Dragsted's party colleague, sir. Christian Juhl in his speech just before almost got insinuated that it was the fault of the Danish People's Party that integration was so serious. Then he will just have to see how things stand on the other side of the Øresund in the self-proclaimed humanitarian power of Sweden. Is it better than in Denmark? No, by no means. On the contrary. The ghettos you have in Sweden, where you have spoken so nicely and gracefully about immigrants and, by the way, followed the policy of Enhedslisten, are considerably worse than the ones we have here at home. The challenge you have in Sweden is considerably greater than that we have in Denmark, and it is, despite the fact that you have done nothing but talk nicely and be inclusive and be protective, and I do not know what, towards immigrants and refugees. Sir. Pelle Dragsted must surely be able to see that even when we in this country in the third generation have immigrants who are doing worse in schools than the second generation immigrants did, then there is something roaring wrong. And is not the recognition just that the integration of people from predominantly Muslim countries cannot be achieved? - Sir... Pelle Dragsted point to a single Western European country that has managed to integrate the Muslims who have come to their countries just one?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221111131	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221111135	It may be that I should have been thick-skinned by now, but I am still shocked by the kind of racist statements in which a whole population is hated (the President, I would like to say no). We're not accusing each other of that. We have a proper tone). In other words, if you say that an entire population cannot be integrated, then I reserve the right to call it a racist statement. It is to assign a population group (the President is not discussing with the President at all. I would ask you to take note of this.' That has been noted. But I don't really care what words we use. The point is that there are people out there right now with Muslim background who hear what Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth says that people who have are We have even purchased members here in the Danish Parliament who are being pooled into that group and are being told that they just cannot be integrated. It may be that I should have just got thick skinned and overhear such remarks, but I will not, because I think it is obscene.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221111250	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221111253	But that's a fact, sir. Pelle Dragsted that Western Europe has a huge integration problem when it comes to people from predominantly Muslim countries. This is an undeniable fact, and it has nothing to do with the fact that there cannot be 1 single or 2 or 100 or 500 Muslims who can easily be integrated into Denmark. That is just not what we, as politicians, have to take into account. We need to think about the whole thing. And when we see that this is an impossible task to solve not only for Denmark but for Western Europe as a whole, why should we continue down the same path?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221111325	Thank you. Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221111328	Thank you for that nuance. I thought that was important, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. I in no way deny that integration is difficult and that integration presents challenges. And when you take as many refugees as you, for example. Sweden has done, the challenges are getting bigger. That goes without saying. These are people who come here from very different cultures, with a completely different religious background, many of them with serious war traumas in their luggage. Yes, it creates great challenges. The question then is whether the answer to that may be to say that we are sending them back into the arms of the Islamic State and Assad's barrel bombs, or that we must try to solve the task together. I think the last one.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221111405	Thank you. Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221111415	Thank you, Madam President. I was a little wondered that Mr. Pelle Dragsted spent much of his time using the word integration. This is the most used word in this debate, and perhaps it is fair enough because it is believed to be a break with decades of attempts at integration in Denmark. But then, in his rapporteur's speech, the rapporteur also mentioned this famous island in Stege Bay. I would just like to ask Enhedslisten whether Enhedslisten's rapporteur considers it reasonable to draw discussions on Stege Bay and an island to rejected criminal convicted asylum seekers who have been denied their cases in Denmark into a discussion on integration. Does Enhedslisten even think that it can be used as an argument in a so-called integration debate? You take out a group of people who have had their cases tested on whether they should be allowed to stay in Denmark. They have committed crime in Denmark, they have been sentenced in Denmark, they have been expelled from Denmark, they refuse to leave the country, and they are still doing crime where they live today, out in Ikast-Brande and elsewhere. Does the rapporteur really think that this is a good argument to use in an integration debate? I don't understand that at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221111522	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221111523	In other words, I am not the one who has chosen to table a legislative proposal which contains all of these elements in one proposal. You could have chosen to separate that. I have dealt with the various elements of the bill. And it is clear that people who have been expelled must, as a starting point, leave. The problem is that in many of these cases it is really difficult either because the countries to which they are leaving will not receive them or because the risk of their being subjected to the death penalty or torture is imminent. That's why we have a group of people in this case. When I look at this with Lindholm, I take my head at the financial costs you are prepared to bear, at the same time as you say that there is a ferry going back and forth. I see it as a stunt that was done in connection with the Finance Act to seem such tough on crime, or what you say, harsh when you say that you send immigrants out on a desert island. After all, they also got the headlines around the international press that they wanted. I just think it's a hole in the head to spend 0.75 billion. kr. on that project.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221111625	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221111628	Thank you. But that does not change the fact that the rapporteur used it as an essential argument in his rapporteur's speech for voting against this bill on repatriation plans rather than integration plans in Denmark. That's where Mr. Pelle Dragsted it as an example. The rapporteur even used the word that it was a symbol. That was a clear statement from Mr. Pelle Dragsted. The example of rejected criminal asylum seekers was used in an integration debate. I just think it is completely strange to use that argument in this country. More than half of the inmates in Danish prisons have immigrant backgrounds over half. And if you take the closed prisons, it's way over half. Integration in Denmark is therefore a city in Russia.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221111716	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221111718	Well, I'm not defending some people committing crime, no matter where they come from or what their background is. Well, I don't understand those objections at all. When I mention Lindholm, it is because it is part of the bill and because I think it is crazy that you spend 0.75 billion. kr. on moving some people out there. I do not see that it is worth the money compared to other solutions that could have been found. But it's not a defense of someone committing crime. I don't think anyone should do that. I think that is wrong. So I do not think I fully understand the rapporteur's approach to the issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221111749	Thank you. Then it's mr. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221111757	Thank you for the floor. Today, the legislation says that if there is peace in a refugee's country of origin and if there is no connection with Danish society, then you can include a residence permit and, as far as connection is concerned, it says that you have to assess a lot of different criteria. One of them is that it says that it is included with special weight if a foreigner has been in full-time employment for approx. 3 years or in part-time employment for approx. 5 years. Of course, we can discuss whether it should be full-time employment for 1 or 3 or 5 or 7 years, but as long as we are working on a concept of temporary residence permit, we need some criteria to assess whether there is an attachment or not. I believe that the Enhedslisten and the Social Democratic Party can agree on that. One of the other criteria is how long the children have lived here and how long residence time there has been in Denmark and how strong a connection there is with the home country. But as long as we work with temporary residence permits, we end up in a situation where some refugees will be told: Now there is peace in your home country, on the one hand, and you have no connection with Denmark, and thus your residence permit is withdrawn, and so you have to go home. That must be the logic as long as we work with temporary residence permits. Therefore, I would like to ask Enhedslisten: Does the Enhedslisten really believe that when they are granted asylum in Denmark, refugees must have a permanent residence permit or temporary residence permit?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221111907	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221111910	With the danger that I am not a rapporteur for foreigners, I think I can correctly interpret the asylum policy of the Enhedslisten. We do not believe that permanent residence permits should be granted from the first day. We believe that temporary residence permits should be granted, as the Convention on Refugees also provides. However, we do not remember the precise proposal we have put forward that the duration before you can obtain a permanent residence permit should be less than it is today, just as we believe that it should be easier and quicker to obtain citizenship. Why? Because we believe that it is very harmful and burdensome for families to live for many years in very great uncertainty about the future, and it is clear that there is a balance here. Because if you are to have anything called temporaryity at all, and I think it is fair that you should, because what distinguishes a refugee from an economic migrant or others who want to come here is that they have a need for protection, and if that need for protection disappears, they are no longer refugees. There is that balancing point with us, then, other than with the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221112018	Thank you. Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221112022	I think we are beginning to approach what the legislative proposal is really about in this discussion. For the Enhedslisten is also in favour of refugees being granted a temporary residence permit. Then the whole of the rapporteur's preliminary speech, which was about us tearing people up with a mess and sending them home to their country of origin, has completely fallen to the floor, because that is what Enhedslisten is in favour of. It is only a question of when we believe that connection has been achieved. This bill slightly adjusts when a link has been obtained. But what is really the greatest essence of it is that refugees are met with more honesty by the Danish authorities, who tell them more honestly from the start: The purpose of your stay in Denmark is temporary, it may be that the conflict takes a long time, and then you can have the opportunity to be here permanently. But that's the purpose. Why don't we meet people with that honesty?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221112109	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221112113	Yes, I think it absolutely must be done, and I hope that this has been done so far, where the same rules have been applied. But I do not understand why the whole of my rapporteur's speech should have fallen to the ground. For a mess is something that grows slowly. So there is a difference between how long and how much you have to have done and how many years you have to live in uncertainty. That's exactly what this discussion is all about, that is to say, finding that balance, and I don't think this bill makes it any easier. 'Cause then I don't think that mr. Martin Henriksen had stood up here looking so happy and talking about a paradigm shift. But, of course, the future will show this.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221112154	Thank you, sir. Pelle Dragsted. Then there are no more comments or questions. The next rapporteur is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221112215	Thank you. This bill has a great many elements, and we have been through it both in the first and second readings, and there have been rapporteurs up here who have gone through a number of things. For me, the most important thing here at the third reading is to say what is about the lack of recognition. The fact that "integration" is deleted from the law... which is almost done such a ctrl-all-delete function... shows that it is. It has also been well reviewed with Mr. Martin Henriksen's speech. That is what we want to signal: to say to people who have fled here that they are undesirable. That is what, in my view, will have the greatest consequences. Because even though they have come here and are recognised refugees and everyone really knows that they can't go anywhere right now, you say, green to this legislation, that they're unwanted. These are the employees who today work for our elderly and sick, very many of them work in the kitchens of our restaurants and cafés and cook the food for us, and that's right, a lot of those who clean our jobs to whom we say: You're unwanted. That's what bothers me the most. Because the law does not mean that a whole lot of refugees are being sent out of Denmark. We cannot do that, but in return we are being signalled to those who are here with a need for protection that they must live forever in a waiting position as undesirable. In fact, it is saying: you have no future. We would never go to people in all other contexts. On the contrary, because we know that recognition makes people contribute. It is Danish educational policy, it is Danish school policy, it is Danish education policy, it is Danish employment policy. In all other contexts it is the arguments we use because we know that rejection and non-recognition, telling people, people, children, young people that they are unwanted, creates the opposite effect of what we want. It creates uncertainty, it creates marginalisation, it creates the risk of everything we have fought against with our integration policy: parallel societies, that we share and not meet. That is what I think is most serious about this bill, because it has no real consequence, compared to the fact that suddenly there are far, far fewer refugees in Denmark; it is not going to happen. But those who are here are told that they are unwanted and that will have real consequences. That's the pity of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221112616	Thank you. Sir. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221112618	There are foreigners in Denmark who are undesirable. After all, it is rejected asylum seekers who do not cooperate on their return journey; it is people who are being treated; it is criminal foreigners that we cannot expel. They're unwanted aliens. People who have a residence permit are not unwanted. They're not. I can at least say this on behalf of the Social Democratic Party: if an asylum seeker comes to Denmark and gets a residence permit because he or she needs protection, then we will never ever call him or her undesirable, of course not. So I do not think there is any reason why the Radical Left should accuse the Social Democratic Party of this. My question is that the radical rapporteur says that we are keeping people in an eternal waiting position. Can the radical rapporteur not just confirm that it is wrong, 1) because people have the opportunity to apply for a permanent residence permit after 4 or 8 years, 2) because, after a number of years, people will, after all, have achieved so much connection with Denmark that it will not be possible to include residence permits?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221112718	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221112722	I did not express a specific criticism of the Social Democratic Party. But it is interesting that the Social Democrat rapporteur takes it as a personal criticism of Social Democracy. I expressed a criticism of the bill, because that is the view and the signal that comes out of this bill, and I take note of and hope that the statements made by the Social Democrat rapporteur here and the criticisms he does not want from this bill mean that it will actually be possible to rectify this. But it was quite clear with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that this is the signal that is being sent with this law. It is true that, fortunately, it is still the case that you have been here for enough time, been in work for many years, your children have been here, they have been born here and raised here for many years and I would like to say it very clearly out there, so hopefully it will get through better, so it is possible to get a permanent stay in Denmark and be allowed to be here just when you contribute and have done it for lots and lots of years. It should be easier yet, but it's still possible, and it's really good. But it remains that the signal and purpose of this bill is to tell people that they are not welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221112848	Thank you. Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221112851	I am responding because the rapporteur refers to the parties supporting this bill, and so does the Social Democrats. I would like to repeat that everyone who has a residence permit in this country is our fellow citizens and that we must make it work with those people who have a residence permit and who are legally staying here. But I would like to ask the Radical Left, just as I asked the Enhedslisten: is it not true that when the Radical Left is in favour of refugees being granted a temporary residence permit, the natural consequence of the policy is that it can also be involved if there is peace in the country of origin and if there is no connection with Denmark, and that the Radical Left is therefore also in favour of refugees being able to be repatriated, even with coercion, if they themselves do not cooperate on that return? Is it not true that the Radical Left is in favour of a policy that wants to repatriate people if there is peace in their country of origin and that the Radical Left, if people do not cooperate, wants to repel them with coercion?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221112943	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221112946	The Radical Left is also in favour of temporary residence, as the Enhedslisten's rapporteur explained. After all, these are the criteria that are changing with what this is all about. So that's the way we do it. Because what the Social Democrat rapporteur should be going on the floor and explaining is why the word integration has to come out of all the legislation. That's the signal that's clearly out there. Why should it be called a return service instead of an integration service? Moreover, it is far too low, but fortunately the rapporteur agrees with that. I am glad that the Social Democrat rapporteur makes it clear that we are citizens of this country, that people who are here with a residence permit and have a need for protection are citizens of this country. We could use much, much more of that, and I agree with the rapporteur that that is what is needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221113050	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221113054	I think this is turning into a very strange semantic discussion about whether refugees are wanted or not. I have heard Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen say on several occasions, including from this platform, that she did not really want a lot of refugees to come to Denmark because she thought it would be good if there were good conditions in the country of origin. Then why are we debating whether someone is wanted or unwanted? In other words, most of us here want as few refugees to come to Denmark as possible, yes, perhaps not the alternative and perhaps not the Radicals. But I have heard before that the Radicals took that view. Then I have to say to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen that Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen is trying to paint such a picture that we are sending a lot of people home who are working and who are doing a lot of work for the country and so on. If we look at the acids, isn't it just a fact that there are more people who don't order anything than those who actually work? That's a fact. This cannot be avoided, and I cannot see how it can be a favourable situation for Denmark to ensure that these people stay here, while other Syrians in the vicinity go back to Syria. It's just about getting those people started to be returned to Syria, just like the people who came not so far away during the conflict that was.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221113204	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221113206	Yeah, but that's not what the bill's about. It is about taking the word integration out and calling it the return service. It's not something that couldn't have happened in the past. I have not said that suddenly a lot of people are being sent out of the country who are at work. I don't think there's gonna be a lot of people coming out with this bill, and that's why it's a signal law, made for campaigning and not for real. However, the uncertainty that it creates in the people who are in work, and indeed in the people who are going to work, has dramatic consequences.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221113245	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221113248	Something must be wrong with this bill since it so excites Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen so much. Well, if it was just symbolic legislation that didn't matter, why does the Radical Left spend the time of the honorable Things standing here talking about that proposal? Well, there must be something wrong with that proposal. The reason why this proposal comes through is that there is a majority in this Parliament who wants to put an end to the tragedy of integration. It is something that cannot be done for most; it can be done for few. And those for whom it is possible will be able to do so, regardless of whether there is integration or not in a legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221113319	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221113321	Now I don't know how others see it, so who's most excited in this exchange, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. But I explained the consequences of the bill, because it has real consequences, just not the consequences that the bill wants, namely that thousands of refugees suddenly come out of Denmark. This has consequences for those who are here, who are now in a state of uncertainty: those who clean up our jobs, those who work in the social and health sector with our elderly and our sick people, as has been made quite clear by the trade union movement and employers. These are the consequences it will have, and that is a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221113405	Thank you to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. The next one is sir. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221113426	It is well known that we are voting against this bill. It's got such a headline called paradigm change. And some of the interesting things in today's debate have been the different interpretations of this bill that have been put forward, especially among the parties who vote for it. Because when you hear the Socialist rapporteur interpret this bill, which will be voted through in a little while, and then the Danish People's Party's interpretation of it, you can hear that these are two very different interpretations. Where the Danish People's Party is trying to talk it up and says it is a huge change and it is a completely new time that we are in after we have this adopted here, one can hear the Socialist rapporteur interpret the bill as if it is basically the same as at the moment with some adjustments, but it continues as before. It is not, of course, a new discipline in politics that such interpretations are made in this way that I myself have been involved in it several times over the years, so that is not it. Nevertheless, it might be important that you sort of focus on what it is actually about. 'Cause, uh, sir... Martin Henriksen, it is nothing new that refugees should be sent home; there is nothing new in it. Therefore, I find it difficult to see this as a paradigm shift in the sense that people are now starting to treat refugees in a completely fundamental way other than in the past, in relation to whether they should be sent home or not. You treat them differently. That's right. It is done to try to make life more intolerable for them here in Denmark, by reducing the benefits of integration, removing the obligation for municipalities to provide permanent housing, and removing the reimbursement to the municipalities that they receive if they are to provide help to people who need special help, for example. for dental care. In other words, the social deterioration of a group of people is enormous. And there I think it is important to say that the Danish People's Party, which in many cases tries to make itself a socially responsible party, has a different sound when it comes to foreign people coming to Denmark. So it is there, if you may say so, that the change is there. And what consequences it has, compared to how many people are sent home and leave Denmark, nobody knows anything about. Nobody knows anything about that. I'm not sure it's gonna have that much impact. What I know is that those who are actually in Denmark are being impoverished, have worse opportunities and are being stigmatised to a greater extent. I think this is an unpleasant development for our society. However, those who vote in favour of the proposal have to do so. And it is undeniable that the social deterioration of the people concerned is taking place. It has nothing to do with the interpretation of this bill. That is also why I would like to say to the Social Democrats that I am in favour of the Social Democrats voting in favour of some amendments at second reading which removed these social deteriorations, and I also respect and recognise that they did. But then it's just that I don't understand why you go all the way and vote for this bill. And perhaps this is also the continuation of one thing I have not really understood by the socialist policy of foreigners. I understand that there is a need to tighten up foreign policy, and there are many reasons for this. On the one hand, there are specific problems in our country and, on the other hand, it can be seen that social democratic parties in other European countries are extremely pressured and, in fact, some are waning because of this issue. I understand that this challenge must be addressed in some way; I understand that. But there is no reason to go all the way with the Danish People's Party, and that is what has been done very much in recent years. There's no need for that. People can understand that you need to have a strict immigration policy and you need to tighten up, but without having to degrade the conditions so badly for the refugees who are having their situation deteriorating here. People can understand that, even without having to go into the rhetoric that the Danish People's Party is also driving today. I do not need that ugly expression here, but at least it is a very ugly rhetoric that is being used here today too. And I simply do not understand the fact that you are unable to distance yourself from it. That's why I'm a little incomprehensible about not voting yellow to this. I understand that it can be difficult to vote red, because you want to go somewhere along the way and there are some sensible things in it. I can understand that. However, to vote yellow, I think it would be logical to indicate precisely that the amendments voted for were not adopted and that there is a serious social deterioration for some people for whom we all have a responsibility. And by voting for this bill, you will be responsible for the actual deterioration, even if you voted in favour of the amendments at second reading. So I don't understand. In other words, I do not agree at all with the call made by the Danish People's Party that the world is now changing completely, and I doubt that it will have the effect that it is being proposed. Is it just symbol politics? No, it is not, because there are these specific deteriorations, and it cannot be ruled out that it can have an impact. So it's not just symbol politics, but it's not that big, huge change of the whole thing that the Danish People's Party is calling into question, because some of it you actually have at the moment. And I don't think it's anything like that, either. Mattias Tesfaye is trying to say. This is something. And that is why we are not going to model this so-called paradigm shift that lies in this bill, and we are therefore voting against it here at the third reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221114155	Thank you. Sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221114201	Thank you. Of course, you can always discuss how much an impact a bill will have. In the Danish People's Party we believe that it will have a great effect. Of course you can discuss that, but we believe that. We are convinced of this. I would also like to say that there are other things, for example. Is the right of refugees to a permanent residence in the municipalities being abolished? which we in the Danish People's Party think is excellent, because why should refugees be better off than Danes? But you also change some of the paragraphs and remarks that make it easier for the authorities to withdraw residence permits, refuse to extend residence permits and thus send more homes, including by force. That is also evident from the draft law. But I understand, sir. Holger K. Nielsen believes that SF also thinks it is okay that people return to their home countries at some point. That is how I have understood the remarks made, sir. Holger K. Nielsen has joined us today. Is that correct? And if that is correctly understood, what will the SF do to ensure that there are more refugees returning to their home countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221114252	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221114256	We will then do as we are at the moment to put pressure on those concerned; that, where there is peace and quiet in their home countries, they will be sent home. But the problem is, when you mention Syria, that it is absurd to send people back to Syria, as Syria is at the moment. It is completely meaningless to do so. It also makes no sense to imagine that there will be peace in Syria over the next many years. So this isn't about putting pressure on the person in question. It's about an assessment of whether it's responsible to send people back. There I understand that the Danish People's Party is willing to send people back to the worst areas where suicide bombs still remain, where chaos is still in place, where war still exists. It does not affect the Danish People's Party. It also says a little about their human vision.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221114353	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221114358	Our view of people in the Danish People's Party is fine. I don't know how sir. Holger K. Nielsen's human vision has it. But ours is fine. I understand that sir. Holger K. Nielsen believes that refugees should return at some point. I understand. And then Mr. Holger K. Nielsen to what we are doing now and what has been done so far. But this has not led to a significant return of people. So if it's SF's opinion that people should eventually return, then we're just asking from the Danish People's Party that's what I'm going to ask questions about what it is that SF will do of new things to make sure that more people are actually returning to their home countries. For Mr. Holger K. Nielsen is, of course, right in that it has always been the idea that asylum was a temporary aid measure, and then people should return home. But that has not happened to a significant extent. It just didn't happen. What we're trying to do is make sure it happens. And what will the SF, which is new, make sure that we send more refugees back to their home countries? Because that's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221114455	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221114458	Well, at least people are being sent back to their home countries. The fact that it doesn't happen at all is nonsense. At least refugees will be sent back to their home countries. There are some who do so voluntarily, and others who do so involuntarily. That is why we have also voted in favour of various arrangements relating to the repatriation scheme, for example, where we provide financial support for it and where we encourage it in different ways. So we are willing to discuss all those models that can be, and we will be in the future too.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221114529	Thank you, and thank you, sir. Holger K. Nielsen. Then there are no more rapporteurs. Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221114541	It has been quite a veritable fight that we have witnessed here in the last hour. When I say that, it has been done primarily on the left and on the left between parties. So it's been kind of a weird experience. In any case, it must be said that the debate here has once again shown the abyssed disagreements about the policy of foreigners in the opposition. To put it mildly, this has not been short on hard words about the draft law here, but it is not the opposition parties between them. I think, of course, that it is gratifying that the Socialists will end up voting in favour and that a solid majority will therefore be behind this proposal. Of course, it's one of the things the government always wants. I also think that it is quite clear even more after the debate here today than before, and it is not, of course, because it has not been clear so far that there should be a red majority after the elections, yes, so that the area of foreigners will become a battlefield and run the risk of losing sight of and ending up in chaos. This bill is, in my opinion, one of the most fundamental in the field of foreigners during this government's period. It has to be said that right here the opposition is scattered to all winds. When I hear the Radical Left, the alternative, the Enhedslisten and the SF in the debate on this bill today, it is clear to me that we will fight from house to house to ease the policy of foreigners, and I think that is something we should take and take note of when we, as elected representatives, do not have to vote for a parliamentary election in very long time. The bill is a continuation of the government's strict immigration policy. We have managed to control the influx of 100 restrictions on foreign policy since the last parliamentary elections, and this is not just because the influx into Europe has fallen. This is also due to the fact that Denmark has become a less attractive asylum destination compared to other European countries. For example: As Mrs Mette Frederiksen was responsible for the area of foreigners, Denmark was the fifth most attractive asylum destination in the European Union. It was back in 2014. Now we're down to a 16th place. We were in the third quarter of 2018. This is, of course, because we have moved the foreign policy, and we have done so with the long series of tightenings that we have carried out. So it is also the case that while Mrs Mette Frederiksen spent her time in the government relaxing, yes, 45 times, as Mr. Morten Østergaard has told us, so it has to be said that this government has spent its time trying to get the foreign policy under control. The government has also significantly improved integration and, of course, among other things. doubled the employment rate for newcomers refugees. Now we are taking another step because we are focusing more on the fact that being a refugee is something you are temporarily. Of course, if and when there is peace in your homeland, you have to return home. Well, that's what this bill's gonna do, so it's gonna happen now more than in the past. Because we have to say that this is an area in which we have certainly not been very good up to now. But it must necessarily be the case that when we no longer need our protection, we must, of course, return home, build up our country, just as previous peoples have always done. This is, of course, something of the essence of this bill that we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221115043	Thank you, Minister. Sir. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221115045	Thank you. Before the Finance Act negotiations began, we in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration were sent a document stating that out of the approx. 100,000 refugees who had been granted a residence permit in Denmark for the last decade remained more than 90,000 still away in Denmark. That is to say, more than 90%. Still here. And the whole purpose of this bill is to see if you can change it a little, whether you can have more residence permits withdrawn, if that is not the case, and if peace has been achieved in your home country. In the comments to the bill in section 18.1. on residence permits for refugees, there is an assessment of how much effect this will have in practice, and it says: "It is expected that the restrictions... will have a noticeable effect on the Danish withdrawal practice...·. We have also asked in writing in connection with the draft law whether the Ministry could come a little closer, i.e. whether we could get the figures quantified. And we could not do that in the written reply, but following on from the debate that has taken place in the Chamber today, I would like to hear from the Minister whether the Minister can come closer to this, other than that it will have a noticeable effect. So, are we talking about 80% who will be here after a decade, or 70%, or can we even approach it?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221115207	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221115208	In other words, I can rely entirely on the written answers that have been given, just as I can, of course, rely entirely on what the draft law says. We expect a noticeable effect, but of course we cannot put a figure on that. If sir... Mattias Tesfaye can do it, it will be fine, just as it would have been very good if Mr. Mattias Tesfaye had taken the platform, so members of the Folketing could have also liked to have debated the bill with the Social Democratic Party. But that has not been possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221115242	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221115244	Well, I'm asking because we've been trying to read this carefully and understand what the effect of this is actually going to be. And my best assessment is, I would say, that the real effect of this is more the approach that refugees meet with when you get a residence permit • actually also when you are in the asylum system, but especially when you get a residence permit • and show up at the municipality and are told: Welcome here to X-købing. Your children must go to the school; here is a residence you can live in; here is your practicing doctor. And by the way, you should know that your stay in Denmark is for temporary stay and that we will constantly assess the possibilities to help you get home and rebuild your own country. Can the Minister not confirm that this is perhaps the most important thing about this bill, namely that people are being met with a more honest message that it is a temporary stay they are going to have in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221115336	Thank you. And then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221115339	At any rate, it can be said that the refugees who are now living in Denmark are being met with temporary treatment, and they are being told this over and over again. That will be shown by the name of the benefit, and that will be reflected in the conversations that they are going to have, so that part has Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, of course, is right. But what is in the bill here also means that there is an increased focus on the fact that nine out of ten should not continue to be in Denmark, but that one should go home. That is why, as we do, we write in the comments, namely that we expect a noticeable effect. So it's a boat and it's not like that, sir. Mattias Tesfaye like suggests here that it should only be with the attitude we meet the refugees.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221115427	Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221115429	Thank you and thank the Minister for taking the floor. It is always nice to be able to discuss the legislation we are discussing here in the Folketing. It would have been desirable for more parties to have done so. Now, in this debate, there is always a temporary mention, which is why I have a very simple question: how long on average is a person on the run on the planet on which we live? So that's the time you're on the run, how many years is it on average?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221115456	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221115458	I do not have the figure here, but there is no doubt that there are many people on the run for a long time. But that does not change the fact that, for example, in cases where there is calmness. Of course, some of the country from which people were fleeing at the time must go home. There's no doubt about that, and I think that's it, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist is fishing for many very long conflicts in the world. There is, but there is also the opposite, and there is also the possibility of going home at times. And that is what we want to focus on, that is to say, that you must, of course, return home and rebuild your country.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221115536	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221115538	Well, what I'm really getting stuck in is what it means when you're talking about temporaryness. What does it really mean in a person's life? How do we treat a human being? That is why I am actually asking the Minister to say that it is not just a few months that we are on the run, but that it is actually a very, very many years on average, and I just think the Minister should deal with that. Temporaryness is no longer temporary if you are born and raised and have gone to school, etc. On the run. Then you can talk about the concrete, and you can also talk about the signals that are in the legislation and that I know you care a lot about the minister, but this is a signal that you are not welcome, that you are only visiting temporarily.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221115620	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221115622	But you're only here temporarily, and you're here as long as you need protection. That is clearly what we are working on. But this is obviously an area that we have never succeeded in in Denmark since nine out of ten have remained in Denmark. And you can say it so squarely that if we both protect the people who need protection, but also keep those who no longer need protection, then many people will be living in Denmark with a very, very foreign background. And it will also mean that there will be far too much change in both Danish culture and Danish values as we see it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221115712	Thank you. Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221115714	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Minister for taking the floor. I also think that the debate has gone very hard, especially the exchange I had in the past. I understand that there are certain words that are not to be used in the Folketing. But I would actually just like the Minister to respond to the statement made by Mr Seligman. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, namely that it is not possible to integrate people who have a background in a predominantly Muslim country, that it cannot be done if one comes from such a country, to integrate and become part of Denmark. I think it would be very nice to see that the Danish People's Party is not yet, fortunately, the government-supporting party that the minister clearly announced to the many people who have made a huge effort to become part of Denmark and have become that the minister does not share the view that came from Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221115813	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221115815	I think it would be appropriate if Mr. Pelle Dragsted then dealt with what Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth also said that, of course, there are also people who are, but it doesn't help to close our eyes to the fact that if we look at non-western immigration, too many people live in parallel societies and too many who have even developed countercultures for Danish culture. So you have to be unusually blue-eyed if you haven't noticed. I hear Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth as a representative of putting the very, very serious situation on the agenda through the question he asked. That's why I don't understand why we need to spend more time on this. I don't really understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221115912	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221115915	I was also pleased with the nuance that came in the second round, but when we spend time on it, it is because it is something that is said in here from one of the most important speaking chairs in the country and that goes directly to the people who are fellow citizens of our country. I would like to quote what was said: 'And is not just the recognition that the integration of people from predominantly Muslim countries cannot be achieved?' It's why I actually think it's important that the government sends a clear signal that it's not the government's position that coming from a particular country automatically means that you can't be integrated. This does not mean that I do not recognise problems or anything else; I just do not like generalisations of this kind for the whole population.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221120006	Thank you, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221120010	No, and that's why it might actually have dressed Mr. Pelle Dragsted to be based on the last quote and not on the first quote in the second round, if you may say so, Mr. Pelle Dragsted is completely ignoring, I think, the problems that we see around in Danish society. We must also expect that when you come to Denmark, when you want to live your life in Denmark, you get integrated, you support yourself, you support your family, you take the language, the culture and the value set to you. Well, that's to be expected, sir. Pelle Dragsted. And that's what's so weird when you're arguing with one of them. Members of the Enhedslisten, that is to say, completely disregard that part of it and fail at all to be critical, even in this debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221120102	Thank you. Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221120110	This is, in fact, the last comment made by the Minister, namely that language and culture are being taken into account. I agree with that, but I am not in favour of assimilation. I am in favour of integrating into society and, of course, maintaining one's own culture at the same time. It gives the most to the whole human being. But can the Minister not explain how people should embrace language and culture when it becomes harder to learn Danish at all; when it becomes harder to get to work at a Danish workplace and manage themselves; when it becomes harder to participate in the association life, in the society we have; when with this law we help to isolate these people even more.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221120149	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221120152	Now I am simply in doubt whether Mr. Christian Juhl has read the bill at all, because this has nothing to do with making it harder to get out to work. It is actually exactly the opposite, because we are creating a clear incentive also by reducing the benefit so that it can pay more quickly and better to work. And that it's gonna be harder to learn Danish what kind of bullshit it is, it's got nothing to do with this bill. On the contrary, it is in this that as long as you stay in Denmark, you have to support yourself and yours. You have to take Denmark in. Of course, you also have to learn the language, and it is also the case that language teaching is something you learn even and freely as a refugee. And in addition, I would just like to draw attention to the fact that the government at this time... negotiates with the social partners to continue initial integration training as well. So that's it, sir. Christian Juhl says is simply not correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221120247	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221120250	That is quite simply correct. If you know a little about how integration works out in the country of origin, you know that with the package now being delivered, it will be even harder, yes, the sister party to the left, the Danish People's Party, admitted precisely that this will of course create fear among a great many refugees and immigrants in Denmark, and that was quite conscious, I could understand. So it will be much, much harder. Surely you can ignore that and say that no, no, it has nothing to do with it. But if cutting the benefits further down to something completely extreme, where you can hardly even survive in our society and where we make families of children poor, shouldn't make it harder to work in this society, then I don't know what.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221120336	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221120339	Well, I'd like to say to sir. Christian Juhl, that the intention is not to be on integration benefits. The point is to get into the labour market. That is what is at the heart of the matter, that is to say we have a clear expectation and also demand that you must of course support yourself and yours if you can. So this is not a question of keeping people on the benefits of integration, but rather of getting into the labour market. And if that is not one of the things that also makes your children fall into a country and that you have the opportunity to take the country and the set of values, then I don't know what it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221120413	Sir. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221120415	Thank you. Well, I actually just feel called to speak because of the unworthy expression that Mr. Pelle Dragsted has used, by bringing racism and race ideology into a discussion about Islam, Muslims and parallel societies. That is something that everyone can see by opening their eyes, that is to say, it is not a new discussion. I just think it is compromising for the Enhedslisten, who has never bothered to take that debate and is not interested in it, that one then starts to accuse people who actually have something essential to say about Islam and Muslim immigration, for something and shame them out in that way. It was just a question; the rapporteur agrees.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221120456	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221120458	I can at least say that I also thought it was a strange attack on a member of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221120511	Thank you. No one else has asked for the floor. Then we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221120515	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 76 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister. Then I shall postpone the sitting until 8:00. 13.00. No? Okay, I get it! We will take the next votes, of course we will.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221120620	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. Then we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221120637	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 99 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221120718	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221120729	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 75 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 23 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The draft parliamentary resolution has been adopted and will now be sent to the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing. Then there are no more votes today, so I shall postpone the sitting until 8 a.m. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221130021	The sitting is resumed. The debate is open. The first rapporteur is the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr. Mattias Tesfaye. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221130104	It is of course important to have control over who comes here and is staying in Denmark, and whether the people who come here are who they pretend to be. The vast majority of people who are issued special travel IDs are completely ordinary people. And it may well happen that you lose your passport at an unfortunate moment if a thief has had his hand in your bag or you have just lost your passport somewhere. Unfortunately, we can also see that these are not only unfortunate situations, as I have just mentioned, but also people who take advantage of the possibility of having a new passport issued to pass on or sell their special travel ID to smugglers and to people who want to come to Denmark illegally. And, of course, it must be stopped, that is clear. Berlingske was able to report on Monday that out of 400 Turkish passports, the Swedish authorities had discovered that one in ten had been forged and that the sale of false IDs on the black market is increasing. In the light of that, and also in the light of the fact that we live in a time when, among other things, we live. IS warriors would like to return to Europe and Denmark, we must pay extra attention when it comes to the question of travel ID and whether it belongs to the right people. Of course, we can never guard 100% against the success of people who want to come here on an illegal basis, but we need to tighten up the legislation so that we can help our authorities to prevent the resale and disclosure of special travel documents issued by our authorities. That is why we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221130239	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221130248	I would like to ask the Social Democrat rapporteur whether it is a little problematic that we risk taking administrative and discretionary decisions on extra penalties without having a chance to defend ourselves against it at all. It is, of course, discretionary and administrative punishment that is given to them in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221130314	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221130315	Thank you for the question. There are several parts of this bill that are based on the information we get from the government, and we have chosen to base it on the fact that when the government believes that there are challenges in this area and that there is a need for tightening up, we want to support it. We have done so several times since the last parliamentary elections, when it has been about travel documents, and we have also chosen to do so here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221130337	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221130338	Well, isn't it important that we make a demand for proof that there is any need for such a tightening here before we say that what the government is saying must be right? After all, there is no evidence that there is a real need for tightening up in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221130356	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221130357	It is true that we do not have a report here which accurately documents how much fraud there is with travel documents, but we have dealt with these issues in the past, among others. in connection with the establishment of the National ID centre, which was to verify documents. In relation to media history, I just mentioned something about the Turkish passport in Sweden, but also general sound logic says that it will be easier and easier to copy travel documents, and that is why I think it is quite reasonable for the Western European states to guard against their being copied and re-sold.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221130430	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall now proceed to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Christian Langballe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221130438	In relation to the previous debate on the paradigm shift, it is hardly one of these legislative proposals that causes blood to roll faster, or I do not know whether there will be so much debate on it. We think that is very reasonable. According to the reliable sources that I have, which I unfortunately cannot reveal, there is massive fraud with passports, and of course we have to address that. I can't let it get swindled. I would also say that if you lose your passport three to four times in one year or two, something is wrong. I've never lost a passport. Once can be understood, but losing it three to four times in a few years suggests that there is fraud in it. So it is good that there is tightening up so that the authorities can refuse to issue passports to a foreigner for 5 years if the applicant has been issued a passport in several stages in recent years. It is also fine to address the problem that passports are distorted, that pages are removed from the passport. I think it is quite appropriate that this legislation should now be tightened up. Or, if foreigners have tried to lend their passports to others or the passport has been used by others to enter the country, it is of course also fair that it is criminalised and punished more severely than it has been done. The same applies to fraud. If incorrect information has been provided or substantial information has been concealed, it is of course essential to deal with it by means of legislation. So all in all, I think it is actually a perfectly reasonable legislative proposal and we can only welcome it. There is, of course, this case of laissez-passer travel ID, which you then tighten up at the same time, and that is reasonable enough. So we support this proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221130701	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221130704	I would like to say to the rapporteur that I think that the DF is gradually travelling around with quite a lot of loose claims about what the world looks like without documenting it. The rapporteur says that according to reliable sources, which he unfortunately cannot reveal, there is a massive fraud of passports. Why, then, has the Ministry not been able to provide evidence that there is a certain increase or massive fraud with passports? I don't think our police are sleeping. I really believe that they are working very, very systematically on these issues. That is why I would like to say: could I not know where to find out? The rapporteur must be able to explain this to me when he makes such a claim.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221130751	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221130753	With the Enhedslisten, which is constantly on another planet in terms of foreign policy, I do not know what to say about that. When I say that I have reliable sources that work with this and that have told me how it is going on, it is the way it is. If I can't go out and expose it for the sake of that person, it's the way it is. Done. It's not anymore. I therefore expect the Minister to provide evidence showing that I am right. I expect a record of this coming up. I assume, of course, that this will be done in connection with the legal procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221130832	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221130833	I would say that the Minister usually does that, but in this material we have received, there is not even an indication that there is an increase in activity in this area. And that is already a criminal offence, it must be in the future too, but we must not just tighten the laws because we want to do so. I have to conclude from the rapporteur's assertions that, according to unreliable sources or loose claims, it is not true that the Danish People's Party can claim the things they claim.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221130907	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221130908	I do not know what the rapporteur imagines, but the Enhedslisten must do so. I have no problem disagreeing with Enhedslisten or getting criticism of Enhedslisten. I see it as a hallmark, so I must have done something right and said something right. I'm just saying what it's like. The rapporteur can believe or not, just as I can not believe what the rapporteur says. I don't think there's anything in this bill, L 150, that's problematic. Of course, in 2, 3 or 4 years you can't have your passport renewed four to five times, so of course there isn't something wrong. It is, of course, a precious and precious document that you carry around with you. And there's fraud going on. I've been looking at a picture down from a Somali airport that there are passports that stand in stands that you can buy. This is the kind of thing the rapporteur says he does not know about. No, but that is too bad for the rapporteur. That is probably because the rapporteur does not get involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221131009	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Mads Birded. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221131023	Thank you for the floor. In the Left, we believe that it is absolutely crucial that there is a clear understanding of who is travelling in and out of Denmark. If we don't know their identity, they could be a security risk. In recent years, therefore, the government has stepped up its monitoring and security efforts in the field of aliens, including in particular: to eliminate the misuse of travel ID. We therefore believe that further austerity is needed to ensure that the authorities have the tools to tackle the problem. With this proposal it will be possible in future to refuse to issue travel documents for refugees and foreign passports to foreigners if there is a suspicion or established misuse of travel documents. We believe that this is an important control tool which can also have a preventive effect. The Left therefore supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221131114	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221131117	Does the rapporteur disagree with the fact that we are now tightening up important legislation, but that we are tightening it on a discretionary, administrative basis and not on a legal basis, nor on a basis that is evidence of the need?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221131138	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221131139	At any rate, I agree that it is important in this area that we ensure that we have so much control at the border with who comes to this country and that our control over those areas can never be strict enough. It is of course very, very important for the integrity of the state and to ensure that cross-border crime does not take up more than it does in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221131205	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221131205-2	I agree that we must have control over those who come to this country and those who cross the border. That is why I did not ask that question either. I asked the question whether the rapporteur really believes that it is okay to make an administrative and discretionary decision and a tightening of the law, and that it does so without having proof that it is needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221131228	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221131229	Well, well, it's my opinion that you should always keep a close eye on this area, and that you should always be in front of the developments that are. We know from stories in the press and elsewhere that fraud with travel documents and access to other countries by using false travel documents is important in order to get there. So we can never stay, we should say strict enough in that area. We have no interest in the fact that there can be holes in that cheese, so to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221131303	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. We move on to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221131322	Thank you. It is already a criminal offence if a person changes his or her foreign passport or convention passport, just as it is a criminal offence if a person sells his or her passport or lends it to a family member for the purpose of illegal entry. Of course it is, and it must continue to be so. The proposal we are discussing here means that persons suspected of such offences must have a waiting period of five years before they can obtain a new travel document. I understand from the bill that the additional sentence that a career will be is not imposed by a court of law, but is decided by the Foreign Affairs Council on an administrative basis. If a person who cannot renew his foreign passport or the Convention passport has particular reasons to travel, he will be able to apply for a one-time travel document, a so-called laissez passer. This requires that the person has very special reasons such as: a death in the immediate family or a particularly important journey in connection with the person's work. The issue of a laissez passer is subject to fees and leads to increased processing in the Foreigners' Authority. It cannot therefore be said that this draft law already reduces very considerable bureaucracy in the Danish immigration administration. The Enhedslisten cannot support the bill because it means that people suspected of abuse are subject to the very far-reaching additional penalty imposed by an administratively discretionary decision, which is not to be able to leave Denmark for a 5-year period. At the same time, the bill will lead to more bureaucracy in the Foreign Affairs Agency. During the committee procedure, we will, among other things, be voting in favour of the report. ask for evidence of the abuse reported by the Ministry in the legislative notes without documenting it, and ask for people's redress if the Foreigners' Board decides that they cannot get a travel document for the next 5 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221131530	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We move on to the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Joachim B. Olsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221131544	Of course, we can also support this bill, which we really think is quite uncontroversial. It is about the authorities seeing that travel documents are cheating, for example. passport. This is, of course, a major problem because it may potentially lead to people entering Denmark under false identity. This proposal then allows the authorities to refuse to issue, for example. passports or travel documents where the competent authority finds or suspects that there is an abuse. We are confident that the authorities can find out, i.e. those who sit in the field and find out these things.Some of these things are quite obvious and, of course, it is important that they have the tools needed to prevent people who have no right to enter Denmark from doing so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221131651	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221131655	I would like to know whether the Liberal Alliance would vote in favour of a proposal. Let us now say that it was a proposal in which we agreed on the content of, for example, the motion for a resolution. to impose an extra fine on people for cheating on taxes and then said: We do so administratively and estimatedly and without appeal. What, then, would the rapporteur vote for it, apart from the tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221131718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221131719	That is very hypothetical, and I also think it is a bad example. In other words, we are talking here about very specific cases where there are some authorities, for example. at a foreign embassy, and a person comes in with a passport that they can see is rigged with; they can see that things have been removed on the passport etc. Today, they do not have enough opportunity to prevent, for example, the use of drugs. will be issued a new passport. Of course, they must have that, and I think that gives itself that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221131755	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221131756	It's not that hypothetical anyway. We have some very, very talented people in tax administrations who can often see when tax fraud is being committed and could easily make an administrative decision that some who have cheated on taxes should have an extra penalty and say: My estimate is that and so. So it's not that hypothetical at all. It's just a wrong principle to work on, and it is in this case too. You should not impose an extra penalty on people, and you should not be able to impose an extra penalty on people without them being able to appeal against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221131831	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221131833	In other words, if it is legal certainty in our tax system that the rapporteur will be discussing, then we can easily take that discussion. There are plenty of things that lag on that front, and fortunately that is also something the government is doing something about. Several legal security packages have been made, and another one is also on the way. But I just think you might want to get off this high horse a little bit. Well, here we are talking about some people sitting on, for example. embassies with a passport in their hands and can see that it has been cheated, or repeatedly experience that a person's passport has been lost, then can refuse to issue a new one. And I think that makes sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221131916	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the alternative rapporteur, Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221131924	Thank you. The alternative is voting against this bill, and I think we should keep our tongues in our mouths, in relation to what is in this bill and what is in the old L 96. I do not, in fact, agree with the rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance who was just saying that this is about the fact that if you repeatedly lose your passport, the authorities cannot intervene. It was one of those things. that which was introduced with L 96, as I remember it. In other words, according to the present system, the Foreigners' Agency is entitled to refuse to issue a convention passport if the applicant has been issued with a new travel document within the last year, on the basis of its disappearance, or if compelling reasons for national security or public order so warrant. So what lies in this bill, as I understand it, is to correct me if I have understood it wrong, is to extend some provisions, i.e. with three denials, which relate to situations in which the immigration authorities suspect that the applicant has unlawfully distorted or removed parts of the travel document, or where it is suspected that the applicant has attempted to make his travel document available to a third party. So the problem with this bill is not, in fact, that you should have the opportunity to act on it if you are deliberately fucked up or if you lose your passport, but the problem is that legal certainty is fragile because you allow something to be based on suspicion. And I think that, like what Enhedslisten's rapporteur said earlier, is something that we must be very careful with here in the Danish Parliament, that is to say, to introduce legislation that is suspected or that one can judge, one can say, on the basis of suspicion. So it is not because we do not agree with the aim of including or sanctioning, of course, if passports and passports are cheated, but we cannot vote in favour simply because we believe that this legislation cannot be drafted on the basis of suspicion and because it involves some strange form of reversal of the burden of proof, because it is the applicant who has to prove that the travel document has actually been lost and that there is no cheating or abuse. So for that reason we are voting against.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221132135	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the rapporteur of the Radical Left, Mr President. Andreas Steenberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221132146	In the Radical Left, we have had a lot of doubts about how we should approach this bill, and we end up with, as in the case of previous austerity in relation to this, also supporting this bill because we recognise that it may be a problem. We also choose to recognise when a ministry says that they are experiencing problems, that then there are problems. I agree with Mr. Christian Juhl, who has said on several occasions that it has not been documented and that there is no report. That is absolutely correct. But in this situation we choose to listen to what the ministry and the board say and to take it for good. We also think it is important that there is a right of appeal for these people, so that, if you have been deprived of the possibility of obtaining a passport, you can still complain and yet have the opportunity to do so if there is no evidence that you should not be allowed to have that passport. So we want to help try to clean up and tighten up this, and that is why we choose to support the bill, although we also reserve the right to propose some changes if there are some things that appear in the committee's proceedings.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221132300	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221132303	Now a report has been mentioned several times; I do not want a report; I just want a small note that suggests that there is a problem, or maybe just a small table, and it doesn't have to fill very much for me, as long as there is something that makes it probable and doesn't confirm a suspicion that you're only doing this to say that now you have to tighten all places where it can be tightened when it's not Danes it's about. Therefore, I would like us to be as serious in our documentation here as we are in relation to other laws.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221132333	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221132334	I fully agree with that, and earlier today we have had the discussion about this so-called paradigm shift, which really seems like something where you just want to hit some who are not Danes. So I agree with that remark. I also think it is just necessary to recognise that it can be difficult to document whether people cheat, because it is typically people who say that their passports have been lost, and then you do not know where that passport has gone, so we are a little in a border country. But I wish we could take it up in committee, and we can do that together. However, we would like to support trying to do something when the authorities say that there is a challenge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221132413	Sir. Christian Juhl apostates. There will then be no further brief comments, and then we will thank the rapporteur and move on to the rapporteur for the SF, and that is Mr SF. Holger K. Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221132431	We have also had various considerations about this bill. A tightening of legislation was adopted on the misuse of passports last year, which we supported, and we can therefore say that we are a little surprised that there should be reason to make a new proposal. That is why we would like to see at least a little clearer arguments being put forward as to what the specific problem here is. We recognise that there is a challenge with regard to the misuse of passports and travel documents, there is no need to be a professor or statistician to be aware of that, and everyone who works practically on these issues knows that this is the case. I also think it is right that we take up what we did last year, as I said, but if we need the further tightening that we are talking about here, we have some doubts about it. If we can be convinced that this is necessary in relation to what was achieved last year and that there are not, if we may say so, as great legal problems as there might be, we would like to support it. So we are waiting for the committee procedure and then we will take a position after it has been discussed in committee on whether we vote yes or no to this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221132612	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Naser Khader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221132620	Thank you. The Danish society and our entire system are built around the assumption of mutual trust and respect between citizens and state, and therefore it is also an insult to the Danish community when trying to cheat the system and sell the pass. Passports are a help the state provides to people who have come here. These are people we want to help, but we must be able to demand that they do not abuse our trust. When the authorities, the system begins to become suspicious and says that there is a problem, then it is not without reason. They are fully aware of it when passports that are sent out do not end up with the recipient, but are passed on and can be abused by everyone. If we then know that this abuse is taking place, then it is our duty as politicians to respond to it and to tackle it. We must ensure that cheating in these cases is not worthwhile, and it is therefore important that we put an end to this abuse. We must show that running around with the system has consequences, and we must provide the authorities with the right tools so that they can respond to the abuse. But most importantly, we can trust that people are who they pretend to be. This proposal tackles and tightens the grip on an area where criminals have had the freedom to exploit the system, and that is why we in the Conservative People's Party can support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221132803	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Then we give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221132817	Thank you to the rapporteurs for a good reception of this bill. After all, it contains a number of amendments to the Aliens Act, which aims to further strengthen control of security efforts in the area of aliens. As you know, in recent years the government has already taken a number of important initiatives in this area, including: By amending the law in February 2018, the Government has taken a number of steps to eliminate the misuse of special travel documents and thus tighten up the existing regulations on issuing them. The purpose of the change was to combat the misuse of travel documents which could be caused by the fact that it was relatively simple for foreigners to issue new travel documents, but unfortunately we have found that it remains difficult for the authorities to combat the misuse of special travel documents for foreigners. The aim of the draft law is therefore to further tighten up the rules on the issue of special travel documents and thus also to strengthen controls in the field of aliens. Convention passports for refugees and foreign passports issued to refugees who cannot obtain a passport themselves are technically advanced and difficult to falsify. Instead, the immigration authorities are experiencing other forms of abuse or attempted misuse of special travel documents, e.g.: pages ripped out of alien passports or visa stickers and travel stamps have been attempted. Furthermore, there is an increasing tendency for foreigners with a residence permit in Denmark to indicate that they lost their passports while on holiday. In these cases, the immigration authorities may suspect that the travel document has been put up for sale or has been handed over to a family member in order to be able to enter Denmark illegally. It is already possible today to punish a foreigner who has deliberately destroyed or damaged his travel document, but, on the other hand, according to the rules in force, it is not possible to refuse to issue it, for example. of passports, in the case of abuses experienced by the immigration authorities in practice. The Government proposes, therefore, with the bill, that the Aliens' Agency be given greater opportunity to refuse to issue travel documents for refugees and foreign passports to foreigners if the Board suspects or finds that a foreigner has abused his special travel ID. It is also proposed that, in future, if the authorities find that travel documents are being misused, it should be possible for the Foreigners' Agency to block a Danish passport issued in the Central Paregister. In this way, further abuse is prevented. With these tightenings, the government once again stresses that Denmark will not accept that foreigners in this country make use of false identity or abuse Danish issued travel ID. Finally, the draft law provides for the introduction of fees for the submission of applications for laissez-passer for travel to and from Denmark. Finally, I would just like to thank you for receiving the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221133211	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221133230	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Mattias Tesfaye. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221133251	Today we are dealing with a proposal which is primarily about opening up the Danish labour market to employees outside Europe as long as they earn DKK 23,000. per month plus pension and holiday money. That's $50,000. a year. Of course, the Social Democrats cannot support this. Today we have schemes that provide access to the Danish labour market for higher-paid foreigners. They may be specialists that Danish companies need. Social democracy is happy with these arrangements. The foreigners who come on the schemes strengthen Danish economy by giving Danish companies access to skills that can be difficult or impossible to obtain at home. However, with the government's bill, the door will be opened for non-EU citizens to obtain a residence permit in Denmark as long as they can find work like this. drivers or concrete workers or one of the many other jobs where earnings can be about DKK 145. It's an hour. I can't do that. Those posts should be filled by people who are already in Denmark or, if that is not possible, by people from Europe who, with the open market, already have access to Denmark and who can move here. In addition, we are in the middle of an economic recovery in these years. This is exactly where we're gonna get the last of them. Now is the time to bring those with special needs into the labour market. That is why I do not think it is right that the bourgeois government should now abandon its own citizens, who may need a little extra help, and instead open the door to foreign countries. It is simply too comfortable and it lacks an understanding that there are still plenty of people at home looking for ordinary jobs, but also internships, senior jobs, flex jobs and much more. Many of the refugees who have come here in the last few years can easily drive a bus if they get the licence. Many long - term unemployed people, with a loving push in their backs, can well fill the positions of 145 kroner. It's an hour. First of all, that is why the Social Democrats are rejecting this proposal. In addition, the government proposes to remove the requirement that the wages of foreigners on these schemes should be paid in a Danish bank account. Of course, we cannot support that either. Similarly, we reject the proposal to open up more residence permits through the positive list, that is to say for foreigners without higher education. On the other hand, there are a number of minor adjustments to the legislation that we would very much like to support. It is primarily about removing some of the bureaucratic leg buckles that Danish companies and foreign employees meet today. This is true, for example. the simplification of the rules for researchers and students, as well as the more flexible rules for setting up in Denmark and helping companies so that they do not inadvertently employ illegal labour. These are relevant issues and good proposals, and the government knows our views on these things. That is why we are puzzled, and we therefore regret the fact that a single legislative proposal is now being tabled, in which the excellent small adjustments that can help business are being packed together in an ideological desire to open up the unskilled and skilled labour market to foreigners outside Europe. That is why we are voting against this bill and in those words we are looking forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221133559	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221133604	What does the Social Democratic Party actually have of proposals that will increase employment in Denmark, which will increase the supply of labour? Retraining is not increasing the supply of labour just so it is not mentioned. So what does the Social Democratic Party have of proposals that will increase the supply of labour?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221133627	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221133628	Our assessment is not that there is a general need to increase the supply of labour in the coming years. If you look ahead in time, the number of hands on the Danish labour market will increase by 100,000 because of the reforms that have already been adopted. What is the great challenge for the Danish economy and society is that we do not have enough qualified hands. In fact, our assessment is that there will be a surplus of unskilled people in relation to the jobs available in modern Danish economy. That is why we point to upgrading and retraining, which is one of the most important tools at all to ensure that there are qualified workers in Denmark. To the extent that this is not possible, i.e. that it cannot be dealt with by, for example, To raise people from unskilled to skilled, we believe that there should be plenty of labour for the unskilled and skilled labour market in Europe, and there is no reason to open the door to people outside Europe for those jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221133732	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221133733	If it is considered that the shortage of skilled labour is the greatest challenge, there is no more effective tool than making labour market reforms. That is many, many times more effective in terms of getting more skilled labour than making up qualifications. So I do not think that is a very good argument, or it is an expression of the fact that this issue is not really taken seriously either. We are now in a situation where actual employment exceeds structural employment. That is where it would normally be said that there is a shortage of labour. And that is so, despite the fact that, fortunately, we have adopted reforms which increase structural employment in the future. But the pressure is there, and I think you have to be a little blind for not recognizing that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221133822	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221133824	Firstly, I would like to say that the question of recruiting foreign workers should not just be about what the situation is right now, when we are in the midst of a recovery. It must also relate to what the labour situation will look like over the next many years. Here we can see, among other things. Because of the rise in retirement age, the proportion of hands in the labour market is growing and growing quite strongly in the coming years. Secondly, we have a government that has just cut 1 billion. kr. at the opportunity of unemployed Danes to take an education while they are at home on unemployment benefits. I simply cannot believe that with one hand the opportunity for unemployed Danes to train and with the other hand to open the door to people coming here from outside Europe is being reduced. I do not think that is fair to the people who are staying in the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221133906	Thank you. Then it's mr. Mads Birded, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221133908	I understand from an article in the Stock Exchange that the Social Democrats were interested in this proposal being divided so that there were parts of the proposal that we could vote through with the support of the Social Democrats. After all, I have taken part in the negotiations, and I shall not quote anything from the negotiations directly, but just say that it is not quite clear to me how the Social Democrats would then make that cut. Can the Social Democratic Party and Mr. Mattias Tesfaye doesn't make us all a little cleverer on which parts of the bill the Social Democrats would like to vote in favour?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221133948	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221133949	Thank you. I mentioned a few suggestions in my introductory speech to the rapporteur. I could also mention the fast track system, where I think we are punishing inappropriately and also too many companies, so they need to be quarantined in order to be able to use the fast track system. In fact, we think that these are good proposals, but we do not want to extend access to the fast track system so that companies with between 5 and 20 employees can make use of it. We think that the border is in an excellent place now, so that it is only companies with more than 20 employees. That's how I could work my way through the entire bill. I guess that's why we have negotiations at Christiansborg. That's why I can't believe the government interrupted those negotiations. After all, there are several of the things in this bill that we can support.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221134034	Then it's mr. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221134035	But then I think that the Social Democrats should make such a positive list of what they are in favour of in the draft law, so that we can adopt more or less the parts of the bill for which the Social Democrats are in favour. That's nice to hear if there's support for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221134049	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221134050	Now, of course, it is going to be a little backwards, because we had been called for negotiations which the government interrupted before they really got off the ground. But if what the rapporteur of the Left is saying here is that the government has an interest in adopting the things that are actually majority in favour, then I just think that the government should call for new negotiations. Then we will put forward what we support. Moreover, we have done so both in public and in letters to the government. On every occasion, we have supported what is at stake in removing bureaucratic leg buckles.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221134122	Then it's mr. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221134124	Thank you. After all, there is a difference between the social democracy in opposition and the social democracy in government. Last time the Social Democracy was in government, an agreement was made on international recruitment, and there was, in fact, a great deal of concern about securing labour for companies. After all, it was in a situation where the need for labour was less than it is today. Now we are in a situation where companies are even more in need of labour, and that is what the Social Democrats will say: we are not touching anything, we are not doing anything, we have no problem with labour shortages, because in ten years' time there will be a surplus of labour. That is what the rapporteur said a moment ago. I just have to ask: what is the difference between getting someone from Australia here on fixed terms to work or getting someone from Spain here? What is the opposition of the Social Democrats to the fact that someone from Australia could come here and contribute to increased growth? I haven't quite understood what this is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221134226	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221134227	Well, it's just wrong when Mr. Hans Andersen says that social democracy means something in government and something else after that. Our wishes are exactly the same: to ensure that people coming from outside Europe can come here if it is on some conditions where they ensure some competences that we are not able to give Danish companies ourselves. That is why we do not object to people coming from Australia on the current arrangements. There are more foreigners in the Danish labour market than ever before and they strengthen Danish economy. That's good, and we appreciate it. What this bill is about is opening up new parts of the labour market: large parts of the unskilled and skilled labour market for people from outside Europe. We do not think that is fair. We think it should be the case that if buses are to be driven and paved in Denmark, we can do so with people who already live in Denmark. There's plenty of people on transfer income. And if it should happen that it is not possible, then we have the whole European labour market. There is no need for us to get people from China to Denmark to drive a bus.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221134327	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221134329	Now it was, in fact, a question of whether we should have someone from Australia here and not from China. The question is, of course, a professional from Australia who can contribute to growth. What is the problem with the fact that he or she comes here, otherwise in order? The Social Democrats fail to say that if you come here from the rest of Europe, you can get into the country and work and not always under the conditions we want. You can do that, but if you come from Australia and according to the arrangements we want to adopt, then you come in and work under orderly conditions. I don't understand why the resistance has to be so big.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221134411	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221134412	It's not that complicated. The social democracy sees it as such that as long as there are young people looking for a carpenter's apprenticeship, and as long as there are adults who would like to be in adult education as carpenter, and as long as there are unemployed carpenters in Denmark, there is no reason to fly carpenter's opponents from Australia. I think that's pretty simple.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221134434	Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221134436	Thank you. The rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Hans Andersen, asks what is wrong with an Australian coming to Denmark to do something and contribute to society. Surely there is nothing wrong with an Australian coming to Denmark if you just comply with the rules and comply with the limit of 418,000 DKK. Hans Andersen fetch all the Australians to Denmark he wants. Then there's nothing wrong with it. And sir. Hans Andersen himself says that these are cases in which all the rules are respected. But is it not true that you can bring all those from Australia here, you want, as long as you keep the limit and observe the rules that are there?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221134523	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221134524	Yeah, I think that's a very reasonable interpretation. What we are discussing here is not whether Australians can come to Denmark; what we are discussing is which parts of the Danish labour market should be open to people coming from outside Europe. Today we have some arrangements which, according to the Social Democratic Party, work very well and which we have helped to establish together with SF, Enhedslisten and Dansk Folkeparti, and there we have set an amount limit which is approx. 425,000 kroner. a year, and we see no reason why it should be reduced to 145 kroner. There are plenty of people in this country who can do those jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221134556	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221134557	I agree with that, because there is no indication that there are any obstacles to obtaining labour from third countries, the European Union or anywhere else. We can also see from the figures that have come that there has been an increase in the number of foreigners working in Denmark, but there has also been an increase in the number of Danes who have entered jobs. On the contrary, if you just open up the way the government wants, it will be harder to get Danes to take those jobs to 145, 150 or 170 DKK. It's an hour. That is what makes it necessary to take care of the proposal to lower the threshold that the government is making.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221134638	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221134639	Yes, I very much agree with that, and I also hope that if we find ourselves in a situation where there is a shortage of skilled people, and I would like to acknowledge that we are now in the process of creating Danish companies' desire to create apprenticeships and their willingness to raise some adult Danes from unskilled to skilled workers. I would also like to see a government which actually wanted to support it financially, for example. to strengthen the adult learning system and the other policy measures we take to ensure that the people who already live here have the qualifications that the labour market requires. I think it is too convenient just to say: then we will open the door to people from outside Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221134716	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall now proceed to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Martin Henriksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221134724	Thank you. The Danish People's Party cannot support the bill • We actually think it is a really bad bill. After all, the bill will mean that at a time when there are actually a lot of foreigners coming to Denmark to work in the sense of the Danish People's Party: too many It's like if people just come here to take a job, it's just per. definition well. This is an expression of an alien policy which is too relaxed in the view of the Danish People's Party. In our view, there is plenty of labour available to companies, and you can also look at some figures that have come out today, that despite the fact that a majority in this Parliament has actually tightened the rules for foreign labour, so that you have to meet a little more demands and give a decent, a higher salary etc., there are actually ongoing foreigners coming to Denmark to work. So while in the public debate in here we have discussed how difficult it is for companies to obtain foreign labour, more foreign labour has actually come to Denmark during that period, which is paradoxical, but indeed basically shows that it is a myth. So we have no need to support this bill by the Danish People's Party. We think it is very good that we have seen for a period of time that we have actually tightened up the rules for foreign labour that more Danes have actually entered employment. One might be tempted to think that it is then the expression that it may have become more attractive for companies to hire some of the unemployed Danes and get them to work than it is to get foreigners from outside. In spite of this, however, more foreigners have actually come to Denmark to work. On the contrary, we think that in some areas we need to go in and look at whether the rules are too relaxed in relation to foreign labour. After all, the government proposed abolishing the requirement for a Danish bank account. We think it should be extended, so it is even more groups, because if you come here to Denmark as a foreigner to work, it is fair that the salary is paid to a Danish bank account, that is how it is in the system of amounts, and that is how it should be in other schemes as well. Because if it is paid out to a Danish bank account, we will have better opportunities to check that you actually pay the salary you have to pay. If it is paid out to a bank account in India or elsewhere, it goes without saying that it is harder for the Danish authorities to check whether the salary is actually correct. As Mr. Mattias Tesfaye also mentioned, we from the Danish People's Party have, in connection with the debates that have taken place in the past, before Christmas and New Year, with the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration and also externally in the media, explained what we think about the individual points, and our position has not actually changed. There may be a few elements, some minor adjustments that may be okay, but overall we cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221135018	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221135022	In other words, employment is historically high. Never before have there been so many Danes in employment as there are now, and it is in a situation where, as the rapporteur also said, never before have there been so many foreigners in Denmark to work as they do now. It is important that we focus on those who come to work. Since eastward enlargement in 2004, many people from Eastern Europe have come to work here, and that is not something that has made Danes unemployed. That is the logic that is fundamentally wrong: the logic that is about the fact that there are a certain number of jobs in Denmark, and if someone comes here to work, they take some jobs from others. I mean, the labour market doesn't work that way. I think that is such a large part of DF's argument here, and that is the logic behind the argument, and it is not true. Well, it just isn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221135126	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221135127	I have no objection to recognising that there is of course a development in the Danish labour market and that new jobs are also being created on an ongoing basis. Therefore, in certain situations there may also be a need to bring foreign workers to Denmark, and then we can see that companies do so on a large scale. Then the government parties want even more to come to Denmark to work, and we do not think so in the Danish People's Party. Well, we don't think we can just keep importing foreign labour into Denmark. There must also be some sort of upper limit somewhere. That is not the case for the Liberal Alliance, where it is all about the fact that if there is a job and the company wants to hire a foreigner, I must understand it, as a starting point, just be allowed to do so. There, too, we think there are some other considerations to consider. There is one consideration to be given to Danish employees, and there is one consideration to be given to how much immigration we want to Denmark as a whole. And we just look at this differently, the Danish People's Party and the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221135227	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221135229	But the rapporteur takes the view that if we were to adopt what is here, there would be hundreds of thousands, but that is not the case. I just want to say that when we now find that the fact that people are coming here does not mean in the real world that Danes are losing their jobs there is research that shows that Danes are actually moving up the pay chain when people come here from outside to work I do not understand that scepticism. It is also the case that foreigners who come here to work are holding hands during Danish jobs. So, there are Danes who are in work because companies can get the manpower they need. So I really do not see that the Danes are being widely serviced by preventing foreign labour from coming to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221135321	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221135322	There are also Danes who find it difficult to get a job because there is so much foreign labour. Now Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, that it is not the case that you want to open up hundreds of thousands of foreigners who come to Denmark to get to work. As far as I remember, it is over 200,000 foreigners who already work here today, and that is well over 100,000. Then Mr. Joachim B. Olsen and the government parties have even more. You just have to keep importing foreign labour. We do not think so in the Danish People's Party. We think it is okay that in certain situations companies can pick up foreign labour, but we also think there should be a balance in it. And we also think, on the one hand, that we should take account of the Danish labour market, Danish employees, the wage level in Denmark, which must be an acceptable level, the working conditions, which must be fair, they must be acceptable, they must be in order; on the other hand, that there is a consideration to take into account the cohesion of Danish society. And it also means something for the cohesion of Danish society if we continue to import a lot of people who have a different culture than the majority in Denmark have. It means something, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221135417	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Mads Birded. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221135429	Thank you for the floor. With a record low unemployment, several Danish companies have long sought better opportunities to attract foreign labour. In addition to creating unnecessary barriers for business, the current rules do not reflect the current needs of companies. We in the Left want to do something about this. Therefore, with this bill, we are putting in place to make it easier and less bureaucratic for Danish companies to recruit foreign workers. It has been said that the bill will lead to a weakening of Danish pay and working conditions, because we want to reduce the amount scheme to DKK 350,000. Of course, the employment of foreign workers must be carried out under orderly conditions, so that Danish and foreign workers compete on equal terms. With a reduction in the amount scheme to an annual salary of DKK 350,000. Secondly, some have claimed that the recruitment of foreign workers is at the expense of Danish jobs. It doesn't work that way. Workplaces breed jobs. On the other hand, bottlenecks cost jobs. If you have a company with 150 employees and want to extend it to 200 employees and cannot do so because the workforce does not exist, you risk moving the workforce and the workplace out of the country. On the other hand, if they are hired, both foreign labour and Danish labour will be employed. Jobs breed more jobs for others, and all Danes and those who come here contribute to this, and they contribute to our common welfare. Of course, we must also ensure that the Danish workforce is trained. Foreign labour does not solve the problem alone. But we have to recognise that the challenges facing companies cannot be solved alone by upgrading Danes and certainly not here and now the challenge of Danish labour. We are working in the Left for a policy of aliens walking on two feet, as we say. On the one hand, we want to look after Denmark and pursue a strict immigration policy, and on the other hand we want to help Danish companies access the skilled labour they demand. The main road to Denmark must be through work and education, not through family reunification and asylum. That is a very important distinction. Against this background, we in the Left fully support the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221135657	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221135701	Thank you. When the Left and the Government argue that there should be access to more foreign labour and that it should simply be easier to import foreign labour into Denmark, it is pointed out that Danish Industry, Danish Business etc. say that we need more labour. Thinks sir. Mads Fuglede ever that you get an employer's organization to say that it would be nice if the job offer were a little smaller? Thinks sir. Mads Birded ever that an employer's organization would say that? Did Mr. Mads Fuglede ever heard someone from Danish Industry say that now there is plenty of labor, we don't need any more foreign labor, we can take a break? Even in those periods when the economy has not gone so well, there have been people from Danish Industry out saying: Do you know what, dear politicians inside Christiansborg, now we don't need any more foreign labour, you can take it a little slow with it? Did Mr. Mads Birds ever heard that?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221135752	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221135754	No, I've never heard that. And I recognise that an increase in the supply of labour will always be in their interests from the point of view of industry. What we are discussing today is something that happens in this context, that we have record low unemployment, and we have the opportunity to increase our common welfare through a larger pool of taxes on wage work that can make us all richer as citizens of a society that can pay for the fine-meshed welfare state we have. That is the situation we are in now. If we had been in a situation where there had been a great deal of unemployment at home, we would never have tabled this bill, and we would not have supported it either, despite what has been said in the Danish Industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221135840	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221135841	When Danish Industry asks for more foreign labour, I always think that the Left welcomes the announcement from Danish Industry. I cannot recall that during a period when the Danish economy has gone badly, the Left has said that now we need to tighten up a little on foreign labour. Of course, sir. Mads Birds can refresh my memory at that point. But I can't remember. Therefore, it is as if if Danish Industry says they want more foreign labour, and they do so on a regular basis, there is only one answer from the Left and the other governing parties, and that is: Yes, it sounds like a very good idea. But isn't there some upper limit for the Left? When there are already over 200,000 foreigners working in Denmark, as I know is actually a record number, are we not reaching an upper limit on how many foreigners we can also absorb in the Danish labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221135931	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221135932	We finance everything that is public Denmark, more or less with taxes on wage work. So the more jobs we create, the better conditions we have for our business, the more welfare we get, the better a society we are. Then there is something about the cohesion force, where I would very much like to come to Mr. Martin Henriksen in a meeting. This is just something I think we should see more in the context of our refugee policy and keeping track of the asylum influx to Denmark, rather than what is about people who can and will come to the Danish labour market to make us all richer. These are two different debates that we must be careful not to confuse.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221140009	Then it's mr. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221140012	There are, of course, some people who are almost always in work, whether there is a boom or a recession. Then there are also a lot of our fellow citizens who sit at the top of the bench when light notes are being handed out in recessions and who, in turn, have the opportunity to enter the labour market and earn their own money when things are going well. That is also why I believe that jobs and growth are the best social policy possible. Those people were able to enter the labour market very easily in the past when there was a recovery because there was only the labour force present in Denmark. Then people actually got flex jobs and senior jobs and internships, and people who might need a little extra support and could not produce quite at the same level as everyone else also became part of the working community. My experience of the Danish labour market now is that although we are in the middle of a boom, they find it difficult to get a hold of them properly, among other things. because it is much easier to call abroad and then just hire someone who can produce by a hundred ten percent per hour from the first day. Is it not rather antisocial that the Left is so focused on opening the door to the rest of the world instead of telling employers that now they must also help some of those who are here and who now have the chance to get in and bite their way?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221140123	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221140124	I agree with Mr. Mattias Tesfaye in that it is very, very important that we lift up the forces of Danish society that can gain access to the labour market and get them up-qualified so that they can enter. For us it is not a either-or, it is a both-and-a-boat. We must both become richer and wiser with foreign labour, and we must make sure that we get companies to take the social responsibility, it is to make apprenticeships and other things that enable underqualified Danish labour to fit into the Danish labour market. It has to be a boat-and-a-boat.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221140204	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221140207	When we see in the Social Democratic Party that there is a reduction in the amount of money the Danish vocational schools get to train new skilled workers, and we see that the Danish unemployed have reduced their ability to train while they go unemployed, and we see that the government is cutting back on the joint efforts of the authorities to control Danish wage and working conditions in the joint government's efforts to combat social dumping - we stand and look at it while we see a government that wants to open up further to the Danish labour market. But what I do not understand is how the Left can back it up.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221140242	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221140245	Now I think we are witnessing some juggling with figures in a way that is somewhat contrary to reality. The fact that less money is spent on these student places is also due to the fact that there are fewer pupils out there. That is the net amount we are talking about. We're not talking about the sum per. head.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221140307	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221140313	I would say that I have spent quite many years in a local 3F trade union and at times listened to our local employers. And they have had some sort of campaign going on about every two to three years, where they have said: we cannot get the labour we would like. So, within 24-48 hours, we have come along with some of our unemployed colleagues and have said: there are at least three, when can they start? Then they have every No, it's not right now we need them. After all, it supports a little what the DF's rapporteur said before, that there is in fact a cry that there must always be plenty of labour that can then push wages. If that is what the rapporteur of the Left thinks should be taken into account, then I do not think we should take that into account. If there really was a need for labour and we could do it locally, then I think we should settle for it and take it first. Does the rapporteur not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221140413	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221140416	After all, there is nothing in this proposal that wants to undermine the conditions of employment and the wage framework agreed by the social partners on the Danish labour market. I think it's a weird question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221140427	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221140430	The rapporteur does, does he? But that is really what is in the interests of employers. And when they are not talking about a shortage of labour, but a lack of labour supply, just as LA does, it is because they know that labour supply in a certain size all other things equally pushes wages. The second question is, if the previous question was a strange one, which was not to be answered by the rapporteur of the Left: when we have up to 8 000 young people who are looking for an internship with an employer, is it not time that we put pressure on the employers and say: you have a social responsibility if they are to be trained here, because it is you who will need them in 3-4 years' time?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221140506	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221140508	Yes, I fully agree with that. We must put as much pressure as we possibly can on the business community so that there are enough apprenticeships and internships so that they lift that part of their responsibilities. It is a huge problem that there is still such a huge backlog on it. That should not be the reason why we are closing the door to something that makes us all richer. It has to be a boat-and, not a either-or.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221140530	Then it's mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221140541	Thank you. I really think it is quite interesting to listen to this because the rapporteur says that for the Left and the government it is a boat and that it is important to lift everyone and that you want to upgrade Danish employees. I just have to say that this is something quite different that is happening. In other words, what we do in this way means that we have 100,000 unemployed, we have thousands of young people who go and do nothing and have no education, we have 18%. unemployed flex-jobs. We have plenty of people out there who can and will, if they get a chance, but they just don't get that chance because we have a government that just wants some foreign labour in and doesn't give them a chance here. Now I can ask another question. In fact, this government has just saved a billion dollars. kr. On activation and upgrading of people on cash benefits. One billion has simply been saved. kr., so these people don't have the opportunity to get upskills... these people who really should be able to take those jobs. Does it not seem very, very strange that we should stand and listen to the fact that we have a government that says boats and, on the one hand, saves Danish employees and, on the other hand, wants foreign labour? Doesn't that seem weird?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221140638	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221140642	Now, it should be borne in mind that this bill has not been adopted and has not been opened up to foreign workers to the extent that we would like. So it's a little strange to have to hear that the bill here is the starting point for something acting as a pressure on the Danes who might enter the labour market. They won't come in, even though this bill hasn't been passed. So there is something there that is not really logical.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221140706	Then it's mr. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221140709	No, but then the rapporteur replied that one thing is that this bill has not been adopted, but the government must obviously mean it, because they want the bill to be adopted otherwise we would probably not have it in the Chamber. The government believes that it is okay to open up foreign labour while saving on training, saving on activation for cash benefits recipients, doing nothing about the fact that there is 18%. unemployed flex-jobs. It may not get through, but it's something the government thinks. I think it is interesting that this is actually the concession I receive from the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221140736	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221140739	The government believes jobs breed jobs. So if you create jobs, it drags others into the labour market. A skilled workforce will create more jobs, where some of the Danes who find it difficult to enter the labour market will have easier access to the labour market. So by adopting this we all help, both our common welfare, the Danes who have difficulty entering the labour market, and foreigners who want to contribute to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221140804	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221140817	Now the government is again trying to get through making it easier to import foreign labour. However, the proposal to relax the requirements for the recruitment of agricultural practitioners has been dropped, and that was also one of the really bad ones, so thank you for that. There are proposals that we can support and proposals that we cannot accept under any circumstances. We support the proposal for a relaxation for foreign researchers and PhD students, the proposal for a establishment card and the proposal for a residence permit for foreign doctors, dentists and nurses. We support the possibility of applying for a residence permit even if the alien is not legally resident in Denmark at the time of application. And we say yes to make it easier for artists and athletes and special specialists to take a secondary job in the same profession. We say yes to improving the system for companies on the basis of residence of employed foreigners so that employers do not inadvertently break the law. It is also very good to tighten the penalties for companies employing foreigners in violation of the law. And we would like to introduce chain liability so that the main companies can be held liable for infringements of law by subcontractors. But we see no reason to sharpen the penalties against people who help a foreigner to stay in this country. It can be very expensive in advance for an offence committed solely to help a person who has fled from inhumane treatment in his country, but also from inhumane treatment in a refugee centre. Nor can we accept the weakening of the self-reliance requirement, which is now being reduced to the same level as the integration benefit. The self-reliance requirement shall not be lower than the level of cash benefits. We must once again reject the proposal to modernise the positive list. It is opening a barn gate to imports of labour without proof that there is a shortage of it. We therefore reject the proposal that more companies can use the so-called fast track system and the proposal that a residence permit for a job of less than 37 hours can be obtained. The requirement for a Danish bank account must be maintained. We must be guaranteed that the required salary is paid. The practical problems of creating an account quickly need to be solved by other means. Once again, we must reject the proposal for a country-specific system of amounts with a limit of DKK 76,000. lower on an annual basis than that in force. If the limit is to meet the stated objective of attracting highly qualified labour, it must be increased by DKK 100,000.; then it will correspond to the average of the two lowest paid groups of highly qualified workers in Denmark, namely IT specialists and engineers. We hear time and time again that the high limit is a barrier to attracting highly qualified foreign labour. I do not know whether to laugh or cry about that comment. Can we not soon get just one example of a foreign worker saying no to a job in Denmark because the salary is too high? No, right? That argument clearly shows what this is all about. Employers and government are interested in foreign labour only if it is cheap and if it can be used to press wages. The Ministry of Finance has granted it in a reply to Enhedslisten. It stated, and this is a quote: In the present situation, the import of labour in the short term can help to avoid unsustainable wage increases. We thank the Ministry for the clear answer. That is what it is all about: pressing wages. In general, there is no shortage of labour in Denmark. There are plenty of unemployed people to take and young people looking for an internship, and there is plenty of opportunity to pick up labour inside and outside the EU with the current rules. Yet employers are shouting for more labour. But as 3F has documented time and time again, those who shout the loudest have usually not looked up the jobs or turned to the job center or the union. And if they get an applicant, yes, then they don't need any anyway. Foreign workers are welcome in this country if there is evidence of a shortage of their labour and employment is on contractual terms. We have made some simple and inexpensive proposals to ensure that these conditions are met, and there are three: 1) All companies must be obliged to look up the job vacancies on Jobnet and apply to the job centre or to the union before they take out labour from outside. (2) The employment contract must be approved by the trade union having the agreement and (3) the regional labour market councils should decide whether there is a real shortage of labour in the local area. These are simple, unbureaucratic and cheap proposals, unlike the bill that will be quite expensive for the Danish working class if it is implemented in its entirety. The unitary list shall vote against unless the government withdraws the inedible elements from the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221141323	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We move on to the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Joachim B. Olsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221141333	Thank you. Prosperity is an important part of the foundation for the Danes to live good lives, that we can have high quality public service, and prosperity comes basically from two things: how much work is being done in a society and how productive we are when we work. With this proposal, the government will make it easier for foreign workers to come to Denmark, because it is good for the Danish economy, and it is also good for the Danes that people come here to work. It simply contributes to Danish prosperity and thus to Danish well-being. It is simple to finance public consumption and public services. Since 2004, a lot of people have come to Denmark to work. A lot of people have come from Eastern Europe. Thank you very much for coming here. They have helped make Denmark a more rich and prosperous country. They have held hands under thousands of Danish jobs. We find it incomprehensible that there can be no majority in the Folketing in order to adopt a proposal which will make it easier for companies to obtain the labour they need. The logic behind saying no seems to be that it should be some competition for Danish employees that people come here to work. It may also seem intuitively right to a great many people that it should be so, but it does not. The labour market is not such a game of chairs where there are a certain number of jobs, and if there are more people coming to the country, there are just others being pushed out. It doesn't work that way. Things adapt to each other. So the number of jobs adapts to the supply of labour and vice versa, if that is available, and that is the problem right now. Right now we are in a situation where there is a shortage of labour. We are approaching a situation like the one we saw in 2006. We're not there yet, but we're not going there. That's the point. That is why it is a matter of due diligence, that is to say, intervention before a situation arises where there are major capacity problems in the labour market, where there are unsustainable wage increases that exceed productivity and lower competitiveness. Because then what happens? Yes, so sooner or later it leads to a new adjustment, i.e.. higher unemployment, and who is hit by it? It mainly hits those at the bottom of the pay scale. That nuance seems to me to be completely lacking on the left. Then I am surprised that the extreme left, who also does not want to help people come to Denmark to work, who will not adopt this proposal, which will mean that people come here to work, is also opposed to restricting the admission of refugees, which, we must just note, is not a good business for Danish society and does not work. So you want people to come here who are not working to a large extent, but you want to prevent people coming here who are actually coming to work. That is a logic that we do not understand. We think it is a pity that there is probably no majority for this whole proposal. I think it is incomprehensible, but that is the way it must be. Now we've made our position clear. We are open to making it easier for people to come here to work. We think that is common sense. It will be good for the Danes and it will be good for the Danish economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221141752	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221141755	I put forward three small, unbureaucratic proposals on how we could clarify which of us was right about this, about whether there is a shortage of labour, for example. that employers should always be obliged to look up jobs at Jobnet and contact the job centre and the union before they could afford to say that they could not get their labour. Why is it not a basic requirement that we make to employers to find out what the facts are? My experience of 20 years in the union is that every time there is talk of a shortage of labour and we come and supply labour, even highly skilled labour, it is not needed. It's just a talk. Will the rapporteur help to introduce these kinds of rules so that we can find out what is bogus and what is the facts in all this talk about labour shortages?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221141844	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221141846	Well, there's no need for that. We know a great deal about whether there is a shortage of labour in Denmark, and there we can only note that it is a large-scale enterprise. It is implicit that there should be such a kind of discrimination against Danes on the Danish labour market, but that Danish companies should somehow discriminate against Danes is not true. That is simply wrong. And again, Enhedslisten's argument rests on a completely misguided logic that there should be a certain number of jobs on the Danish labour market, and if people come here, someone is being pushed into an unemployment queue. It's not like that. And you just have to look into the real world, and then you'll see that since 2004 a lot of people have come here. What is it? About 200,000 foreigners have come here. Unemployment is now low in Denmark. Has this meant lower wages? No, it hasn't meant lower wages. Wages have increased in all sectors, including unskilled workers. So you hurt the people you say you care about, and I think that's too bad.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221141959	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221142003	It doesn't change the fact that I have my experience, practical experience from the real world, from life, for 20 years on this issue. With regard to the people who are unemployed today: how do they get a job from watching others come in and take the job they might have got when they have qualifications? Why do they have to be passed over? Why should we not try to get those who have gone to Denmark for a very long time without having had a chance at the jobs I know? Why do you take a labour force that you can discipline and keep down in salary much easier, instead of taking 3F's good and talented people or the good and talented people of the blacksmiths or the good and talented people of the academics? Is it perhaps because they have a clear professional demand for proper pay and proper working conditions?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221142048	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221142051	So, the reality is that the degree of organisation, for example. The DA area is as high for foreigners as it is for Danes. So it is simply not true that this is the case, as Mr. Christian Juhl is trying to convince us that it does. It just isn't. Sir. Christian Juhl cannot really explain why this has been the case in the real world, because wages have increased and unemployment has fallen over the last 14 years, when a great many foreigners, mainly from Europe, have come to work in Denmark. This has been a situation on which we have all won.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221142138	Then it's mr. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221142145	I choose to assume that the Liberal Alliance is of course not in favour of free immigration, nor of free labour immigration. There must therefore be some kind of limit, which the Liberal Alliance also supports on some kind of limit. Now the government is proposing this $350,000, and I've previously heard the Liberal Alliance say some other numbers. What exactly is the party's policy? Should it be minimum at the level of agreement, or should it be so that you can support yourself, or is that what the government is proposing?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221142213	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221142216	But it is quite correct that we are in favour of a limit. I mean, we've said 220,000 kroner. Well, as soon as you're over $200,000, you're a net contributor to Danish society. I cannot understand why we should keep people out who come here to contribute and who have to travel again the moment they have no job. Well, I just don't understand. We are all in favour of not bringing people here who are being held up by others. We're gonna keep that down. That is why we are in favour of strict immigration policy, but we are in favour of welcoming people who want this society and who contribute. And they make Denmark a richer place, and they make us all richer. I do not quite understand the logic of social democracy. Because you want to be involved in some things that will also mean that more people will come and work, but that is not a problem. I do not think the Social Democrats are rigorous in their arguments. The things that I sense the Social Democratic Party would like to participate in will also mean that there will be more, because it will be easier to get here. And there will be some who will choose Denmark instead of other countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221142332	Then it's mr. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221142335	There is no reason to wonder about the policy of social democracy. It is that the current rules are quite excellent: DKr 425,000. a year. This means that the high-paid Danish labour market is open to people outside Europe, but that ordinary skilled and unskilled work is secondary in Europe to people who primarily live in Denmark. What I can then understand there is disagreement about between the Social Democratic Party and the Liberal Alliance are people who earn between DKK 220,000. and 425,000 kroner. However, this is a fairly large part of the Danish labour market on which we disagree, and that is why I would like to ask the Liberal Alliance whether it is really the policy of the Liberal Alliance that anyone who can get a job for DKK 220,000. in Denmark, must have a work and residence permit in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221142416	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221142419	I do not see why it should be the case that you should not be allowed to come here if you can support yourself. You have a contract with an employer before you come here and you have to leave if that contract is terminated. I simply cannot understand that. I could understand it if it were so that one could say that it would mean higher unemployment among the Danes, but one cannot. The labour market does not work that way. So, yes, we're open to people coming here. And then you can try to draw some picture that it will mean that there will be 100,000 here, but it won't. It is perhaps 10,000-15,000 who will come here perhaps a little more, and so what? There are 3 million in employment in Denmark. So yes, we think that Denmark should be open to people who want Denmark, to people who contribute and support themselves and work. That is our basic position.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221142514	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and move on to the alternative rapporteur, and that is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221142522	Thank you. We can start by building on the fact that there is something paradoxical about the fact that we are dealing with this bill and then having the debate this morning on L 140, which has just been voted through today. Because with that legislation there will of course be some workers who can no longer do their jobs here in Denmark because they are now potentially being thrown home. I think that Danish Industry has figured out that there are 8,000 jobs that are potentially going to be unemployed. So it was just another gook in the nut for L 140. However, in relation to what we are dealing with here, it is no secret that the alternative has always been positive about lowering the threshold. We voted against when the limit was raised, and in our optics there is certainly nothing wrong with bringing labour to Denmark when we have jobs, one can say that there is no occupation. So we're kind of positive about this bill. There's something in the bill that we're not so happy about, and that's that this limit is country-specific. Well, somewhere it's kind of funny that we can only get labour to Denmark from those countries that meet the criteria for this country-specific border. Why should one not be an equally capable employee if one came from a country other than one of the countries that met the criteria? And it also tends some form of discrimination in relation to what kind of people we want to work with Denmark. If you are one of those who have the right skills and who can take the jobs that are available and that employers want, then it is not really that important for us which country you come from. But that is the main criticism we have. We are positive about foreign labour. We have no problem with lowering the limit on the amount, which is why we are also in favour of the legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221142732	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and move on to the Radical Left rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Rasmus Helveg Petersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221142747	Thank you. After all, recruitment problems are beginning in the companies in the country today. I have personally spoken to both business owners and employers' organisations asking for a more relaxed set of rules to facilitate the recruitment of foreign workers. The risk of not making it easier to recruit is that we are stifling the current recovery in bottleneck problems. The risk of not doing this by lowering the threshold is that companies move production to where they can get their labour. We make money from foreign labor, we lose money from vacant positions. The Radical Left can support the proposed changes. We would have liked to have seen a package of even more far-reaching proposals. I do not even think that the proposal here is ambitious enough. But we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221142838	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221142843	I would like the Radical Left to elaborate a little on who is making money on such a proposal as this. I can see that employers can make money by being able to push wages. But as long as there are 100,000 unemployed, as long as there are 8,000 apprentices, who in vain, every single day, from getting up in the morning, until they go to bed in the evening, are looking for a job in Denmark • they even offer to go on training and qualify if they have an opportunity at all • what is the idea? I can only see one group that can enrich itself on this, and it is the employers who can push the salary by getting extra labour in.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221142918	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221142921	Thank you to the questioner. We know, of course, that foreign workers who come to Denmark and have a job pay taxes and thus contribute positively to society. If we assume that it is true what the employers' organisations and the business owners I have talked to say, namely that they have vacant jobs because they cannot provide labour, then I would say that providing them with the workforce together will make society richer because there will be more economic activity in companies and greater tax payments.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221142947	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221142950	Just a moment ago, I told you about my experience of 20 years in the union and the a-box. And at the same time I told you that there are about 8,000 young people looking in vain for an apprenticeship, that is, a place where they could qualify. Is it not a quite reasonable basic requirement from society to say that employers must help to qualify young people who have to work in their businesses? Is it just that, as an employer, you can demand in and say: if the labour force in Denmark is not good enough, then I should be allowed to just draw it here from other countries? Surely there must be some limit and decency on the part of employers before such things are opened up.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221143028	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221143031	Thank you. I agree, of course, with the intention that there is a strong responsibility in the workplace to be involved in the training of workers. And the latest company owner I've been talking to gradually spent a lot of his time on the whole package. That is to say, try to recruit and try to train and have trainees etc. The entire recruitment was an increasing part of this manager's time. And it was both. I mean, it wasn't just a job, it wasn't, it wasn't, it wasn't, it wasn't, it wasn't, it wasn't, it wasn't, it wasn't, it wasn't, it wasn't, it wasn't, it wasn't, it wasn't, it wasn't, it wasn't, it wasn't. From the outside, which was difficult because of the rules, but certainly also to train his own labour from home. So I don't see a contradiction in this. I think we should have both things in play.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221143104	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the SF's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221143115	It has to be said that there is such a certain contempt for the death of a government that makes a bill, knowing that you have not and in this context it is actually relevant to say that a Chineseman has the chance to get it adopted. And in the spring that lies ahead of us, the government will need a great deal of contempt for its death. See, that was so deathly contempt. However, I also think that the draft law is contempt in general for those companies that need modernisation and reform of the existing law. I myself have offered at meetings of the Ministry that SF would also like to participate in implementing several of the government's proposals. As I remember just now, it was in the vicinity of half of the proposals that we could support. But instead of accepting the extended hands from among others. The SF and the Socialists and, in a pragmatic way, countries, an agreement to the benefit of the companies, and then the Minister was just angry and impossible: no, no, it could not be all, so it could also be of no consequence. And that's why we have this sloppy thing today, where the minister just says with a shoulder pull and a cowardly hand movement: that's no good, and that's no good either. And then you go to the Chamber with something that cannot be adopted at all. The SF is opposed to the draft law as it stands, because we should not open the front door to social dumping. Is the government saying you want to attract highly qualified labour? What, then, is the significance of reducing the threshold? So, what kind of mechanism is it that lower wages will probably make people apply to Denmark? That doesn't make any sense at all. Then you might ask: is the limit too high? There I can quote from a speech today by the chairman of HK Private, who says: The limit for foreign labour is today DKr 230,000. lower than the average salary of a Danish IT specialist. If Danish IT companies just wanted to pay Danish wages, they can easily pick up specialists without a lower limit. Then the limit must be adjusted, yes, then it must be in the upward direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221143339	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no brief comments and we shall move on to the next rapporteur, Mr President. Naser Khader from Conservatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221143352	Thank you. It's going well in Denmark. Many are in work, businesses are doing well, and this means that we now have a shortage of skilled labour in a large number of areas. That is why it is important for us to be able to attract skilled staff from other countries to fill these important posts. These are positions such as doctors, professors, chefs and many others who all contribute to Danish society, to the Danish treasury and to our common welfare. The fact is that recruitment needs are growing and that we need to take great care to deal with it. Employees are the new scarce resource for Danish business and it risks running out the economic recovery. Because this is about ensuring the future of the Danish economy, although some have tried to confuse the debate by claiming that the government is opening its doors to everyone. That is not correct. It is extremely important that we distinguish between refugee and asylum policy and then immigration policy, which is primarily about our welfare. It is important to distinguish between different kinds of foreigners coming to Denmark. So we distinguish between those who come to Denmark to work because they need their labour and who thus contribute to our growth and welfare, and others who do not have the same desire to contribute. In the Conservative People's Party, we want to take care of those who contribute to the community and help to keep society together. We welcome them with open arms. We ourselves have already suggested that this problem should be dealt with by, among other things, the Commission. to extend the amount scheme to include more potential employees. An analysis by the Ministry of Finance shows that the net contribution of employees on the scheme is 1 billion. kr. to the Treasury every year. In addition, we should not underestimate the value it has for the Danish business community that they can continue to hire skilled and important employees. The best way to ensure continued economic progress is to ensure that the Danish business community has the forces they demand and need. So we have the opportunity to slam two flies with a spanking and solve the problem of qualified labour and at the same time make Denmark richer. That is why the Conservative People's Party can support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221143637	There is a brief comment. Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221143642	It's going well in Denmark • the companies are doing very well. You can hear what a politician we have on the platform at the moment. Of course, it's a friend of yours from the business community. No, sir. Naser Khader, the workers are doing very well in Denmark, but there are some of those who are not allowed to join, and therefore there is no need to open a barn gate for foreign labour to enter, because only with a little bit of care on the part of employers could they get the highly qualified workforce they wanted by just looking out the windows. Perhaps they could also get just a small pointed finger from the Royal Danish Conservative People's Party, who could say: When will you make sure that there is room for Denmark's apprentices at your jobs? When do you make sure there is room for the approx. 8,000 young people thirsting to be able to join are thirsty to be able to be at the Danish jobs? It may
ParlaMint-DK_20190221143739	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221143742	I have not heard the questioner praise the Danish companies at any time today. In fact, it is they who help to create our social cake growth, prosperity and well-being. It is rare for them to be praised. And now they say so and it is confirmed by Denmark's Statistics that there is a need for labour because there are bottleneck problems at the moment. There are some who have to say no to orders; there are some who may have to move abroad if they do not get the labour they need. That is why we listen to them when they say they need labour. After all, they are one of the main pillars of Danish society. That's how little praise they're gonna get.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221143827	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221143830	That's not what I asked. I asked when a Conservative might say that the almost 100,000 skilled unemployed Danish workers who are in line at the moment can also be taken in. We have 8,000 young people who can't get in. What will the Conservative rapporteur do to ensure that these people can also feel that things are going well in Denmark, instead of just saying: Away with them we look out into the world and see if we can get someone else in?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221143856	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221143859	None of us is saying that you should drop the Danish unemployed and then pick up others from the outside. Employers say that they simply cannot get hold of the labour they need in Denmark, and therefore there is a need for someone from outside. I spoke to someone who had opened a restaurant a little north of Copenhagen and said that he has enormous difficulty in getting a cook, even though the job is being broken up over and over again. So there is actually a need for some people to go in and fill out the posts that are there. There's no one who's holding out for the Danish unemployed to be able to fill these jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221143942	We thank the rapporteur. Then it is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration who is allowed to comment on everything that has been said in this Chamber today and what, in the opinion of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, is good and bad. Now it is possible for the Minister to explain his point of view. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221144002	Thank you so much. That was a nice introduction to this bill. Thank you for a good debate here. It is, of course, the case that more and more Danish companies are reporting a shortage of labour. The Board of Labour Market and Recruitment's latest recruitment survey shows that in the fourth quarter of 2018 there were 66.700 unsuccessful recruitments on the Danish labour market, so the figures speak for themselves. In half the cases, the post ended up not being filled, and the other unsuccessful recruitments were filled with a different profile than the one in demand. We must ensure that Danish companies have easy and flexible access to the workforce they need. Companies must be able to recruit qualified workers across national borders too, which of course has to happen. This is obviously in order, so that Danish and foreign workers compete on equal terms. The government takes the shortage of labour very seriously, because we will simply all lose if companies do not get the necessary labour. When we discussed the proposals with Parliament's parties in the autumn, it was clear that there was no majority in favour of giving companies better conditions, apart from very limited regulatory simplifications and a few half solutions. But the government wants ambitious measures. We want to ensure that companies achieve real improvements, and that is why we have now put forward a legislative proposal which translates the proposal into legislation. We believe that all the elements of the motion deserve careful consideration here in the Folketing, and we hope, of course, that it will be adopted as much as possible. Our draft law therefore includes, among other things: a proposal for a new country-specific amount scheme with a limit of DKK 350,000. for workers from third countries who are at the top 30 over countries with the largest investment flow to and from Denmark. After all, the proposal has met with great opposition, and I would just like to say here that the aim of a lower limit is obviously not that we should open the doors to a lot of random foreigners from third countries. The aim is to make it easier for companies to recruit qualified employees, as well as to mark decent and usual terms and conditions of employment. The draft law also contains a proposal to extend the positive list, both nationally and regionally, in order to respond better to current labour market needs than we do today, for example. the lack of skilled labour. It is proposed that both the professionally defined funds and the regional labour market councils should be able to supplement the positive list. This gives, among other things, a lot of money. the social partners the possibility of supplementing the positive list with job descriptions if there is agreement within the regional labour market councils. And I must say that I am very surprised that this proposal has also met with opposition. The draft law also proposes a number of measures to ensure a more flexible and balanced fixed track system. For example: We will shorten the quarantine period from 2 to 1 years and raise the level of fines so that companies are not excluded from the fast track system due to minor offences. It is probably no surprise to anyone that the draft law contains a proposal to abolish the payment system's requirement that pay up to and including the limit should be paid in a Danish bank account. The demand is simply extremely cumbersome and should therefore be completely abolished. There is an obvious need to broaden the scope of the existing arrangements and to make the rules more flexible where we can. We are in the midst of a recovery and we need to do something, otherwise we risk simply slowing down growth. I have to say that, frankly, I am somewhat disappointed by the lack of will in order to reach an ambitious political agreement in this area. We tried in the fall. I am particularly disappointed, I would say, by the social democracy. The negotiations were deliberately delayed and a number of other themes were raised which had little to do with the firms' need for skilled labour. Now we have put forward our proposal as a bill, and the government looks forward to contributing constructively to the work of the Danish Parliament on this, of course. We believe, of course, that all elements of the draft law should be implemented. But, on the other hand, every single element that comes along is a step in the right direction. I therefore hope that the parties of the Folketing will now be constructive in the work of the committee that lies ahead of us. My ministry is, of course, available with technical assistance to prepare specific amendments, and in this situation the government will also take a positive view if there is a proposal to split the bill. I would say that after I have heard Mr. Mattias Tesfaye here today, I have now decided that I will send a letter to the Social Democratic Party asking the Social Democratic Party to point out exactly what elements of the bill you could see yourself in. I shall then split the bill so that the Social Democratic Party can vote in favour of the elements that have been sporadicly announced today that they will participate in. I look forward to that, of course, because, as I said, everything that can come from this legislative proposal at all will be a step in the right direction, although I think it should of course be adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221144646	There are questions from Mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221144650	Thank you. I would just like to remind the Minister that, at the beginning of my rapporteur's speech, I mentioned ten specific points in which we think there are good elements. It has not been noticed, but I should like to send them anyway. But I also noticed some areas where it is completely pointless to do any things. If it is the case that, with the current limits, you can import all the highly qualified labour you want, if you want to pay Danish wages, why should the limit be lowered? I mean, an IT expert, an engineer and everyone else, you can get to Denmark with the current rules. What more do you want by lowering the limit? Is it because you want to make discount wages and push it under the Danes, who have a salary that is at this level at the moment? I simply do not understand why the limit should be lowered. No foreigners come and say that they only come to Denmark because they are offered lower wages. I've never heard of that yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221144757	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221144800	I just don't know what kind of world this is, sir. Christian Juhl lives in, but it is certainly not the real world. I would like to recommend Mr. Christian Juhl to go out and visit companies. I can give you a concrete example: a company that makes robots has problems recruiting. If you're gonna get a job from, for example... In other countries, and this is a newly trained labour force, it is not possible to offer such high wages as the limit on the amount is now set, because then you will be offering the foreigner who comes here a higher salary than the Danish newly trained engineer. Do you think the Danish new engineer will put up with it? I don't think so. That's just what you're standing in. These engineers don't exist in Denmark, and if you're going to have the opportunity to develop some of the companies, such as: working with robots... it's just one example... so you just have to do something.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221144900	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221144903	Well, the minister says so himself. You find it hard to get a very special engineer who can do something with robots. He's expensive. Then the Minister will lower the limit on the pay you should be able to get one of these. Today you can get some on Danish wages out there with the current limits. They can just get to the country. Because there is no upper limit. I mean, if that engineer's gonna have a million. kr. Every year, there are no obstacles in this law. So it's just getting in with that engineer for $1 million. kr. and then let him work in Denmark. I guess no other engineers in Denmark mind that there will be an increase in wages in Denmark. That's what's weird. It has nothing to do with that limit. Nothing!
ParlaMint-DK_20190221144951	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221144954	Well, sir. Christian Juhl, can you imagine that the co-worker, who has exactly the same training, will have to work half in salary? Can you imagine? No, it will then push wages up to a level that makes companies in no way competitive. I simply do not understand that Enhedslisten wants to try to print Danish companies in a way that does not allow you to experience the growth that you would otherwise be able to experience. That would be of benefit to all of us, sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221145029	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221145036	Now I have to take the floor. The Minister mentions that a Danish company producing robots could benefit from being able to get an engineer into a lower salary. But isn't the truth that Danish companies can already get through the positive list all the engineers they want, regardless of whether the salary is the DKK 425,000, as the limit says? What we are talking about here is skilled and unskilled labour, and people with higher education, including engineers, are on the positive list. So doesn't the Minister mess up his examples?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221145101	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221145104	Well, at least I can just say to Mr. Knox. Mattias Tesfaye, that there are plenty of companies that stand and lack labour, both of one kind and the other. I simply think it is nonsense that the Social Democratic Party is sitting in here pretending that you want to help Danish companies, and when it comes down to it, you do not want to. But now the Social Democrats are about to respond to a letter from me asking the Social Democrats to say what elements they support. For now it simply has to end with the fact that you just constantly stand and pretend that you want everything, and when it comes to the real world, you want nothing. So now you get this letter, and then you can answer it, and I look forward to it very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221145139	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221145142	Well, at least I'll get the letter opener. The reason I am taking the floor is that the Minister here in the Chair and elsewhere, among other things. in the press, refers to the engineers, and I can understand if there are many Danes out there who, if there is a lack of an engineer at their workplace, say that what they are talking about inside the remote makes sense. But this isn't about engineers. So I would just ask the Minister to confirm that engineers appear on the positive list and that it therefore makes no sense to refer to engineers as an argument for lowering the threshold.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221145210	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221145214	It makes sense to refer to engineers, for there is a shortage of engineers. engineers, also in the robot business around.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221145220	Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221145224	I would first of all like to ask whether the Minister, when she is going to the postage machine, would not be so kind as to send the same letter to the SF as well. But otherwise I would ask the Minister to deal with two things. One is this claim that there is a shortage of labour. How does the Minister feel about having 40 apprentices in school in the carpenter's trade and 20 in the electrician's trade alone at the Southern Danish Business School in Odense? That's one. The second point I would like to ask the Minister to address is the President of HK Private, Simon Tøgerns, speaking today, where he among other things. writes: The limit for foreign labour is today DKK 230,000. lower than the average salary of a Danish IT specialist. If Danish IT companies just want to pay Danish wages, they can easily fetch specialists without a lower limit.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221145301	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221145304	The only thing I can say is that I do not understand that one has such an urge to try to print Danish companies so that they cannot get the growth that they would otherwise have, to the great benefit of all of us. I simply cannot understand why we are constantly trying to find some straw to push the trade union movement, and I do not know what, in front of them, to make sure that we do not experience the growth in Denmark that we could otherwise experience, because they cannot provide the labour they need. Sir. Karsten Hønge, we live in the real world, and I think, sir. Karsten Hønge would benefit greatly from sometimes also trying to talk to the business community. But I can hear that business is one of the worst things you can possibly be in contact with. Now, sir, he's forgetting. Karsten Hønge maybe just a little, that it is they who actually earn the money for all of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221145349	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221145352	It is clear that there is a lot that the Minister does not understand, and if we are going to make it all, we cannot make it on this side of the summer holiday. But there is something I would ask for, because the Minister spent time on all sorts of other hooliganism, but did not reply to the two things that actually have something to do with reality, and that is the limit on the amount of IT specialists and in relation to skilled labour, and at the same time at the South Danish Business School alone we can have 40 carpenter apprentices walking in school practice right next to 20 electricians. If the limit is so important and you think it is quite incalculable, I would like to ask: is the Minister aware of these people who want to attract that the limit we have today is similar to what a Danish school teacher earns? It's like it's completely scary tall. I just mean, what's so scary about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221145436	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221145439	It is, for example, that you have difficulty getting the labour you need, and for example. Because new graduates are not necessarily at the same level of pay as people who have been trained for a very long time. Well, that's it, sir. Karsten Hønge among others. Sometimes forget that some of the people who need to be recruited from abroad are also newly educated people. After all, they must be paid for being newly educated, and it is just no use constantly trying to push wages up in Denmark. This therefore hampers the ability of our business community to develop. If I have to say something about school practical arrangements, I always think it is very good that you get to a real company. I don't think we can disagree on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221145525	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221145541	The debate has been opened, and the first to speak is Mr Beazley. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221145558	Today we are going to consider a proposal to amend the law on foreigners, following on from the fact that the Folketing has already decided to criminalise psychological violence. Psychic violence has very major consequences for the victims and, of course, as a society, we must take this very seriously. That is why the Social Democrats are very pleased that after a while we have managed to make a significant step forward in the legislation of criminalising mental violence. Violence is not just fists and kicks. It is also slow destruction of a human being through coercion, threats and humiliations that give long-lasting but in the victim but that cannot be seen on the body, but as the victim carries in the soul. That is why, of course, we believe that violations of the new article of the penal code on the prohibition of psychological violence should also be reflected in the sanctions imposed by the Aliens Act in the event that a foreigner is convicted of psychic violence. This is quite natural, and the Social Democrats can therefore support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221145659	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party, who is next in line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221145717	Thank you. This bill is a very good bill. It allows psychological violence among foreigners to be punished just as harshly as physical violence and to result in expulsion. I have always believed that the greatest and first victims in the Islamic world are women. If there is ever to be a so-called reformation of Islamic societies and environments, it is also my view that it must come from women. There are, among other things: In the Islamic world and in the Islamic environments, the custom is that women are practically confined and cannot leave the home without male companions and where they and their daughters live in a sort of prison-like state. This is about a prison-like condition, it's about incarceration and these rude, rude things. With this bill, it's gonna be illegal. It could also result in an administrative expulsion if an alien is sentenced to an unconditional prison sentence. It will allow the expulsion of foreigners who are subject to a conditional penalty if they have not been legally resident in the country for more than five years. Furthermore, it introduces the possibility of expulsion of persons who have not been in the country for more than six months. I would say that there is some of this that I do not really understand, because people who are not legally resident in the country should not be here at all, but let it be. So all in all, I think that this bill is a good one and that it is clearly clear what you are thinking about in terms of psychological violence, which may otherwise be a rather broad and rather rubbery term, but I think it is being well fenced in. We support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221145944	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Mads Fuglede as rapporteur for the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221145949	As has already been mentioned, this bill is linked to the bill on the criminalisation of psychological violence, L 139, tabled by the Minister of Justice on 9 January this year. As I also pointed out in the discussion of L 139, the problem of psychological violence is an issue that I have been following very closely since I came to parliament. I already visited the shelter in the Danner House on one of my first days, and it opened my eyes to how harmful psychological violence is and how devastating it can be for the people who are exposed to it. For although bruises are immediately easier to spot than psychic but, this does not mean that the injury is not at least as great. This should be reflected in our penal code. That is why I am delighted that there is great support for L 139 among the parties of the Folketing, and I very much hope that the bill will be adopted so that we can criminalise mental violence and thereby equate psychological violence with physical violence. Of course, such a position will have to be applied in all our laws, including the Aliens Act. That is why L 152, which we are discussing today, is a natural extension of L 139. If you as a foreigner in Denmark commit mental violence, it must of course have the same consequences as if you have committed physical violence. This means, among other things, that foreigners must be able to be expelled if they commit psychological violence, which they can now deport if they have committed physical violence. With those words, I can say that the Left fully supports the amendments to the Aliens Act which are to be adopted by this bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221150127	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221150136	The draft law before us today must be seen in the context of the pending draft law L 139 on the criminalisation of psychological violence, which we were discussing on 22 January. As I have said, that bill has not yet been adopted. It is scheduled for the third reading on 14 March. When the Minister comes forward with a legislative proposal on secondary legislation before the proposal to which it relates has been adopted, it reminds us of a haste for which it is difficult to find an objective reason. But the Minister can try to explain that. The Enhedslisten supported the bill to criminalise psychological violence at first reading in January. However, just as we agree that psychological violence must be criminalised, we disagree with the fact that there must be separate tightening of the expulsion rules in the context of criminalisation. We agree with, among other things. Amnesty International, who writes in the hearing that we should return to the stepping stone model of the alien law's expulsion rules. That is the model that means that the more serious a crime is committed, the greater the risk of expulsion. At the same time, however, this means that the longer you have stayed in Denmark, the greater the chance that you can retain your residence permit despite the offence. In our view, the two considerations must go hand in hand, on the one hand, with regard to the offence and, on the other hand, with regard to the attachment of the convicted person in Denmark, including the consideration of any children. Unfortunately, the tighter majority in this Chamber for many years has undermined the stairwell model by making it ever easier to expel, including people with long-standing and profound ties with Denmark. The legislative proposal we are discussing today is a further step away from the stairwell model, which is why we cannot support the legislative proposal. And we note that rejecting this, in our opinion, bad legislation does not mean that people who commit psychological violence can never be expelled. They will be able to do so without the adoption of this bill if the psychological violence is sufficiently severe and if the relationship with Denmark is sufficiently small. It is difficult to see this piece of insecure urgent legislation as anything other than a symbolic political attempt to picture that psychological violence is an ethnic or cultural problem. For this reason too, the Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221150418	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line, and the next rapporteur is Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221150432	Thank you for that, President. As a consequence of our decision here in the Folketing to criminalise psychological violence, it is also natural that we should consistently correct the law on foreigners. So what we are doing is to tighten up the rules on expulsion so that people can be expelled if they have committed psychological violence. We are also tightening up the family reunification rules, so that if you have been sentenced to 60 days in jail, you will not be able to have a spouse reunification, at least as a starting point. That is also what we are doing with the Karen rules. We can support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221150523	Thank you, sir. Joachim B. Olsen, and welcome to Carolina Magdalene Maier from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221150535	Thank you for the floor. It is quite true that this bill must be seen in the context of the bill on psychological violence, which we in the Alternative welcome. I don't know if we were the first, but as far back as October 2017, we actually proposed a separate paragraph in the criminal code to criminalise mental violence, so we are just glad that we have come there today that we are starting to look at psychological violence as equivalent to physical violence. So we are certainly positive about that part. On a par with Mr. Christian Juhl, we cannot support this bill, and we cannot, because it is not proportionate. We agree in principle that this new provision on the criminalisation of psychological violence may require some changes elsewhere, for example. in foreign law, but some of the changes proposed here seem out of proportion and they talk into a rather complex discussion on the principles of expulsion under alien law. With this proposal, people who have stayed in Denmark, for example. 5, 10 or 15 years or longer could be deported if, for example, they could be deported. 60 days of unconditional imprisonment, but persons who have been here for up to 5 years may be expelled by a conditional penalty alone. In practice, this means that a foreigner who receives a relatively subordinate sentence of liberty will receive a disproportionate additional sentence in the form of expulsion. So there is a bias in the measurement here, in relation to whether the sentenced person is a Danish citizen or not a Danish citizen. As Amnesty International also points out in their hearing answer, such a set of rules, in which expulsion hits some citizens harder than others, can, in principle, result in systemic discrimination. So there are some problems with this bill in that direction. This is, of course, part of a discussion on whether a system in which foreigners risk far more serious legal consequences than primary criminal action is legitimate. As Mr. Christian Juhl also mentioned, we have previously built on this stair ladder model, where the longer a person has resided in Denmark, the harder it actually takes to expel this person, and what we're doing with this bill is actually the opposite. So we are concerned about legal certainty in relation to some of the non-Danish people, i.e. those who could stand for expulsion in the bill, and therefore we cannot support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221150806	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then I would like to welcome the rapporteur of the Radicals, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Rasmus Helveg Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221150822	Thank you. On the radical side, we see this bill as a logical consequence of L 139, which is well on its way through the Things. It is a question of criminalising psychological violence. We believe that this is an impact legislation of L 139 and we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221150844	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen. There are no brief comments. Welcome to sir. Holger K. Nielsen from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221150900	It is clear that the whole debate on punitive punishment for psychological violence is not without complications, but that debate was held in connection with L 139 and, as you know, we supported that bill. Like others, I think it is a mess to put forward the legislative proposals in this way. So, either you should have put it here with L 139, or you should have waited for L 139 to be adopted in order to get a proper process out of it. It's a mess to do it like this. But we also see this as a consequence. In relation to L 139, there are some corrections to the law on foreigners, so that there will be a parallelism with the penalties there, and therefore we can also support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221151000	Thank you, sir. Holger K. Nielsen, and welcome to Mr. Naser Khader of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221151010	In the Conservative People's Party, we are very pleased that there has been more focus on psychological violence and the damage it does to the individual when you are repeatedly subjected to this kind of control. It is a form of violence which, unfortunately, we have not been good enough to deal with in society. This has meant that many have lived with deep scars on the soul and no opportunity to hold to those who have caused them the pain. The fact is, 2.5%. of the adult Danish population has been subjected to psychological violence. This corresponds roughly to the total population of Aalborg. That is why I am very pleased that the rest of the Danish Parliament has accepted the proposal for a new section 243 of the Penal Code. This testifies to the fact that we all agree to take this problem seriously and to take serious action against psychological violence. Having said A, as you know, we must also say B, and part of taking mental violence seriously is to ensure that it is punished properly. That is why the Conservative People's Party fully agrees that psychological violence must be able to lead to expulsion. Unfortunately, there are far too many cultures around the world where this kind of control is far too widespread and even considered commonplace in some places. With this proposal, we send a clear and clear signal to everyone that we will not tolerate psychological violence in Denmark. If it's part of the culture where you come from, it's something that has to be left at home. In short, we have here a proposal that helps to ensure that the victims of psychological violence can feel safe and know that, as a society, we also equate mental and physical violence on this point. That is why the Conservative People's Party can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221151207	Thank you. It's the Minister's turn now. Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221151216	Thank you for the debate and for the receipt of this bill, which I can hear is very much in agreement with. As you know, the bill is linked to the bill on the criminalisation of psychological violence put forward by the Minister of Justice at the beginning of January. In short, it is a question of introducing a provision on psychological violence into the penal code so that victims of psychological violence receive the protection, understanding and recognition from society that they deserve. In line with the practice of physical violence and other crime, it should of course also have consequences for alien law if a resident exercises psychological violence. With this bill, we will ensure that it is also important in relation to, among other things. the right of residence in this country if a foreigner commits psychological violence. We therefore propose, first of all, to tighten up the rules on expulsion. We want to introduce the right to expel foreigners who are punished by the new provision on psychological violence. If foreigners are granted unconditional liberty, whatever the length of their stay in this country, they must be able to be expelled. That is what already applies today when it comes to physical violence. And it has to be felt when you commit crime. Secondly, we propose to tighten up the rules on permanent residence permits. I firmly believe that permanent residence permits in Denmark are a privilege. That is why crime must also have consequences. The bill excludes resident foreigners who commit psychological violence and receive at least 60 days in prison from being able to obtain permanent residence permits. Thirdly, we propose that certain resident foreigners who receive such a punishment for having committed psychological violence should not normally be able to have a spouse's reunification. This is similar to what is happening today when a resident, for example, is living abroad. have committed crimes in family relations, sexual crimes and physical violence. Fourthly, we propose to tighten up the Karen rules applicable to family reunification and au pair stays • the 10-year waiting periods introduced to protect spouses and children and au pairs of residents who have been punished for having committed, for example. physical violence against a former spouse, child or au pair. With the bill, we want to extend the Karen rules so that mental violence is also included. This means that it will not normally be possible for resident persons to have family reunification or get an au pair to Denmark if they have been sentenced in the last 10 years to a freedom punishment for having committed psychological violence against a former spouse, a child or an au pair. All in all, the bill must ensure that the practice of psychic violence has consequences for alien law, just as it does for physical violence. Finally, I would just like to thank you once again for the great support that has been given to the draft law and, if there are any questions, I will of course reply to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221151556	Thank you. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221151618	Before we start the question, we need to put the rapporteurs first and also the Minister, and when I get a signal that the technology is working, we will get started. In the meantime, I can point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 26 February 2019. If we do so soon, the rapporteur who has put the question will be allowed to speak first, and that is the case here, Mr President. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten. Afterwards, the Minister replies, and once the Minister has replied for the first time, there is one brief remark from the rapporteurs, who sit here in the first row but only the rapporteurs, not all the Members of Parliament. After that, the negotiations are under way, and when all the rapporteurs have spoken, the Minister for Employment has the floor again, and in that round there is free access to ask two questions to the Minister from all the members of parliament who wish to do so. I would like to ask if there is any connection with Mr. Karsten Hønge. Is there any connection to Mr. Torsten Gejl and Mr. Bent Bøgsted? Then I think we're connected to everyone, and I'd like to welcome Mr. Rune Lund for a reason. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221151824	Yes, it is I who stand here today because, as many of us know, there is a lot of disease out there, and that's why Mr. Finn Sørensen is not present here in the Parliamentary Chamber today, but is sitting and following us all on parliament television at home. That's why I'm sir. Finn Sørensen's substitute today. The question we have today concerns: what can the Minister say about the consequences of the introduction of the cash aid ceiling, 225-hour rule, the integration allowance and the financial agreement's proposals on repatriation, dependency and transitional benefits? In fact, it is not so difficult to justify why we have this question debate. Because the legislation we are talking about here is one of the most intrusive things in the lives of the unemployed and sick people, one of the most intrusive things we have seen for many years. We can already see a number of clear signs that the only thing that comes out of these proposals is the massive impoverishment of thousands of people, and that will have major consequences for many people, for those affected, not least for the many families of children who are hit very hard by this legislation, which means that we have now reached 64 000 poor children in Denmark. These poverty benefits mean that many employees have to see their social security net eroded, and it is now being eroded even more with the financial law agreement, where we have the proposal for repatriation, dependency and transitional benefits, where parents will be deprived of up to DKK 2 000. a month. We will therefore see that the social problems and poverty will increase further in the coming years with the policy adopted. A society of poverty is a poor society, no matter how large the growth may be in gross domestic product or gross national product. In fact, it can be said that the greater the overall prosperity of a society which, at the same time, is experiencing increased inequality and poverty, the poorer the society. It is, in fact, a society that is poor in what is really the most important thing: humanity. I look forward to today's debate on behalf of the four parties responsible for the query, namely the Enhedslisten, the Alternative, the Radicals and the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221152054	Thank you. Then we've come to the minister. He also has the right to use the platform up here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221152059	Thank you for that and also thank you for the opportunity for this debate. And great greetings to Finn Sørensen, who certainly in his eagerness for this debate sits and follows it from where he is now. But we look forward to the debate with, among other things, one of them. Mr. Rune Lund. I think it is absolutely crucial that most people are given the best opportunities to get a job. A job is one of the most basic things in life. Stand up to something, having a working community, being a part of something is absolutely crucial. The fact that one earns one's own money, that one can help support oneself, and not least that one can also be a good role model for one's children, is something we must be happy about, and that is something we must also strive for for everyone to be able to do. That is why I am also pleased that, month after month, employment sets a new record. Since the summer of 2015, almost 160,000 private jobs have been created. Many people have come to work and are now able to support themselves. This is a huge gain for the individual citizen. It is a great gain for society because it frees money for the welfare society that we all benefit from. It can be for school and health, older people. Yes, we spend less money on passive support and can spend it differently. Therefore, there must also be an economic incentive to take a job. There must be a clear difference between an earned income and a transfer income, including in terms of wage income at the lower end of the pay scale. That is not to say that economic incentives are the solution to everything. Economic incentives cannot and must not be left alone. Some people need individual help to get into employment, some need training, and some need special handheld efforts. The government is very concerned that all citizens on temporary public support will be given an effort that will help them further and hopefully also provide them with a job. Today's inquiry only confirms that the ceiling on cash benefits, the 225-hour rule and the integration benefit are of great concern to many people, and with good reason. For it is about the economy of many people and their opportunities to get into employment and leave a life of transfer income. It is about politics and a real political disagreement about how much the difference should be between going to work every day rather than being on public support. It is also about what is right and fair. The government's position is clear: when people take a job, they should also be able to feel it financially. It is only fair to the many people who stand up and do their jobs every day. Therefore, it is also crucial that our performance system is geared towards a clear financial incentive to take a job. The fact that, at the same time, we have a reasonable basis for those who are not in work is also important. The fact that we have effective employment efforts so that people get to work quickly is also crucial. The government is also concerned that as few as possible should seek asylum in Denmark and that as many as possible of those who would then come here should work as soon as possible, help to contribute to Danish society and also support themselves. With the ceiling on cash benefits, the 225-hour rule and the integration benefit, we have helped to ensure that it is actually worth taking a job. This also applies to new arrivals while staying in Denmark. This has been done without compromising on the dependency base and the financial safety net that we must, of course, have for those people who do not have a job for a period of time. A typical married couple over 30 years of age on cash benefits with two children has approx. 15,100 kr. is available per month, when both taxes and housing expenses are paid. In fact, I think that is a reasonable amount of money for which we can live. I shall now turn to the consequences of the ceiling on cash benefits, the 225-hour rule and the integration benefit so far. What is absolutely crucial to me is that it is now better worth working. The ceiling on cash benefits ensures that the recipients of cash benefits will make significant economic progress, including by taking a full-time job at the agreed minimum wage and that the vast majority of family types will benefit significantly more financially than in the past. A married couple with two children, both on cash benefits, get a total gain of approx. 3,200 kr. a month if one gets a full-time job for a salary of DKK 18,700. That's 1,100 kroner. more than without the cash benefits ceiling. For a single person with two children, the prize is approx. 2,900 kr. The single mother with two children gets a prize of approx. 4,600 kr. extra per month if the person concerned comes to work. Without the cash aid ceiling, the prize was only DKK 1,700. The figures confirm that each beneficiary has received an additional financial incentive to enter employment. In addition, I also welcome the fact that new calculations by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Home Affairs show that the number of people with a net compensation rate of more than 80% has fallen from 330,000 to 217,000 people from 2015 to 2018. The net compensation rate shows the relationship between disposable income on transfer income compared with disposable income in employment, taking into account transport costs to and from work etc. Thus, there are fewer people who have limited financial incentives to enter employment when looking at the period from 2015 to 2018. The decrease is due to several factors, including the introduction of the ceiling on cash benefits and the integration benefit. The next thing that makes sense is how many people are affected by the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule. My impression is that many people believe that it is almost everyone in the cash aid system who is affected, and that is far from it. Here it is important to distinguish between persons covered by a rule and persons affected by a rule in the sense that the rule causes economic consequences for them. Although the ceiling on cash benefits covers everyone in the cash benefits system, not everyone is affected by the rule. This is due, for example, to the fact that the ceiling allows you to receive unchanged housing aid or to additional employment which allows you to receive more in support of housing expenditure. When it comes to the 225-hour rule, it is important to be aware that municipalities have to decide who should be exempted from the 225-hour employment requirement. In 2018, there were 125,500 people in the cash benefits system and 33,400 of them were affected by the cash benefits ceiling, the 225-hour rule or both. This corresponds to the fact that just over one in four persons in the cash benefits system are affected by the ceiling and/or the hourly rule. If we look at the 33,400 people affected in September 2018, 17,300 people were only affected by the ceiling. 12,700 were only affected by the 225-hour rule and 3,400 were affected by both. So how many aren't affected? you could also ask. Yeah, that's almost three out of four in the cash benefits system. And here I would also like to point out that in September 2018, almost half of all active cash benefits recipients were exempted from the 225-hour rule. Secondly, it is also appropriate to emphasise that the number of people in the cash assistance system is falling sharply. Month by month we have fewer people on cash benefits; a truly amazingly happy human history. From April 2016 to October 2018 alone, the number of people in the cash assistance system has decreased by approx. 31,900 full-time persons. The fall is small 20 per cent. at national level and is widely based throughout Denmark. The vast majority of municipalities are experiencing a major fall, and only a few islands have experienced the opposite. There are also a number of people who have begun to work alongside their services. The proportion of persons in the cash benefits system who work alongside their benefits in ordinary, unsupported work has risen from 4.7 per cent. in April 2016 to 7,3%; Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13). This suggests that many people adapt and adapt to the rules that apply and take the small jobs they can get. After all, the rules are designed so that the individual can avoid the effect of the ceiling by just a few hours of employment per week, and at the same time they can comply with the 225-hour rule. A job with a few hours a week can be a very good step into the Danish labour market. I am also aware that among those affected by the 225-hour rule there is a larger proportion of people working than there are among other recipients of cash benefits. It is positive in every way. No one is in any doubt that the recovery in the Danish economy and the growth in the labour market are also a natural reason why the number of people in the cash benefits system has fallen so sharply. At the same time, however, I am convinced that the government's efforts to introduce a ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule will, of course, also play a role. This is something we will soon have documented when we can see the impact analysis of the job reform that is expected to be ready here in the spring. The work on the impact assessment is progressing, but has proved more time-consuming and more technically difficult than initially assumed. It is of course extremely interesting to know what has happened to the many people who have left the cash assistance system. Have they gotten into a job, or have they just switched to other benefits? From April 2016 to October 2018, 83,900 people left the cash assistance system. That's 52 percent. 30% was in employment in October 2018, 17 per cent. was in education, and 40%. was on other benefits. And 12%. had become self-supporting. The positive figures for the departure from the cash benefits system are not only good for the many people who get into employment or get a different subsidy. Not least, it is also good for the children who find that Mom or Dad is no longer on cash benefits. In fact, between April 2016 and August 2018, there were actually just over 62,700 children living in families where one or both parents left the cash assistance system and thus had not returned to the system in August 2018. Of those kids, 31% have. parents who have entered employment, while 28%. have parents who have started an education. The picture also includes the fact that during the same period there were over 23,500 children living in families where one or both parents went to the cash assistance system without having left again in August 2018, when the statement was made. In other words, there are far more children now living in families who have left the cash assistance system than they have. When we look at asylum seekers who have come here, a great deal has also happened. Firstly, the number of asylum seekers has fallen sharply. For the whole of 2018, approx. 3,500 asylum seekers. This corresponds to the same low level as in 2017, when 3,500 asylum seekers were registered. For comparison, approx. 21,300 asylum seekers in 2015. Secondly, many more of those who come to the country come to work. 43% of the 21-64-year-old refugees and family members for refugees were in employment after 3 years of stay in Denmark in the second quarter of 2018. And this is to be compared to the fact that in the second quarter of 2015 the figure was only 21 per cent. As I started by saying, economic incentives cannot and must not be left alone. It is extremely important that we support citizens on cash benefits so that they can also get help in getting a life of work and thus also a higher income. We need to take advantage of the recovery to bring everyone in. That is also why, among other things, we are here. In the pool circle, more than 420 million have been allocated. kr. to carry out a special effort for vulnerable citizens. The aim of the effort, which is called "More people are going with "I" and "More people are going with "II", is two-part. Firstly, the municipalities must clarify the citizens of the cash assistance system. Municipalities must ensure that citizens receive the right help and are not, in reality, in the target group for flexible jobs and resource processes or even early retirement. Secondly, the municipalities must ensure that the citizens who have to make an effort are actually given a business-oriented effort and individual support. The aim is to achieve a full or partial foothold in the labour market. At the moment, we are looking at the experience of more people, and it has to be said that we have unfortunately seen that about one in three people, who have been long-term on cash benefits, are estimated to be in the target group for resource progression, flexible jobs and early retirement. It is, of course, in many ways a declaration of bankruptcy, and it should also be a wakeup call for the municipalities of the country. I would also like to stress here today that it is the responsibility of the municipalities to properly search the citizens so that they get the right help. But, of course, there is also reason to highlight some of the positive results. At the end of December, approx. 70% of those who do not belong to the cash benefits system, transferred to other benefits, mainly flex jobs, unemployment benefit, resource progression and early retirement. In addition, the municipalities are also well in the process of helping the remaining citizens. Nine out of ten have received a personal job service provider, more than one in three are in business or have regular hours, and almost every tenth has almost 10%. I mean, it's kind of an amazingly happy event. I think it is important to conclude by emphasising another point that we have dealt with politically: the agreement made by a broad circle of political parties in November 2018, when we chose to tighten sanctions against those who can, but will not, be available to society. After all, in the agreement we have emphasised that municipalities must take the necessary account of vulnerable citizens, and in many ways we have actually made the rules more comprehensible to the very group of citizens who are at risk. But we have also helped to make it easier to impose effective sanctions on those citizens who do not want to accept the offers made to them. I think that is common sense. And let me sum up briefly: the ceiling on cash benefits, the 225-hour rule and the benefit of integration are the subject of a good, constructive debate. I think this is a good and important discussion, which I myself have had the pleasure of participating quite a lot over the last two years. The government insists that there should be an economic incentive to take a job. The cohesion of our society is affected if we do not have an economic benefit from going to work, and therefore there must now be a difference between labour income and transfer income. And there is now, without compromising on the economic safety net, and we must, of course, continue to deal with those citizens who may need help to come from cash aid into the labour market. And that is why the government is also satisfied with the results that we have made together with the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221153642	Thank you. Well, that was almost true over time. There are some brief comments now. You have one brief comment per person. rapporteur of 1 minute. The first is sir. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221153655	Thank you for your speech and your statement. And thank you to Enhedslisten for having called this with the rest of us, but they have taken the initiative. Does the Minister for Employment recognise that there is no evidence that all the good results mentioned by the Minister have anything to do with the ceiling on cash benefits, the 225-hour rule and the integration allowance? Does the Minister accept that the good figures for employment have to do with an economic recovery which is not the result of the employment minister's policy at all? Does the Minister recognise that, following the withdrawal of an impact study showing that the ceiling on cash benefits has largely contributed to employment, there is absolutely no evidence that the ceiling on cash benefits, the 225-hour rule and the integration allowance have in any way benefited employment?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221153748	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221153749	No, I really don't. It's very short. The efficacy analysis that was carried out showed that it had an effect. There were such errors in the data base, which is why we are also doing a new impact study, and then we can take the discussion on the basis of it. But no matter what, this is also about fairness. It is about fairness, in relation to the fact that there must be a difference between passive transfer and being part of the labour market. I notice the many good interviews that have been going on, even recently, when there are people who have left the cash assistance system expressing great gratitude for having become part of the labour market. And this is due to a large number of conditions, including the good economic conditions currently in Denmark. Of course, I would also like to say that the government cannot be attributed alone.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221153836	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221153838	Now the Minister also says that the social safety net has not been affected. But then you can look at the survey carried out by the Workers' Employment Council last December, where they show that the number of poor children in our country has now reached 64 500. And what they write in the report, and as they show, is that it had actually been possible to crack the basket for child poverty in Denmark, but that the number of poor children is now rising again because of the ceiling on cash benefits, the 225-hour rule and the integration benefit. How can the Minister stand here on the floor of the Parliament and say that the social security net has not been harmed when we can clearly see that the poverty benefits that we have today and the poverty that goes with it are greatly affecting children in the form of increasing child poverty?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221153939	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221153940	In other words, I do not recognise the analysis made by the Social Democratic Party through the Employment Council of the Workers' Movement I simply do not recognise it. There are many reasons for this, and I have also explained this in various consultations. First of all, it is a very strange definition that has been chosen. It is the case that if one were to be characterised as poor, students are also part of that basis, including self-employed people. And that is why I simply think that analysis is incomplete. Having said that, however, I welcome what I have been talking about here today, namely how many people have now been helped out of the cash assistance system through the fact that their parents are now no longer part of the cash benefits system. Then, of course, it is also crucial that we have a sustained focus on helping those who are today in our cash assistance system, and that is why I think we should also welcome the great, dramatic fall that has occurred where almost 32,000 people have left the cash assistance system since April 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221154046	Thank you. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221154048	In other words, the Minister is quite right that the best thing for children is that they experience their parents being in work. Last year alone, 12,500 children were thrown into poverty... what are they going to use such programme statements for, where they say they would be better off if, if, if their parents were in work, they are not, and therefore they have ended up in poverty? What do they need it for? What does the Minister want with such a programme statement?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221154114	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221154116	Well, I don't know the number that Mr. Karsten Hønge has arrived. It is certainly not a figure of which I accept in any way. I think it is important, as a politician, to make a big difference in terms of making it better worthwhile to work, which is why I am so concerned that there is a difference between being on passive transfer income and being on the labour market, and I welcome how many people are actually leaving the cash assistance system at the moment and walking directly into the labour market or in education. Having said that, I recognise that something still needs to be done. An extraordinary effort is still needed, and that is also why we have made a broad political effort towards those who have been in the cash assistance system for several years.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221154208	Sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221154211	Thank you. Does the Minister recognise that poverty challenges the cohesion of society and does the Minister recognise that most of the people who come on these services have actually become poorer?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221154221	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221154222	So, I do not think we can talk about poverty in the literal sense of the word in Denmark. I understand that there are some who have limited financial resources. Now I have gone through what you have in public support, and I stand fully committed to that. What is needed is to ensure more that people can become part of the labour market. And it has to be said that if you choose to change the ceiling for cash aid or abolish it, abolish the 225-hour rule, which I understand the opposition will, then you will find yourself in a situation where there are far fewer people who will become part of the labour market because there is an economic incentive not to have a job. And I think that's wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221154302	Thank you, Minister. I have to make sure that the Minister for Justice is in place to enjoy the chair or to take part in the debate. But you are warmly welcome to use your chair, whether you want to take part in the debate or not. Then we move on to the rapporteurs. The first rapporteur is the rapporteur for the questioners, sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221154326	Thank you. In yesterday's newspaper, Berlingske, the political leaders, the political rapporteurs of the four parties responsible for today's question debate, had that was Mrs Pernille Skipper, Mr. Uffe Elbæk, sir. Morten Østergaard and Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr have made a joint speech with a clear message that we have to abolish the poverty benefits we have today because of the major consequences they have. After all, what the four party leaders pointed out was that the Prime Minister said in his New Year speech that never so many have had so many opportunities. But it is true that while the Prime Minister is extremely proud of the progress of the Danish economy and the rich opportunities, at the same time there have never been as many poor children in Denmark as we have today. It is children who will grow up with fewer chances in life if we do not get a new political majority that is actually going to do something and eliminate poverty benefits. Because it is as we have already said in today's debate that there are today approx. 64 500 children living below the poverty line 64 500 children. Think about how many kids it is. It actually corresponds to the inhabitants of what is Denmark's sixth largest city, namely Randers. With the introduction by the government and the Danish People's Party of the ceiling for cash aid, the 225-hour rule and the integration benefit, thousands of people have been sent into poverty, and this has been done, knowing from the parties responsible that it will primarily affect families with children. The reforms have particularly affected single people with children who are now paying a very high price. And no matter what you think about the parents, whatever you think it's good to get people into work... it seems to all of us who are here today... you just have to say that the children that are hurt have done nothing wrong. But they are the ones who are feeling the consequences of poverty benefits. They live in an everyday life with anxieties, with few or no leisure activities, or without coming along when the rest of the class goes to child birthday because there is no money to do so. Growing up in poverty means fewer chances in life and a greater risk that even one day you end up without education or work. The statistics show their clear figures in this context. Even if you believe that poverty gets people into work, it is at most about a few hundred people according to the government's own calculations. But it doesn't seem that the point has slipped in, either with the government or the Danish People's Party, which with the latest reduced integration benefit and now proposes an even lower so-called self-support and return and transitional benefit • it's actually incredibly difficult to say that it doesn't want to solve the problem. Pushing more people into poverty doesn't solve anything. It also makes it difficult for foreigners to be integrated into the Danish labour market, and not least in society, something that the government has said for a long time now is a high priority for the government. The goal must be to get you to work or to get help with sickness and social problems when you need them. The goal is not to punish the children. Therefore, the focus should have been first to get people into work rather than the last. Too many have gone unemployed for far too long, and it takes effort to get them back to work. It just doesn't help to hit these people with poverty and further poverty. The four parties that are behind this debate today are clear. We want to abolish the ceiling on cash benefits, the 225-hour rule and the integration benefit, and we actually think that it can only go too slowly. That is why we need a new political majority. Unfortunately, however, we lack the social democracy, which has not yet given a firm commitment to abolish the excessively low benefits, even though we all agreed not to introduce them. We have therefore called for this debate in the Danish Parliament today. As rapporteur, I also urge the Social Democrats to endorse the proposal for adoption that we are going to put forward, because we need concrete commitments so that we can help the many thousands of Danes who have now been pushed into poverty by the government and the Danish People's Party. For poverty does not help anyone, it simply pushes people further away from the labour market and further away from the community. Therefore, on behalf of the four parties who are behind this question debate, and this is the Enhedslisten, Alternativet, Radical Left and Socialist People's Party, I would like to read and make the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the introduction of a ceiling on cash benefits, a 225-hour rule and an integration allowance lead to increased poverty, which particularly affects families with children. The Danish Parliament notes that the government itself expects only a few hundred more people to get to work while thousands of people are impoverished. At the same time, the Danish Parliament notes that the introduction of these services and rules makes it difficult to integrate foreigners into the Danish labour market and into Danish society. Parliament therefore instructs the government in the current parliamentary year to put forward legislative proposals which abolish the ceiling on cash benefits, 225-hour rule and integration benefit. The Danish Parliament therefore also rejects the Government's proposal for even lower benefits in the form of self-employed and return and transitional benefits. • V 77).
ParlaMint-DK_20190221154931	Thank you. The proposal for adoption is part of the debate. Rune Lund, sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221154944	Thank you. Now, sir. Rune Lund explained a little what Enhedslisten's policy is in relation to cash benefits recipients. I understand that it is all about giving them a higher benefit, but Mr. Rune Lund hasn't said at any time what Enhedslisten is doing to get people away from cash benefits. It appeared that if they were to receive higher benefits, they would also get away from cash benefits. But that has not worked in the years when the Enhedslisten was a parliamentary basis for the SR government. I mean, no one else got away from cash benefits. But I guess it's not just about giving them a higher benefit, and then it's all right, then it's protected, and then the cash benefit recipients can take care of themselves. Well, that's actually it, sir. Rune Lund stands and says up there, that we just have to abolish the cash aid ceiling, then they get a higher benefit, and then they can really take care of themselves, instead of saying what Enhedslisten is doing to help them into the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221155044	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221155045	I would like to congratulate Mr. Bent Bøgsted and say that what it really is about here is focusing on creating some jobs, because that's what gets people to work. It is therefore precisely not to impoverish people who are getting people into work. Here, poverty is being created for thousands of people, and many thousands of children in our society are suffering extremely badly. If only the government and the Danish People's Party could prove or document that this massive impoverishment then also results in more people getting to work, it would in some way at least be a little less poor than it really is, but you can't even document that either. We have seen that the Minister for Employment has been out to present a study that poverty benefits should have the effect of getting 600 more people to work, and later the figures had to be withdrawn because it was not true. It was precisely not possible to prove that it was the poverty benefits that led to people getting into jobs. So maybe I think that Mr. Bent Bøgsted should answer where it is, sir. Bent Bøgsted sees that the massive poverty reduction that lies in the poverty benefits we are discussing today should get more people into work. I haven't seen those figures so far, at least.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221155207	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221155210	Thank you. It is a question of how to look at it in this context. But Mr. Rune Lund doesn't talk about what Enhedslisten will do to get these cash benefits recipients into jobs or education. That's what we need, sir. Rune Lund says something about it. What is Enhedslisten going to do? For in the four years you sat as a support party, Enhedslisten did nothing; there was no fall.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221155237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221155238	I don't know what it was about us doing nothing. So, we want to create more jobs, we want to create jobs in Denmark. We want this in many ways by employing more welfare workers in the public sector in the bourgeois welfare sector, and we want to support the promotion of green technological solutions, which also create private jobs, just to take some concrete examples. Basically, we do not believe in getting more people into work, or in creating more jobs, in creating massive poverty, as Mr. Bent Bøgsted apparently thinks that's a really good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221155320	Thank you, sir. Rune Lund. There are no more brief comments. We now turn to the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr President. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221155332	Thank you for that, President. It's rare for me to put down this microphone, but I have to do that now and I've tried it too. We have had this discussion in the Chamber a great many times, that is to say. What, then, are the consequences of introducing a ceiling on cash benefits? Does it get any more work? Does it create poverty? Or does it create a skewer Denmark? There are many questions you can ask yourself. One might also ask more generally: What effect do these services have on human behavior in relation to getting into work, and can these benefits be too low? At least one thing is certain: this ceiling, which this government has created, has put a number of single parents and families of children under extraordinary pressure. We are talking about children who cannot come to children's birthdays because parents cannot afford a gift; about children who do not participate in sports associations with the social benefits and experiences it now offers. We have also seen that a number of sick people have been affected by the ceiling, which is now being tried to patch up with the project.More people are going along with it, which is, moreover, good and which we ourselves have supported. But here it turns out that a number of those who are hit by the ceiling are so ill that they should not be there at all. Then we have also seen examples of cash aid recipients who have been invited to move from the Copenhagen area to Lolland. It is therefore a ceiling on cash benefits which can push some people into areas where housing is cheaper. It creates a skewer Denmark, which we certainly cannot and will not accept either. So, what, the cash-aid ceiling gets people into work? After all, the Prime Minister has claimed that it has got a great many in work that was shown to be several thousand, he claimed at one time. The Minister for Employment has said the same on several occasions. We've both been out in gut feeling and analysis, we've been out in a lot of things in this whole process. But they just don't really have anything to do with it, because the analysis that the Minister had made showed a completely different picture from the beauty that the Prime Minister and Employment Minister tried to paint. And it ended up with the Minister withdrawing it and telling us that he was going to come up with a new analysis. We are still waiting for it, and we are now hearing that it will come in spring. I'm excited to see if it's actually gonna make it before a choice, but it's gonna be pretty interesting to see how long it's gonna take. I was also told here from the platform that there were some technical errors and all sorts of other things in it. It is funny that it was only then that the EPOS began to think that the analysis might have been different, that the government reacted that is quite interesting. The system of benefits we must have in this country must go on two legs: one leg must ensure a strong social safety net for those who are in a very, very difficult situation; the other leg must encourage everyone to get a job and, in the long term, to train themselves so that they can support themselves and their families. It is, in fact, a question of right and duty, and that is something that we as a party have talked a great deal about. I just have to say that the two legs are not working and that we have a system of benefits that is not in balance at all. That is why the Social Democratic Party is proposing to set up a Services Commission as soon as we get to it and it will have to provide answers within a year to the very questions I have asked here. So, how do we create a good and future-proof system of benefits? When I say 'future insurance', there is no one who can benefit from the fact that an already very complicated system of benefits, which by the way is not understood by many people, flies up and down, depending on who has the power of government. Neither those affected, i.e. the unemployed, nor those employed in the job centres, who have to administer new rules after each change of government, can be served in this way. I would therefore hope that we can obtain a broad majority for a new system of benefits, which does exactly what it needs to do, namely to ensure that people are encouraged to get into jobs or education and that, at the same time, it provides them with the safety net that is so important if they need it. And in those words, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, I would like to say the following: I think it is very good, of course, and I would urge the four other opposition parties to support it, and I am sure they can, when they hear how well it is: the proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that it has not succeeded in ensuring the fair balance of benefits that should be provided. A balance in which, on the one hand, we ensure a strong social safety net for those in a difficult situation and, on the other hand, we encourage everyone to get a job and support themselves. The Folketing is particularly concerned about whether there are children who grow up without the opportunities in life that they can reasonably expect. The Danish Parliament also notes that the system of benefits has for far too long been subject to constant changes in narrow political agreements. In view of this, Parliament considers that a Commission should be set up to provide for a more coherent and better balanced system of benefits. The Commission must also assess the consequences of the reduced benefits, including their ability to get people into jobs, as well as the consequences for the living conditions and conditions of children. V 78)
ParlaMint-DK_20190221155849	Thank you. This proposal for adoption will also be included in the debate. There are two brief comments to Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, and one is from Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen. Rune Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221155900	Thanks for the speech. I understand that we cannot make the Social Democrats say clearly today that they want to abolish, for example. the ceiling of cash benefits or the integration benefit or the 225-hour rule for that matter. It will be discussed by a Services Commission. I've been thinking about this Services Commission. Does the Social Democratic Party in fact already have any ideas or model of what a future system of benefits might look like, in the sense that when the Social Democratic Party will not help abolish the ceiling on cash aid, that is to say roll it back, this is because the new model of social benefits that the Social Democratic Party is considering will have the consequence that some people will have less than they would have if, as it were, they simply rolled back and abolished the ceiling on cash aid?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221160000	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221160002	It is clear that I cannot say exactly where things are going to end up with a Services Commission, but what I said in my speech was that what worries us about this, and as I also know that Mr. Rune Lund cares about the families of children, the single mothers, those who have really been hit by this. We're worried about that. It also worries us that it has created a skewer Denmark, where, of course, we see that some people travel to those areas where it is cheaper to get housing, and that is why we actually believe that it should pass a service commission. You can see, too, that this ceiling on cash benefits has not actually created very many jobs, virtually none. The answer to the question of whether or not we are going to abolish the ceiling on cash benefits is that we will, because when it comes to a new benefit commission, there will be new benefits, and then the ceiling on cash benefits will be gone. Then there'll be new benefits, and what they'll be like, I can't know. But then it is a new system of benefits that we are looking at, and I certainly hope we can agree on that, so that we do not have to stand here every time there has been a change of government and change it again. Because I actually think that neither the unemployed nor the employees out there deserve that. And I can say that this is something they spend a lot of time on out there when you make new performance systems.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221160122	Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221160126	Now that the Social Democrats agree that these benefits are simply leading to more poverty without having an effect on employment, why would it not be more logical to simply roll it back and abolish poverty benefits while letting the Commission work? That would, of course, be the most logical thing if we voted against these benefits. That is why my question is this: is the reason why the Social Democratic Party does not take the position that the new model that the Social Democratic Party imagines can emerge from the work of a Commission will mean that some people will then receive less benefit with the benefit that can come out of the work of the Commission than the benefit that some people will get if they simply remove poverty benefits, as we know it today?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221160215	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221160218	After all, this has bothered us a great deal, and I also believe that it has been possible to hear it in my speeches about it, but also to see how much we fought against it together with, for example, Enhedslisten and Mr. Finn Sørensen at the time. We also still agree that this is not the right thing to do. I think you could hear that quite clearly in my speech. We're going to do this really fast. That commission must be completed within one year, and by then we must also ensure that those who are most affected, i.e. the single mothers and children's families, receive some form of extra benefit, and we must ensure that the very sick and the disabled are taken out of it, and so we maintain until then the other things. Then a Services Commission will be working, and then they will have to come up with a very good proposal on which we can agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221160301	Thank you. Then it's mr. Hans Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221160306	Thank you. If I understood, sir... Leif Lahn Jensen quite rightly just a moment ago, the Social Democrat rapporteur said very clearly that the Social Democratic Party does not want the ceiling on cash aid anymore. It is no longer worthwhile to work. But that is perhaps the most important thing we can get out of this debate today, that is to say that the Social Democrats say no to having a ceiling on cash aid, and so now it should no longer be worth working as it can today. Then I have to ask a question to the Social Democratic Party, and it may be that Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen can elaborate today. I understand from several Social Democrats that part of the Commission has to look at the high rents in Copenhagen and other major cities. Can I understand it in that way that you want to raise the cash benefits for people living in the big cities?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221160402	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221160405	It is quite clear that when we say that we need a new system of benefits and there is the current ceiling on cash benefits, it is actually gone, because then there will be some other benefits. I think that is easy to understand. Then I just think there's something weird. I know, sir. Hans Andersen always listens to things when you say things and that I get some kind of teasing question. But then it is strange, because in my speech I just said that there are two legs that we want a system of benefits to go on. One is that there has to be a very good safety net for these people. The next thing I want to do is read again that the second leg should encourage everyone to get a job or an education and in the long run can support themselves and their family. This means that such a benefit system, a cash assistance system, must ensure two things: that one is encouraged to get to work and that one gets to work, because one does not have to be in the system for a long period of time, while at the same time, if one is in the unfortunate situation of getting here, one must of course be able to cope and there must be the safety net. I think we are saying this quite clearly, as opposed to the bourgeois who just want to cut it down all the time, and some others who may think it is best to increase the benefit. So we are just standing in between and think that it is important to encourage it and that there is a safety net.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221160514	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221160517	Well, now I am a little confused, because the Social Democrat President, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, has been quoted from the New Year's conference here in January to say in connection with the debate on the ceiling for cash aid: the rent is very, very high, not least in Greater Copenhagen. It is also in some of our other cities. So that's a problem. Could we really adjust our services more wisely to the level of rent? I should just like to ask: does the rapporteur agree with the President of the Social Democratic Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221160551	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221160553	It would be strange and the first time one could see that there was a rapporteur saying that it was not. That would be weird, wouldn't it? Of course this commission has to look at this too. The Service Commission should look at it in relation to the safety net, i.e. how large the services should be and how it should be in relation to the children's families and single people, and how it should be in relation to geography, that is, where you live. They must then secure some kind of benefit system that we will not have to change again if there is a new government. It has to be something we can all agree on: this is a very good system. It is a good safety net, and it also allows it to be able to bite its way into the labour market. That's the whole point of it. That's why you have to work with everything you can at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221160638	Then it's mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221160643	Thank you. We radically welcome the idea of a service commission. It is always a good idea to get a comprehensive picture of a problem. We would like to support that too, but we will not let a performance commission be a jar in order to address the challenges of child poverty and the negative effects of these poverty benefits. Can the rapporteur not try to help me understand what can be done immediately after an election, where there may be a new majority, in order to put an end to this child poverty, possibly at the same time as the Service Commission works?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221160716	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221160719	I am super happy to hear that the Radical Left wants to look at a performance commission. I welcome this very much, because I believe that we need to do it together and that we should provide some really good services that can also survive in the future. So thank you for that. No, I don't want it to be a jelly jar. That is also why we have said on several occasions that its work must be completed within 12 months. That is also why we are saying that during that period we must ensure that single parents have a proper basis for support, which many of them do not have today. We are in complete agreement with that. We must also ensure that the sick and disabled are exempted from the cash benefits ceiling, because we have also seen through what we have done under the rate pool, where we have just done it there with more people, that many of these sick people are actually • I think it was 3,000-4,000 people • being hit by the cash benefits ceiling. I remember when we were standing here. There the bourgeois said that there should be an incentive to get started, but when you cannot react to it because you are sick, you cannot get started. Then you're sick. It's not like you don't want to. We want to bring them too. That is the answer to what it is that we need to look at quickly during the transition period until the Services Commission is completed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221160827	Sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221160831	Thank you. It would be necessary, radically speaking, to say that from the outset we are scraping these poverty benefits so that we would be able to accept such a benefit commission, so that we can just be sure that it will be a jam jar. What does the rapporteur say about such an idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221160844	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221160848	We hold on to what I'm saying here. We must make sure that single parents have more to live to ensure that they do not face the problems they have now during the transition period. We must ensure that the sick and the disabled are also exempted. And then we have to wait until the Services Commission is ready, and then together we have to land a very good service system that also lasts in the long term.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221160906	Thank you. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221160908	Yes, but there is every support for the Social Democratic proposal for a Service Commission. There may be many good arguments to look at the interaction between services and expenses and debt. That's a good idea. But is it not the case that when you go to an accident, you start to stop the accident and then you can see what you can do to make the conditions for the accident better? So would it not be natural for us to do so in such a way that we do not remove poverty benefits while the Commission is working? I mean, unless mr. Leif Lahn Jensen can now make it clearer what is going to happen in that year, we can only see that if it goes through the year, as it has been in the past, we run the risk that while the Service Commission is working, 12 000 children will be put into poverty. So what'd they get out of it? They got a long nose.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221160958	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221161000	I thought it helped and that you could hear better when you came closer to the platform under the new rules on query debates. It hasn't helped. You still can't hear it, even if you're standing in front of it, and it probably doesn't help anything. But I have tried before, and I say it again: what we are going to do is focus on the really big issues that we think there are in this: that single parents and families with children are hit really hard. We will look at them during the transition period. And it's people who are sick and who get hit. We'll look at them too. I repeat again: that is what we want.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221161032	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221161034	If you were a very modest and humble person, you might think it was a great thing to know that social democracy would look at something. I do not think that is quite enough, because we are running the risk that what these poor children can look at is the long nose they get. That's why I'm going to ask Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen: What will happen during that transitional period if, as I hear it, it is perhaps to eliminate poverty benefits? Why not say it instead of saying that you do not want to remove them, that you want a commission, and then you do something that tastes a bit of fish without it?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221161103	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221161104	Then it's a shame I can't move from the platform or take this fuck down with me and stand in front of Mr. Knox. Karsten Hønge, so I can get closer to him, for Mr. Hønge. Apparently Karsten Hønge still hasn't heard what I'm saying. I don't know if we have to stand two up here next to each other so we can get closer and talk. What I am saying is that, during the transitional period, the sick and disabled are exempted from the ceiling on cash benefits, and we must guarantee more money for single parents who are in difficulty. I think that is quite easy to understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221161131	Thank you. Then it's mr. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221161133	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. Now there are three, four, five rapporteurs who have tried to get an answer on the cash aid ceiling, and I understand that we will probably not get an answer today. But I would like to talk about something else. After all, we have had a good relationship with tightening up some things in the field of foreigners. One of the things that we know meant a lot, since in 2015 there were incredibly many asylum seekers and that we have changed it is here with the benefit and that we have made it less attractive to come to Denmark and seek asylum. We've done the integration service. And we have not really received a clear answer as to whether the Social Democratic Party will abolish the integration benefit and thus change it, so that a family who comes here and seeks asylum gets about perhaps 10,000 kroner. more a month to live for, so Denmark again becomes a magnet for asylum seekers. What is the attitude of the Social Democratic Party to the benefits of integration?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221161221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221161222	The answer is that the integration benefit becomes part of the work of the Service Commission.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221161226	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221161228	[Sound Outlook]... I shall understand it in such a way that we cannot get an answer to that either. I just think that it is worrying to think that it should suddenly be so economically attractive to come to Denmark and seek asylum. What is the difference between the integration benefit and going back to the old system is perhaps 10,000 kr. more monthly paid to a family who comes and seeks asylum. Is this not something that one might just give an idea of, i.e. whether one could think of raising benefits so much for asylum seekers in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221161255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221161257	It is interesting that Anders Johansson started by saying: We did not get an answer to that either, but I can then conclude that they want it and that. But that's not true. What I said was that we would take it into account in the work of a Services Commission, which means that it must be worked on like all other services. When we want a new system of benefits, that applies to all benefits. Then we cannot just say: we now want to take them with us, and now we do not want to take them with us. It is all the benefits that we have to work with, and then we have to create a very good system that walks on the two legs that we want, so that it makes people get into employment and that it gives this safety net.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221161328	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221161333	My hearing is usually relatively good, but it may be that I have to get all the way up to the platform with the rapporteur in order to understand this whole thing. I can hear what the rapporteur says, but I need to understand why. Why is it that, from day one after election, if the Social Democratic Party is given the opportunity to do so, the ceiling on cash benefits will roll back, the 225-hour rule and the integration benefit will be restored, and then a benefit commission will be set up, which will then be able to work in the meantime and perhaps create a new benefit system? We'd like to see that if it's rolled back first. But what we are doing now, if the Social Democratic Party says that we must first have a benefit commission and nothing is being moved until it is finished, is actually telling all those people who are currently parked on cash aid to an excessively low level of service, with all the consequences that result in you being in total confusion. In other words, they are told that at some point there may be a solution that they have no way of knowing what is. It is of course tens of thousands of people that we put into such a kind of waiting position, in a situation where they are incredibly pressured, and many of them are too sick to work and still have been put down in help, and they cannot even respond to the incentive. So I have heard what the rapporteur says, but my question is: why wait to roll it back to after a commission?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221161452	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221161455	What we are doing is that during the transitional period, from the time we will hopefully come to the government or there will be another majority, we will choose precisely to help those who are most under pressure: the families of children and single parents who are in difficulty, and also the sick and disabled. When Mr. Torsten Gejl then says whether they really have the opportunity to know what is up and down on it, I have to say that I think that when you set such a performance commission in motion and it starts to work and we discuss it in here and people call it question debates and everything else, we get closer to it at that time. I do not see that this is the kind of thing that goes quietly in here, but what we are trying to do in this way is to say that we simply have to create a proper system of benefits once and for all. Because if we are to be completely honest, then there were many recipients of cash aid who did not get off the ground at the time we had the power of government. Fortunately, that is where we managed to sort out the fact that there were families with children who got better, and that is what we need to do. After all, we must ensure that families with children are better off, and we must resolve this in a system of benefits. But it wasn't the case that a lot of people got started then, and we have to do something about that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221161559	Sir. Torsten Gejl? No, good. There will then be no further brief comments, and we thank the rapporteur and pass the baton on to Mr Beazley. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221161616	Thank you for that, President. This is a rather exciting debate, and thank you for calling the debate. It is always good to have a debate on the cash benefits ceiling and the 225-hour rule, so thank you to Enhedslisten for raising that debate today. This also gives me the opportunity to make some points about the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule. There is no doubt that the Danish People's Party wants to maintain the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule, precisely because we have to work to get people to work and not just keep them away on a support. That is what one can get the impression of when one hears the debate, that is, it is all about the fact that as long as they have a support, the sacred grave is well-preserved, and then one does not have to do anything. In the Danish People's Party we would like to make an effort to get people away from the cash aid. They must enter the labour market or start training, they must be retrained so that they can take care of themselves. It is no wish to continue in a cash aid system, and fortunately most people do not go forever. What have we done in this regard? If you look at the 225-hour rule, which has been very scolded, you can actually see that there is in the agreement that, if you get a job of 6 hours a week, you can work your way out of cash benefits. So how do you get that job? You can find it yourself, or you can get help with it. It actually says directly in the law that for those who cannot themselves, the municipality is obliged to help find a job. But does the municipalities do that? No, it is not everywhere they do it, and there you may need to be more open to and be aware that more effort needs to be made to help them find a job. Too many people cannot manage to find a job themselves, and so we just got written into the law that they should be helped to find a job if they could not find one themselves. There is something else that we in the Danish People's Party have done. Because we agree that there are many people in the cash assistance system who should not be there. They're the ones who're sick. Rune Lund also mentioned that if you are ill, you should not be in the cash benefits system at all. That's why we also got the pile turned around and introduced more people to join us. It was a strong demand from the Danish People's Party that we get it started, and there was something with 30,000, and the majority of them have moved on either in jobs or in clarification for early retirement and flexible jobs. Some of them were just hidden away in the cash assistance system. It is the danger of it, if only a service is given without any effort being made, that one is then hidden away in the cash aid system, the sacred tomb is well preserved, no one cares for one, for there is peace and happiness, you get a high performance so that you can manage yourself, instead of being looked at: Is one really the right place where to be? A lot of people weren't, and there the cooperation that has been between the Danish People's Party, the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives has also led us to get a lot of people away from the cash assistance system. We'll continue with that, too. Because we had agreed that, after looking at those who had gone further than five years and who were ill, we should also look at those who had gone between 1 and 5 years, and we continue to do so, and I am quite convinced that we will also find many who should not be in the system at all. But that's why it doesn't stop the effort. In the context of simplification efforts in the Employment Act, we have also made agreements to match the unemployed to those jobs. This means that you also have to go out to the job centre to match cash benefits recipients to available jobs and be ready to give them the qualification they need, and we put our great trust in that will work when that law comes into force. Therefore, if you are to help cash benefits recipients, you have to make an effort to get them into the labour market, help them to find a job, help them to get the courses that are needed, and it is a little lagging behind. I'll be honest with you. It is not so simple to convince everyone that they need to be given more courses and give them more help to find a job. But I believe that comes with the effort being made. Then there's the last new thing that's come today. It is so good that, before we had this debate, we were able to adopt a law on changing the integration allowance into a repatriation allowance and also a self-reliance allowance in this respect. That is to say, from 2020, there is in fact no such thing as an integration benefit. This was the debate we had just before about an integration benefit and a performance commission, but from 2020 there is no longer an integration benefit, so it is a repatriation grant. Why is this happening? It is because there are so many refugees who have come to Denmark who should not be in Denmark at all. After all, they must be helped home to the country from which they come, and it may be that they need help to improve their skills so that they can help to rebuild their country. I'm out of time, and I guess I won't get much more besides reading this proposal for adoption. I could have spent a little longer, but that's always the way it is. On behalf of the Danish People's Party, the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives, I should like to make the following points: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the government and the Danish People's Party, as part of the Job Reform Phase I, have introduced the integration benefit, the ceiling for cash benefits and the 225-hour rule to strengthen the incentive to work while citizens have a reasonable basis for remuneration. In addition, the integration benefit is intended to reduce the number of asylum seekers in Denmark. that the number of full-time persons in the cash benefits system has decreased by 31,900 in the period from April 2016 to October 2018 and that more work alongside their benefits. that the number of asylum seekers has decreased significantly from 21,316 applicants in 2015 to 3,500 applicants in 2018. that the government, the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party have today adopted initiatives to support the transition from stay to departure and return for all refugee groups, including changing the integration allowance to self-residence, return and transitional benefits. The Danish Parliament notes that the Government and the Danish People's Party have no intention of withdrawing the elements from the Job Reform Phase I... V 79).
ParlaMint-DK_20190221162249	Thank you. This is part of the further debate. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221162300	I am here with a debate post that Torben Tranæs wrote in March 2015. At that time he was the research manager of the ROCKWOOL Foundation's research unit, today he is the research director of the SFI. And what he wrote back then, I think, is a very precise description of what cash benefits mean for the lowest wages in our society. He wrote: "Sit down the cash benefits, fall the lowest wages, and set up the cash benefits, the wages rise. It may take time, but it will happen. The existence of cash aid distorts the labour market. There are all kinds of arguments that we have chosen to have the benefit. But the fact that it is creating a distortion of free pay and employment cannot be ruled out. The cash benefits • and this is the important thing here • lays a bottom below what the wages will in practice be on the market. ▪ So when cash benefits have the function of putting a bottom under what wages in the labour market can be; and when you reduce cash benefits, as the Danish People's Party also contributes to, then you also reduce the lowest wages for ordinary people in our society. How's sir? Bent Bøgsted that with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221162413	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221162415	This is a little strange, because we have a clear position in the Danish People's Party that you must not be able to benefit more from being on cash benefits than by taking a job at the minimum wage, the minimum wage, but that, Mr. Rune Lund is saying that it is cash aid that is the reason the trade unions have not negotiated a higher minimum wage home in their collective bargaining. That's it, sir. Rune Lund is saying with this, that cash benefits are the basis for the minimum wage. This means that we can say to FH, Lizette Risgaard: It is because of the cash benefits that you cannot negotiate a larger minimum wage home to your members. I do not think the trade union movement thinks that is why; I do not think that at all. This is such a rather strange way of saying it: it is cash aid that is the reason why the minimum wage is not higher in Denmark. I thought that it was the trade unions who negotiated the minimum wage and that that was what they had achieved in the negotiations with employers, but it is therefore the cash aid that dictates it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221162520	Here you go, sir. Rune Lund, on her way.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221162524	What I am referring to is, in fact, general economic logic in our society, to which Torben Tranæs also refers here, namely that cash aid acts as a base under wages in our society, and that if we reduce cash aid, we will also see a downward trend in the lowest wages. This means that when the Danish People's Party is out to reduce the cash aid, such as for example. If it is the ceiling on cash benefits, then at the same time there is also a downward wage pressure on the lowest wages in our society. This is the logic and the fact that I think the Danish People's Party should relate to. How do you feel about the deterioration in cash benefits that the Danish People's Party is responsible for putting downward pressure on the lowest wages in our society?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221162613	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221162615	But I do not think that we are putting downward pressure on the lowest wages, because the minimum wage should be the lowest wages in Denmark. Of course they are not, because some foreigners have come to work under those salaries, but I do not have to explain them here, and it must be the case that when you negotiate agreements, you do not look for what the cash benefits are; when you sit and negotiate agreements, you look for what the negotiations are about and what you can increase the wages. I do not believe that FH is watching that cash benefits have just been set up, so we also need to have a little more on contractual minimum wage. I don't think that's what they're watching.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221162658	Thank you. Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221162703	Thank you. As far as I hear the rapporteur, the rapporteur welcomes the fact that the ceiling on cash benefits has brought people away from unemployment, as far as I hear the rapporteur. How many exactly have been removed from unemployment by the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule and the integration benefit?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221162719	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221162722	I don't have an exact figure on it. I can't do that by saying a certain number, and I can't do that. Nor can Torsten Gejl, nor can the Minister say an exact and definite figure for how many. Then you had to look at each and every effort that has been made and what has been given to them by jobs. That is why we cannot stand here and say that it has brought just that and so many away. You can't do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221162746	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221162749	No, but you can say, after all, that you expect it to have taken some away. Then it could be exciting to hear how many. Does the rapporteur recognise that, long after the ceiling for cash benefits and the 225-hour rule and the introduction of the integration benefit, there is no evidence whatsoever that it has brought anyone to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221162808	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221162811	Well, I'm pretty sure it's put a lot of work into it because they've received the extra effort that was in the law. It is precisely this that they need a more hand-held effort to get help in finding a job that has helped to get some people into the labour market. We can, for example. See it in Esbjerg, where they as some of the new ones make a more handheld effort for cash benefits recipients. It's also in connection with this. It's all connected in the municipalities. They do what the law says, they have to make a hand-held effort, and that gets a lot of people away from cash benefits. So if you do what the Social Security Act says, I am sure it will have its effect. We can see that it has had in Esbjerg.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221162851	Thank you. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221162856	Well, I definitely think so, sir. Bent Bøgsted is right that there are different mechanisms in the municipalities that make some of these people get to work. But if we are just trying to focus the discussion that we have today on whether it is the amount of benefits that brings these people to work, is there any indication of that? The picture of the people who have left the benefit system in Denmark differs from what we can see, moreover, from countries around us who have a similar improvement in the economic situation? Well, there are some things at all, like mr. Bent Bøgsted like can hang that feeling up on, that is, that someone might get to work? I think there is, too. It should not be said that there is no one, it would be weird and so out in the other ditch. In the past it has been calculated in the Ministry that it was about 600-700 people. Then the rapporteur can, Mr President. Bent Bøgsted put something on it? And then, is there a fair relationship between perhaps having 600-700 people in work faced, how incredibly many people are hit hard by the economic consequences? Is there any reasonable relationship between the two figures?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221163000	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221163002	You can look at the cash benefits ceiling. If you only look at the ceiling separately and not at what is being done by effort on the side to get people away, and if you just leave the ceiling and then say that we are making a cash aid ceiling, but we are making no effort for you on the labour market, we are making no effort to get you into education or retraining for anything, well then I think it is limited how much - the ceiling itself provides. That is why I say that it must be seen in the context of the measures that have been taken and which the Danish People's Party and the government have also taken together with the Social Democracy, namely measures to get people into employment, to get them out into the labour market. This applies to upgrading; it applies to retraining for various things. We are far from done with this effort. We're still out there negotiating what it's gonna be. That goes for all the unemployed. They're not just cash benefits recipients, but they're all available. So the bet that is being made next to a cash aid ceiling helps to make that there are more that come out. But if you just leave the cash aid ceiling and do nothing, then I think it's extremely limited what it's moving.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221163119	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221163122	I think that was an incredibly interesting and significant concession from the Danish People's Party, namely that it is not actually the ceiling itself that does so. I also think that some of the other measures around it are sensible, and there is full support for many of the other measures. But then comes the question: why send 12,500 children into poverty last year because of a ceiling, as Mr. Bent Bøgsted now himself says he has no sense of whether at all works? Well, then it's purely blind approach.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221163149	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221163151	No, I don't think so. But it is because Mr. Karsten Hønge focuses on looking at only the cash benefits ceiling nothing else. The law on cash benefits also contains more than just a ceiling. It contains the measures that need to be taken to help people move on to the labour market, that is to say the effort that needs to be made. That's what's doing it. Because if you just say that we are putting in place a cash aid ceiling, finished, no more, you could make a very short piece of legislation on a few lines. But it is also the effort that needs to be made to help people, which is one of the most important things. Therefore, the Danish People's Party could never dream of just making a law that says that we introduce a cash aid ceiling and then nichts weiter. Excuse my German, that's not so good. But that's all. You can't leave something like that alone, and neither do we. We are making an effort, and we have done this together with the government and social democracy in many areas, and this helps to get people into the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221163256	One cannot then blame anyone for not speaking German, because there is actually Danish speaking from the platform, so it is very fortunate that it is better. Bent Bøgsted Yes, that's it too). Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted. Then the baton goes on to Mr. Hans Andersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221163311	Thank you to the Enhedslisten, the Alternative, Radical and SF for raising this debate, because this gives rise to some facts on the table in a debate that we must say often may contain more emotions than facts. It also gives rise to a debate on what is right and right, and we certainly do not all agree on this. It's not a secret. We have had the debate before, and I have to say that we can really feel that a parliamentary election has been warmed up. The Left has set in motion the huge scaremongering campaign of inequality and poverty. It is awful, one must understand, at least as long as one does not relate to the facts, and when the facts go against the scaremongering, it is good to have some friends in the AE Council and 3F at one side; I understand that 3F is dreaming back to when there were 200,000 more unemployed than there are today, and aid is also close to the debate on poverty. If you follow the poverty line of the Thorning government, which I must understand the Social Democracy wants to restore, then 10,000 children live in poverty in Denmark today, but with the help of the AE Council you can turn the buttons a little, and then it sends the figure up to 64,000. This is a good example of how unmanageable and speechless this debate is often going to be. But let us put aside the scaremongering and emotional facts. First of all, let us agree that we all want the best for our citizens. In the Left, we have no doubt. The best help we can give to the unemployed is a job. We want more children to grow up in a home where Mom and Dad go to work and society to take care of those outside the labour market for a period of time. Nor are we in any doubt that working should make a difference rather than being on public support. It's only fair. That is why we have also introduced the ceiling on cash benefits, the 225-hour rule and the integration benefit. So how'd it go? When we look at the dry numbers and it can be boring, we can see that it's actually been going really well. Month after month, employment sets a record. Since the summer of 2015, around 160,000 private jobs have been created, as many as 31,900 people have left the cash assistance system. It's extremely pleasing. This is especially pleasing for the individual. It is pleasing to the many thousands of children who no longer live in a family where it is cash benefits that you live on, because now your father or mother is going to work. Because, contrary to the impression that the left is trying to give, today the fact is that there are 40,000 fewer children living in a family of cash benefits than there were in April 2016. In addition, we can see that much more cash aid recipients work in small jobs after the introduction of the 225-hour rule, and here too we see a very positive development. On the integration side, too, things are going the right way. Far more non-western refugees and immigrants are going to work, half of non-western immigrant women working alongside cash aid have also increased. Of course, there are several reasons for these nice numbers. There is currently a very good economy, there is economic progress, but government policy certainly also boosters it and gives it wind in the sails. At the same time, we have a reasonable level of benefit that takes care of those who are not part of the labour market for a period of time. A couple who have two children and are on cash benefits actually have 23,800 kroner. After tax in total public services, that is to say, to live for. Finally, let me remind you what one of the consequences was when the Social Democracy was in government and abolished the ceiling on cash aid. After all, it was an increase in the number of people in the cash benefits system of 21,400, and that is the wrong way to go. So the Left continues to support our system of benefits: it is fair, it is balanced and it ensures that there is a noticeable difference in relation to being at work rather than being on transfer income, and it also holds hands under those who are outside the labour market for a period of time. That should be my contribution to the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221163756	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mr. Rune Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221163803	Part of this debate has been about what the Minister for Employment also said it should pay better to work. And then I would like to say a little about what the difference is actually already today, namely the difference between a person receiving cash benefits and a person working for the lowest wage that exists within, for example. the industrial agreement. So I could start by asking Mr. Hans Andersen about what, for example. a cash benefit recipient is receiving today compared to what the minimum wage is in the private labour market today in industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221163840	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221163842	Well, I can tell you that a single social security recipient with two children has about DKK 18,100. After tax, and I think that is a reasonable amount, you can live for that too. And if he then gets a job for a collective wage • not necessarily in industry, because I think that HK's contractual wage is slightly lower • it will actually be a rise of about DKr 3,000. I think that is a reasonable amount and a noticeable difference in income when you go from being on transfer income to being in work. That amount was much lower before we had the cash aid ceiling at that time, I think it was about DKK 900. the month, which was in profit, by going to work, and now it is a significantly greater gain. And I welcome that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221163936	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221163941	I have a point about my question. Because now Mr. Hans Andersen a breadwinner with children, but you could take many other examples, all of which show that already today there is a very large financial gain by going away from cash benefits and then going to work. If we take a single person on cash benefits, it's just about 11,000 kroner. If we take a breadwinner over 30 years on cash benefits, it's just about DKK 14,500. But industry's minimum wage in the industrial agreement is over DKK 18,000. a month before tax, and if we count pensions and holiday money and other things into which should also be included in the total pay package, then we are talking about over 22,000 kroner. a month. Then the rapporteur cannot just go along with what the Minister for Employment said, but can confirm that today there is in fact a huge economic gain in moving from cash aid to employment, and that in this context not only does it increase the difference further, but at the same time poverty massively, that the deterioration which, among other things, has been made. Left stands for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221164048	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221164052	Then I think it is a good thing that we have this debate, because three-quarters of these people who are in the cash aid system are not covered by the ceiling on cash benefits, and it is typically single without children. They are not covered at all by the ceiling on cash benefits, and they have so far benefited from going to work, and so have they today. The challenge is that if you are a single parent and have a number of children, it has in the past only paid 900 DKK. by going to work 160 hours a month. You can figure out for yourself that prize isn't very big. Now we have ensured that that benefit is considerably greater, and that is why I think the ceiling on cash benefits has come to stay. It must ensure that there remains an incentive to actually go to work and work 160 hours a month.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221164139	Thank you, sir. Hans Andersen. There are no more brief comments. Then it's Mrs. Laura Lindahl, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221164150	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the authors of this debate. In the Liberal Alliance, we always want to debate benefits, and we also want to debate the level of benefits in Denmark. And when we are concerned about this issue, we are primarily concerned about how to ensure a society where it is always worth taking a job and where it always pays to take any job rather than to be on public support. When we introduced the cash benefits ceiling, we ensured that the vast majority of Danes, who went from being on cash benefits to going to work, gained a significantly greater gain from it. A married couple with two children, both mother and father on cash benefits, receive DKK 3,200. more a month, if one gets a full-time job for a salary of DKK 18,800, and that's DKK 1,100. more after the cash benefits ceiling. For a single recipient of two children, it is even more, because there is DKK 2,900. more after the cash benefits ceiling. With the 225-hour rule, we have increased the incentive to get a job of fewer hours a week. We see this as something positive, because we believe that a few hours can also be used as a stepping stone to get a better corner in the labour market. So when we're looking at this together, we think that with both the cash benefits ceiling and the 225-hour rule we're going in the right direction. We make it more attractive to get a job. We make it less attractive to be on transfer income. We in the Liberal Alliance think this is a good thing. As far as the integration or repatriation service is concerned, as it is now called, it is about ensuring that there is an increased incentive to take a job when you come to Denmark, but it is also about us thinking that the level should be so low that Denmark is not attractive to travel to for all the migrants in the world. We believe that it makes a difference what level of performance is offered to people who come to our society, and we have also seen that the number of refugees to Denmark has fallen after we have introduced the integration benefit. So in this way it contributes not only to an overall understanding of Denmark as a country to which it is not attractive to travel. Having said all that, it is also about fairness and fairness. We think that there should be a greater gain by taking a job. I do not think anyone is in any doubt that there is a gain in taking a job. It is there, and there has always been, especially for single people without children. We think there should be a greater gain in it, and that is probably where our political differences really are, because what should be the gain? And as the left will shoot us in the shoes how bad do you have to feel while you don't have a job to make sure there's a big gain in it? There we have some political differences and there are probably no doubts as to where the Liberal Alliance stands. We would like to continue to debate the level of benefits. We believe that it is still too high for some target groups. We are particularly pleased with both the ceiling on cash benefits, the 225-hour rule and the return service, as it is now called. We support the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Seligman on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). Bent Bøgsted read.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221164529	Thank you to Mrs Laura Lindahl. Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist as rapporteur for the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221164542	Thank you. That is how you can be able to stand when the timetable is moved in this Chamber. We are currently seeing an accelerating economic inequality in the world, and unfortunately we are also seeing increasing inequality in Denmark. Economic inequality means that poor Danes become poorer, that the vulnerable Danes become more vulnerable, while others get more money between their hands. Economic inequality can be created in many ways, but the most obvious way is to suck up money from the bottom of society to give it to the rest of us. That is what the ceiling on cash benefits, the 225-hour rule and the integration benefit do. It's direct inequality creation. Here you directly take part of the help of the recipients of cash benefits, money they should have spent on medicine, sport for children or yes for food, to use it for tax reductions on e.g. Big cars. We are well aware that there is a tale, especially on the part of bourgeois Denmark, that we will all be richer if the rich become richer: that is the policy of necessity. It's just a fake story. After decades of neoliberal economy, which has moved a lot of money from our welfare societies and from our common community household to the hands of wealthy people, economic equality has not increased. There's been more poverty. The neoliberal economic development creates exposure, social poverty and reverse pattern wrestling, which not only leads to the human tragedies we have heard of so many times, but which are also an extremely bad business for our society in the long term. Yes, the government has made a small billion dollars by introducing the ceiling on cash aid, but the consequences of the impoverishment that has taken place, the social poverty that follows, and the social exclusion that has meant for many thousands of children, make it much more expensive in the long term in terms of social expenditure on health, social affairs, other transfer income, justice, etc. etc. We believe that there should be a rule that said that when a government introduced short-term inequalities-creating welfare savings, it should be forced to estimate the costs it would bring to society in the long term. However, the problems of our employment system go much further than the ceiling on cash benefits, the 225-hour rule and the integration allowance. We have created an employment system based on mistrust, coercion and control, although most people really want to work. According to our calculations, there are so few people who do not want to work that unemployment will never be so high that there will actually be a huge gap in the workforce. Nevertheless, we are making legislation in the employment system which is based on the fact that everyone is cheaters, and when we legislate on this basis, we make life a nightmare for the 99%. of unemployed people who actually want to work. We baptize them, take away their social freedoms, force them into a lot of meetings, seek jobs they will never get, and send them in long rows of activation and internship that can seem completely meaningless to a lot of people. That is why we in the Alternative will use today's enquiry debate to also point out what employment system we want in Denmark, and here our vision is quite clear. We will release the unemployed and the employees in the system with cash assistance without counterclaims. We will make offers voluntary and use the billions from coercion and control to help the unemployed on their feet and closer to the job opportunities that are realistic for the individual. We will make the offers of help and support, qualification and job search so good that the unemployed receive them without being forced. It is experimented with in other parts of the world. Finland has just completed an experiment with cash assistance without counterclaims, and the first evaluations are actually very interesting. The Finnish experiment shows that the 2 000 people who received cash benefits without counterclaims worked as much as those who were subject to the normal activation offers. This suggests that the enormously bureaucratic and expensive activation complex we have established in Denmark is probably completely unnecessary. People would get just as much employment if they were given cash aid without counterclaims and sanctions. At the same time, the unemployed, who received cash benefits without counterclaims, prospered significantly better than those in the normal forced employment system. Well, that's interesting. Personal well-being was perhaps one of the things that could benefit the many activity-ready cash aid recipients who have been put down in help, even though they cannot take a job. So in the alternative, we will continue to work to free the unemployed and the case workers. We are sure that a system of cash assistance without counterclaims will be a really good human business and mean better well-being and quality of life for thousands of Danes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221165040	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. And then it's sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221165052	Thank you. Politicians need to solve problems and not create problems, and I think the government is doing the wrong thing right now. With the integration benefit, the 225-hour rule and the cash aid ceiling, the government is in danger of creating some problems in our society that we will have to deal with for generations. With the three benefits there has been a politically created poverty in Denmark, and I fear that we will feel the consequences of this politically created poverty for many years to come. Every five Danes today experience standing on the edge of or completely outside the community. When people are outside the community, they come together in parallel societies. And it challenges the cohesion of our society. More and more children are growing up in poverty because of the integration allowance and the ceiling on cash benefits. According to the Industrial Council of the Workers' Movement, 64,500 children live in poverty in Denmark, and from 2015 to 2018 alone, the number of poor children increased by 30,000 according to Save the Children. We see in today's Denmark that many families with children do not have enough money for clothes, proper food, children's birthdays and an outgoing life. Research shows that just one year of poverty has major negative consequences for a child's future life in relation to both education and job opportunities. If this development continues, it will have major social consequences, but especially personal consequences, for these children. The Employment Council of the Workers' Movement concludes that a rise in poverty at the beginning of the teenage years leads to a fall in professional income of over 12%. as an adult. This is because children who have experienced poverty in upbringing typically enter the labour market earlier and choose shorter education. The purpose of the services we are discussing today is, at best, to get people into work, and the government's own calculations show that a few hundred more are going to work as a consequence of the lower benefits; many, many more are just becoming poor. I fully agree that we must have as many people in work as possible, but the lower benefits are only effective if the only problem people have is that they lack a job. There are many unemployed, whether refugees or Danes, who have problems other than unemployment. It is people who either do not have the language or the mental strength to do a job. There is a clear need for effort to get newcomers to work, but cutting the benefits of these people is not helping. On the contrary, it creates poverty and distance from the labour market. We must therefore take action with solutions, not with lower benefits, and then we must deal with the fact that many of the people who cannot enter the labour market immediately and who have received very low benefits also have children. And those kids are gonna pay the price. With these services, we risk creating generations of people who are going to do unnecessarily badly. And with the latest financial bill, where benefits are reduced further, some of these children, who are already in relative poverty, will be further affected. This is where the outside world is created, where parallel societies are created. And apparently the government's arithmetic models don't catch these connections, and that's too bad. I have no doubt that a massive investment in people can pay off in relation to the quality of the lives that people get and in relation to society. It costs 1.3 billion. kr. abolishing services, and we have, radically, a fully funded financial bill which sets out the money, and in our 2025 plan, the benefits have also been abolished. After the next elections, the Radical Left will take action against child poverty; we cannot support the continuation of the current government and the direction of the DF, which the figures show has brought more and more children into poverty. That is why we must actively reduce the number of poor children in Denmark after an election. We therefore propose the abolition of poverty benefits. We are going radically to elections to reduce the number of poor children. There have been proposals from the Social Democratic Party to have a benefit commission look at benefits throughout the public subsidy system. We would like to take part in this, but we must take immediate action against poverty while the Commission is working. We must actively improve the situation of children after a choice. We have previously broken the basket for child poverty when we were in government with the Social Democratic Party. We are happy to do so again, especially now that Mette Frederiksen wants to be the prime minister of the children. If, after an election, other good proposals that reduce child poverty quickly and significantly are put forward, we will be happy to discuss these proposals, but our own proposal and wish is to abolish poverty benefits immediately. Let us solve the problems rather than create them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221165525	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221165535	Inequality tears communities apart. Equal societies are doing better in all areas than unequal societies. Poverty is something that hits hard. Just one year of a child's life, which is dragged into poverty, means less chances for later in life to be able to get a youth education. What is interesting here is not to compare poverty in Denmark with poverty in Angola or Equatorial Guinea, as is sometimes done by the bourgeois side; what needs to be done every time you measure the importance of equality and inequality in a society is relative poverty, relative inequality. And we can see that last year alone, the number of poor people is increasing by 12,500 more children below the poverty line. Children of poor parents have 60%. greater risk of becoming early retirement already at the age of 30. Is it worthwhile to work? That question is often asked in these debates. Then I would like to remind you of the ROCKWOOL Foundation's research unit, which shows that cash aid has been eroded over the last 25 years, and now that development is being speeded up and the biggest fall is for single parents. What does it mean to be poor in Denmark? Yes, that means, among other things, that one in five poor people does not take public transport, that almost one in six does not eat three meals a day, that one in seven does not buy prescribed medicines, and that one in eight has difficulty in bearing disability costs. Poor children suffer much more deprivation than other children. One out of every four poor children experiences, among other things. to suffer deprivation in their clothing and footwear. When we then discuss whether economic incentives work, I would say that they do so in some situations. Moving away from economic pressure is a bit like meeting two big thugs on a street, and if you have the opportunity to go around, you probably do, but you only do it if you are actually able to bypass them. The problem with the integration benefit, the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule is that this economic incentive, as we call it, is not only being passed on to people who are actually able to move and take account of a new situation. Possibly some do. I don't know what the number is, it can be 5 per cent, or it can be 10 per cent, I have no idea how many it can be, but it's after all calculations a small number. But all studies show that the majority are unable to move as a result of these financial incentives alone. So when you push people who aren't able to move, what happens then? Yeah, they'll just roll over. Poverty benefits affect tens of thousands of people and a few hundred move. Poverty, on the other hand, leads to apathy, indulgence. With the integration benefit, the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule, it is of course likely that wage formation will be affected in the longer term. This will put pressure on the minimum wage. And then we can stand here again in a few years' time and discuss that now we need to create more distance between benefits and wages, and when wages have fallen, transfer incomes must fall, and then we can let wages fall again. This isn't about mechanical impact. It has been suggested earlier in today's debate that if an integration benefit was introduced, the trade union movement would have to accept lower minimum wages at the next collective bargaining process. That's not how it works. After all, the economic mechanism is not one more at the next collective bargaining process. It actually works a bit the same way as when you open the door to social dumping: getting cheap Eastern Europeans to Denmark does not mean that the next collective bargaining will reduce wages, but slowly, but surely over the years, wages will fall. For SF it is absolutely crucial that everyone gets fair odds in life, and one step on that path would be to decide that we cancel the poverty benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221165958	There is just one brief comment from Mr. Hans Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221170004	Should I understand that the SF is of the opinion that the removal of the ceiling on cash benefits, the 225-hour rule and the integration allowance is a prerequisite for supporting a government led by the Social Democratic Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221170025	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221170026	Yes, it is a demand on the part of the SF to be able to support a government that one gets rid of the poverty benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221170038	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221170039	That is a requirement, it is said. Is that an ultimate requirement? For a claim may well disappear along the way during a negotiation in a black tower ■ we have seen this before in relation to demands that have been made. Is it an ultimate requirement to remove these schemes, i.e. the ceiling on cash benefits, the 225-hour rule and the integration benefit, before the SF can support a possible social democratic government?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221170105	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221170107	Well, that depends on what sir. Hans Andersen means by supporting. This will have a crucial impact on the position that the SF will have in relation to a future social democratic government, and this means, for example, that we will not be what we will then be called a loyal parliamentary support party if the poverty benefits are not changed. It could be pretty. We could get Lars Løkke Rasmussen back, and that makes everything much worse.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221170132	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. Then it's mr. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221170140	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the authors for raising the debate. I think this has been a good debate and an important debate. In the Conservative People's Party, we take the view that you should not be on public support if you can take care of yourself. Of course, it also matters what financial incentives there are or you can put it in another way, namely that it must be worthwhile to work, as several people have also mentioned today. There must be a significant gain from going from cash benefits and passive support to the labour market. It's only fair. That is also why we have introduced a ceiling on cash benefits, a 225-hour rule and an integration benefit, which is now changing its name to a return service. A single mother, who has two children, on cash benefits receives 18,100 DKK. Each month after tax, and in addition to that, there will be room for the day-care institution, which is free of charge. In fact, I think it is a great deal of money, and it is also a level that we can easily be familiar with. We believe that this is a sensible and reasonable amount, but it is true that it is less than what could be obtained in the past. What should also be borne in mind is that it is taxpayers' money that is being spent. And there I just think it makes better sense to help the single mother get a job than to increase the cash aid, but it is a political choice. From 2016 to 2018 there are 31,900 fewer on cash benefits, and never have so many been in jobs in Denmark as today. It must pay to work for everyone, and we, the Conservatives, are also ready to do even more. That is also why, in the tax plan that we launched before Christmas, we proposed increasing the employment allowance so that those with the lowest incomes get more out of work. The very best thing to do for a family and for children is to ensure that there are jobs so that they can take care of themselves. That must be the goal. In 2015, Denmark was a magnet for asylum seekers, and Denmark was among the most attractive countries economically seeking asylum because of our high transfer income compared to other countries, and it should not be so. It is welfare tourism, not real refugees, if you wait to seek asylum until there is a country where it is attractive, but that was it, and that is why we had to do something. We had to tighten up and we introduced the integration allowance because refugees should not go to Denmark because of high public services, but because they need temporary protection for one reason or another. It's worked. Denmark is no longer among the most economically attractive countries to seek asylum in, and the number of asylum seekers has decreased significantly. We must send a clear signal to the refugees who come to Denmark that we expect you to be self-sufficient and that you should not go home on high transfer income. And it matters that you have a gain by going to work. Refugees come into jobs now as never before, and it is very good for integration, it is good for Danish society, and it is good for public spending. In the Conservative People's Party we support the proposal for adoption which the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party read out earlier, and I would just like to end by saying thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221170520	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rune Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221170523	I'd like to ask about that difference between being on cash and being in work. We can take the highest cash benefits you can get and take a breadwinner over 30 years, who gets approx. 15,000 kroner. the month before tax, and compare with the lowest wage we see in industry, which is just over DKK 18,000. a month. In addition, holiday money and other things must be added, so that the minimum wage for industry is in fact about DKK 23,000. a month before tax. So can the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party not just confirm that even before the ceiling on cash benefits was introduced, there was a very, very large financial gain in moving from cash to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221170613	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221170614	I do not know exactly the figures that Mr. Rune Lund is talking about. But I just want to say that for us it is important that there is a significant difference between going home on passive support and then getting up every morning and going to work. There has to be a difference. I think this is quite natural and fair, and I also think it is respect for those who go to work. In other words, to those who work hard, it is also an expression of respect that there is a difference between going home and doing nothing and being in work. Of course there has to be a difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221170645	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221170646	Well, what annoys me in these debates is that it is presented as if it is a huge economy that you have when you are on cash assistance in our society. But what you have to bear in mind is that when you are on cash benefits in our society, you cannot have any values. If you have values of more than 10,000 kroner, you can risk selling your car or having to borrow in your apartment before you can even get cash benefits. Speaking of the levels of cash benefits, I would like to mention that a single person on cash benefits gets just about 11,000 kroner.; a provider over 30 years of age gets just about 15,000 kroner.; a single person under 30 years of age gets something over 7,000 kroner. But industry's minimum wage is over 22,000 kroner. a month. So this whole thing about how it shouldn't pay to go from cash to work is just wrong. That was the point about the ceiling on cash benefits that we now have, but it certainly was before. Can the rapporteur just confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221170744	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221170745	No, but as I say, it's only fair that there's a difference. I understand that when you're on cash benefits, it's not a luxury life, of course, but it shouldn't be like that. In other words, it should be borne in mind that those who are on cash benefits are financed by all those who go to work. So the money comes from somewhere they're not being conjured out of the ground. I think we should respect those who stand up and go to work every day. And, of course, there must be a difference between going on passive support and getting up and going to work every day.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221170816	Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221170818	Sir. Anders Johansson's speech, however, aroused my curiosity because Mr. Anders Johansson a few times made a direct link between the decrease in the number of asylum seekers in Denmark and then the lower integration benefit. But does the rapporteur have anything else to build on? Does it have anything to do with the agreement with Turkey? Or does it have anything to do with the agreement with the countries of southern Europe? How does this clutch get in? And what does Mr. Anders Johansson to build it seriously when he makes the direct clutch?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221170852	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221170852-2	Back under the previous government, there were significantly higher benefits if you came here as an asylum seeker. I think it is a completely wrong signal to send to asylum seekers: if you come to Denmark, you can come on a high public support. Actually, we don't expect you to go out and take a job and support yourself. If you removed this integration benefit, a family who came here and sought asylum would get 10,000 kroner. more per month paid out • DKr 120,000. more a year. I think it is quite the wrong signal to send out that you should just come to Denmark and seek asylum, and you can also live on public support. I think that is quite wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221170930	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221170932	Yes, yes, and all due respect to Mr. Knox. Anders Johansson's feelings. But it's just feelings, sensations: I think... I think I'm thinking..., I don't think that's how..., think of a number! Where is the link between the decline in the number of asylum seekers and the introduction of lower benefits? Has it fallen, sir? Mr Johansson said that it might be more related to the agreement with Turkey and the agreement with the countries of southern Europe? Where's the factual coupling, sir? Anders Johansson?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221170957	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221170959	Of course, it matters what public support you get when you come to a country. It is well known that Denmark was at the top of the list. We stayed out on the parameters, compared to where it was best to apply for asylum, and there I just don't think Denmark should lie. Denmark should be where we say: If you come to Denmark, we actually expect you to support yourself. That's what's working. We can see that 43%. Of the refugees coming to work now. It is historically high and it also shows a little that we are heading in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221171032	Thank you, sir. Anders Johansson. And then we have actually reached the Minister for Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221171044	Thank you for the debate, which did not necessarily bring out much new, but nevertheless it brought out the new, that the parties that had to support Mette Frederiksen, in the event that Mette Frederiksen was to become Prime Minister, have once again announced today that abolishing the cash aid ceiling and the 225-hour rule is not a particularly important issue, because it will not be an ultimate demand. We have also seen this repeatedly in consultation, that is to say that it is something we are talking about. But when you get the question, whether it is a requirement, if you want to support Frederiksen, that the Socialist Government should then accept that you have to have a system other than what is today, then there will be an answer that it is not anyway. One can, of course, be wiser along the way, and I would not rule out the fact that Enhedslisten could come to the conclusion that one would then make it as an ultimate requirement. But we still have to give an answer to that. On the part of the Social Democrats, it could be noted that the Socialist rapporteur is still talking about a service commission. There is, of course, at the moment virtually nothing that, according to the Social Democratic Party, should not be examined in a Commission or the subject of a trialogue, and this is something that the Social Democrats simply owe to public opinion. I have no doubt for a second that what it covers is, of course, that what the Social Democratic Party has to achieve is that it is going to increase the benefits. I think that will be the conclusion, and we have, as it were, already been told today in an answer to Mr Tugendhat's question. Hans Andersen, that is to say that the housing subsidy must at least be higher for those who may live in the larger cities, and I also believe that the Social Democracy will achieve what Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen also mentioned that a new service system would be introduced when this commission had to be completed at some point. So basically, there are two ways to go. One can continue along the path which the government and the governing parties and the Danish People's Party have set up, namely a road where it pays to work, where there is progress in Denmark, where fortunately there is also a difference between being in work and being on transfer, or one can choose the other way, which will mean that one will see that, unfortunately, the benefits will be put up to great harm for those who are then in work and that there will not be the same difference between making an effort and not making an effort. But it has not, in fact, made me so much wiser than that we have now reasserted the political markings, which is why I am also looking forward to voting on the proposal for adoption which has been put on the table by the governing parties and the Danish People's Party and for which I would also like to sign. This is a wise and proper proposal for adoption, which also cements the policy pursued by the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221171354	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rune Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221171355	Earlier in the debate, we have already mentioned that the Minister for Employment has been unable to provide any evidence that poverty benefits have had an effect on people moving from support to employment. There may be an effect; it has not been documented so far. But what we can at least see is actually a rather interesting answer to the Parliamentary Employment Committee, and that is the answer to Question 7, alm. the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior, and it is submitted by Finn Sørensen. And the question is asked: How many people are there today who will get no more than 2,000 kroner. From support to employment? And there we can see that it's just about 44,000 people. But the interesting thing is to look at how many of those who are fully employed are in work anyway. Actually, it's 91 percent. Does it not also say that, although there is not really a very narrow economic incentive to take a job, people do so anyway because there are opportunities for development because they enter the labour market, because they get more pensions at some point in time? Does it not also mean that the merely hitting people on their purses and creating increased poverty creates more poverty, but it does not necessarily have any effect on moving more people from support to employment?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221171537	Thank you. Then it's the minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221171540	I would like to try to give an answer to Mr. Rune Lund. That question was hard to understand. That was more of a comment, but let it be. Well, sir. Rune Lund is preoccupied with saying that it doesn't make any difference whether you have one type of service or the other, and that it doesn't matter whether it's high or low. Of course it makes a difference, and I have to say to Mr. Knox. Rune Lund, that if it would be so important for Enhedslisten to change the benefits, would it be an ultimate requirement to support Mrs Mette Frederiksen? And there is the answer: it is important to talk about, but in the end it will be a thank you but no thank you. Because you don't dare stand firm on your politics!
ParlaMint-DK_20190221171644	Sir. Rune Lund gets the chance again.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221171646	We have given ourselves the opportunity to make ultimate demands, both in terms of the formation of government and after, but I also think I would say that if we end up doing so, the Minister for Employment is probably not the first to know. But the Minister for Employment will find out. In relation to the fact that people are on the breadwinner, the discussion is very much about saying: there are 44,000 people for whom it is not worth taking a job because they will get less than 2,000 kroner. the month out of it by moving from support to employment. That debate is going on. But then it is just incredibly interesting how many of them are then fully employed. And there are a great many of them who are, and that just says something about the fact that even among those where it is hardly financially profitable, and it is in fact the benefit recipients we are talking about here is 91 per cent. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal. I think that is an important piece of information to get here, and that must also support the point that it is certainly not only the economy that causes people to take a job. And when you swing the whip and hit people on the economy, you get poverty. But do you get more in employment for that reason? No, apparently not, not very many at least.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221171756	Perhaps the Minister will answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221171758	I'd like to try again. Well, we're basically in deep disagreement. Enhedslisten has the principle that greater and higher public services are good because it encourages people to work. I have the other view that I think there should be an incentive. This does not mean that you should not have a public service. You have to have a fair public service, but you should not have too lucrative public services. That is not the way forward. It is for the Enhedslisten, and then we shall see if it is also for the Enhedslisten in the event that Mrs Mette Frederiksen can form a government. I think it might as well be said to the puzzling public that Enhedslisten is jumping up and has very, very big thoughts. But when we are going to support Mrs Mette Frederiksen, we are not going to make it as an ultimate requirement anyway. But I'd like to give Mr. Rune Lund the opportunity to tell the Danish people here before an election. That would be interesting.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221171850	Well, it's not gonna be right now, 'cause now it's sir. Julius Graakjær Grantzau, Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221171856	Thank you. I have had the pleasure of just sitting down here listening a little bit and getting so curious to ask the Minister how high the allowance should be before the Minister himself finds the lucrative enough for him to quit his job and go on cash benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221171912	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221171913	Yes, it was a very alternative question. After all, there are many ways of calculating ministerial bills. I would like to say that if I figure out my hourly salary, I think I could find another similar job which would actually be better paid. But what the debate has been going on here today, and I assume that the member of the Alternative has followed it eagerly from the office, is whether to abolish the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule. The government doesn't think so. In fact, we think it is common sense and we think it is sensible that there is a difference between being in the benefit system and having a job.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221171954	Yes, sir. Julius Graakjær Grantzau. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221172000	Thank you. I'm in on that deepening. It is just because it is constantly being put forward as an argument today, including by the Minister himself, that if the benefit gets too high, then you do not want to work, then there is a tendency that people would rather be on this benefit. Then I was just curious to hear what it takes to get the minister in his job to get away from working so much and still have a fair performance. It was like challenging that idea that only the economy matters. I am not going to put anything in the Minister's mouth, but at least that is how I feel myself. There are other reasons for wanting to go to work than the economy. It's not just the amount of benefit that matters.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221172043	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221172044	I don't think I'm getting any closer than the answer I gave earlier.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221172050	We are therefore grateful to the Minister. And then, sir... Rune Lund wanted a rounding remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221172101	Thank you. Thank you for today's debate and special thanks to the Alternative, the Radical Left and the SF for being co-initiators of this debate and helping to raise the extremely important issue of the poverty benefits we have received in our country, which are, after all, about the ceiling on cash benefits, the integration allowance and the 225-hour rule, and now the proposal for the even lower benefit in the form of the so-called'self-support and return' and 'transitional' allowance. These are benefits which mean that thousands of people are being thrown into poverty; benefits which mean that child poverty is increasing; we are now up to 64,500 poor children in our country. We are dealing with a government and a support party, the Danish People's Party, which does not intend to fight poverty by rolling back these benefits. On the contrary, we have heard those parties stand and praise how wonderfully good it is that poverty has exploded to new heights, while at the same time it has had no effect on employment at all. There has been a discussion in the past as to whether these poverty benefits could not have caused more people to get to work, but it must also be said that the rapporteurs of the bourgeois parties have been very reluctant at least today to say that it has had the effect of making so many thousands of people in our country poor. However, we could see that at the beginning of March last year, in 2018, it was linked in a slightly different way. After all, the government claimed that 600 more people had entered work because the government had carried out the so-called job reform 1 with among others. the introduction of the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule. The problem was simply that it was wrong that it was not true, so that the government presented figures which were quite wrong and deeply misleading, and it had to end up withdrawing it, when, like the debate that had taken place, it realised to a moony population that it was not possible to prove that there had been more people working as a result of the cash benefits ceiling and the 225-hour rule. Contrary to the government's spin and disinformation, the deterioration of cash aid and thus the impoverishment of unemployed and sick people is not fantasy. This is the harsh reality for thousands of citizens in our country, and it must also be said that the manipulation of figures that has taken place in the debate in the past, and which we may soon have to witness again, is an insult to the many people who are affected. In today's debate we have also discussed the difference between being on cash aid and being in work, and it has to be said that bourgeois Denmark is consistently trying to present it as if there were a very, very large economic advantage in it, that is to say that you had to live extremely well by being on cash aid compared to being in work. That's the picture you're trying to draw. It has been somewhat more subdued in this Chamber, it has to be said, than we sometimes see it in the media, both electronically and in writing. But let us now address the facts, because I think it is important to conclude the debate by actually identifying the difference between being on cash aid and getting what is the minimum wage in industry. A single person on cash benefits gets just about 11,000 kroner. A breadwinner over 30 years of age receives approx. 15,000 kroner. A single parent under the age of 30 gets approx. 14,000 kroner, and a single parent under the age of 30 gets just about 10,000 kroner. What, then, is the minimum wage for industry? Well, it's over 18,000 kroner. All these numbers are before taxes. And if we also retire at 8%. In addition, if we add holiday holidays and holiday money, we will reach a minimum wage in industry, which is just about DKK 23,000. before tax, that is, many times above the level of cash benefits, no matter what cash benefits we are talking about. This is true of the current rules, but it was also true before the ceiling on cash benefits was introduced. I have also noticed something in the debates we have. When we had the 2015 election, the government had a lot to say: it has to pay to work. When the Minister for Employment stands on the platform today, the Minister for Employment says that it should pay better to work. This has, as it were, got into the language of the government, because it is quite well known that this is the case today, but it was true even then, before the introduction of poverty benefits, that there was a very big difference between being on cash and being in work. What remains is that we need a new majority and a new policy. It is a pity that once again today we were unable to obtain a concrete commitment from the Social Democratic Party to abolish the benefits which the Social Democratic Party itself was opposed to introducing. It has to be parked in a performance committee. I understand that we would like to make some adjustments to the benefits while this Commission is working, and then the obvious question is: why not just roll back the poverty benefits and start from that point instead of inventing all sorts of new grip in the year that I understand needs to go while the Service Commission is working? But I am glad that the Enhedslisten, the Alternative, the Radical Left and the SF are very clear that these services must be abolished. And I know the ultimate demands or not; now we have to see how things end up: this will be a very important issue for all the four parties in the opposition, in the hope that after the next parliamentary elections there will be not only a new government but also a new policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221172708	Thank you, sir. Rune Lund. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I would like to point out once again that the vote on the proposals for adoption, as I have said, will not take place until Tuesday 26 February 2019. The next item on the agenda is a first reading, which means that we should move slightly from question to first reading, now sitting in our own seats.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221172729	We're gonna start the negotiations, and that's Mr. Knox. Jens Joel, the Social Democrat who starts. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221172808	Thank you. Sir. Rune Lund is a tall man. It's not that often I have to put the desk down any further before I start. This proposal is part of the fight against tax evasion. Unfortunately, we know that the Treasury in Denmark, the rest of Europe and other countries in the world are missing millions of kroner because there is speculation about moving profits or placing money outside the reach of the tax authorities. The draft law we are discussing today is about enabling an international convention to be incorporated and used into our double taxation agreements, and the international convention has been developed under the international auspices of the OECD and is about combating this by moving profits around to where tax is most advantageous and hollowing out the tax base. Double taxation agreements are also a good idea. It is often easier for business to have such things. It is also to ensure that you do not pay tax in two places, or what is even worse for the Treasury that you do not pay tax anywhere. That is why it is important to have double taxation agreements, and we would like to have them, but when you have them, they must of course also be robust with regard to exploitation and tax speculation. We welcome the fact that there is steam on the boilers in terms of taking action against international tax evasion, and we also welcome the fact that, at the initiative of our and the other opposition parties, the government has succeeded in gearing up the agreement, among other things. In 2017, further efforts were made to combat tax evasion. But of course it is clear that part of the task is also to ensure that the tax authorities have the necessary staff, and we in the Social Democratic Party also have a bid to do so, namely that more hands are needed. In addition to what we can do at home, I think it is positive that the international convention is now included in our double taxation agreements. Social democracy can support the proposed bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221173038	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221173045	I will start with a minor correction, because what sparked up the fact that a few years ago we made an agreement on tax havens was actually a joint proposal for the adoption here in the Folketing of Social Democracy and the Danish People's Party and not a unified opposition. It ended up with the whole Folketing actually going together and making a deal. It was quite positive that we could stand together in this. I think it could end up with this bill, which is, of course, about avoiding tax erosion and profit relocation. One of the tools we use is among other things. our double taxation agreements, and that is a very good tool. After all, we are building our agreements on the standard that the OECD has, and with this new convention they have then updated their standard that we are going to use forward-looking. But I think that one of the important things in this convention is that it should also be changed backwards. If two countries are going to change that today, they will have to negotiate each and every one of them, and if we have enough agreements with about 100 countries or more, it is something that will take a great many years, but there is something that will help to make it a little more flexible to have more robust double taxation agreements, as the previous rapporteur also said. That's really positive. Where it can be difficult with this bill is in relation to the scope of it, because when you say yes to this, you also change all the other double taxation agreements that we have dealt with here in the Folketing. I find it difficult to fully understand the consequences of this down in the chain. That is why, as a member of parliament, you have to make some reservations. But I feel a little reassured by the fact that there are so many countries that seem to agree to this convention. That is quite positive. We fully support the international efforts against tax erosion and the relocation of profits, and we also think it is very good that this is done under the auspices of the OECD and that there is not so much emphasis on it being within the EU, with the argument that the OECD is a broad forum with which there are really many countries. What makes it strong is that in this way international agreements can be drawn up with as many countries as possible. We think that is a good thing. So we support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221173253	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Joel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221173256	It's just to correct myself. I was so reckless to include the Danish People's Party in the opposition, in that the Danish People's Party is not part of the government, and I fully agree that the initiative to take a hard stand against tax evasion was also an initiative that the Danish People's Party was behind.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221173313	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221173314	That's right. There's not much to answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221173318	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then we have come to Mrs Louise Schack Elholm as rapporteur for the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221173324	Thank you very much. After all, it is funny that everyone should take credit for something happening when this left-wing government, in cooperation with the Conservative and Liberal Alliance, has now taken a great deal of action in the field of taxation. Not only have we set over 13 billion. kr. extra to rebuild the IRS, which was at its knees when we took it over. Significantly more staff have been employed. I believe, if I remember correctly, that some 2 000 additional staff have been recruited. An anti-fraud unit has been created, and we have made agreements that we have implemented on international tax evasion under the auspices of BEPS and other things. So a great deal has happened recently in the field of taxation, and that is under a left-wing government. Well, then I'm glad that there are a lot of people who feel ownership of these things that are being done. We are also trying to obtain a broad majority in favour of this, and I think it would be a good thing if we all worked together in the Folketing to avoid tax fraud. Now to the specific legislative proposal. The Left is also in favour of us constantly focusing on having double taxation agreements that ensure that we have the opportunity to trade with other countries and that we avoid fraud. That is why we have made an effort to develop our double taxation agreements, get them with more countries and modernise those that are. What we are actually doing here is ratifying a multilateral convention drawn up under the auspices of the OECD and the G20 to avoid tax erosion and excess relocation. I think that will be very positive, and it will be another step out of the many that have been made over the last four years in the field of taxation, to ensure that we avoid the tax fraud that we have seen too much of recently and which we in the Left are doing everything we can to get rid of. I have to say that Conservatives and Radicals do not have the opportunity to be here, so on behalf of V, K and RV I have to say that everyone supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221173520	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Next in line, sir. Rune Lund as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221173530	This bill is, of course, a bill in which Enhedslisten supports the ambition to implement the so-called BEPS standards in our double taxation agreements in order to combat tax erosion, and that you can move profits around and thus, as it were, fiddle to a lower tax than the one you should pay if you are a company. The BEPS project in the OECD is, after all, a very important piece of work in order to combat the aggressive tax planning of companies in particular. We fully agree with the general direction and, overall, it is also our clear impression that the draft law is sensible in relation to the multilateral convention as regards the reservations that need to be made. However, it is also a somewhat technically complex area of substance, it must be said, which very much justifies a technical review, also in the light of the comments made by Mr Beyer de Ryke. Dennis Flydtkjær had, in relation to the consequences this will have for already concluded double taxation agreements. In addition, we will at least also ask a number of questions from the Enhedslisten, because we think that the consequences in several places can be a little unclear. We've looked at two places where we think you could take a closer look at it. For example: We differ in the future from the very clear criterion of taxation: that it should be where the real management is located. It is now broader and needs to be negotiated between the countries concerned. And what do you actually gain from this change, and don't you just make the process longer and more difficult? Or what exactly is the consequence of that? In addition, we also think that it would be good to clarify whether it is necessary to define more clearly the competences of the new arbitration and its status in relation to Danish tax rulings. We can see that the government here has chosen to make a reservation, but we really want to be quite sure what that reservation really means in practice. These are very technical things that lie in this draft law, but it can of course have a major impact on the tax payment that will subsequently fall to our country in the already existing double taxation agreements that we have concluded. So even if it is a heavy area of substance, and even if it is up to an early election campaign, and although we are on the basis of a very positive approach, we would therefore call for a technical review of this bill, because there may potentially be some quite significant consequences for tax payments in connection with existing and concluded double taxation agreements that Denmark has with other countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221173830	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Well, that's the ride to sir. Joachim B. Olsen as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221173836	I'll make it quick. We support the bill. The MLI Convention is implemented as Danish law, which makes it easier to update double taxation agreements. That is basically quite reasonable and we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221173856	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next one on the platform is sir. Julius Graakjær Grantzau as rapporteur for the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221173903	Thank you. I will also be brief. First of all, I should like to congratulate the government, which the rapporteur on the Left also proposes that we should be able to do when there is a basis for doing so. And I think that in the area of taxation, the government is doing some very good work and has done very good work to strengthen the tax area and, in particular, focused on this tax havens and money transactions across borders. So I think that is really positive. It is also positive when we can work with other countries, and that is the case with this bill, namely that we are implementing an agreement based on the work of the OECD. And in the alternative, we are very happy when we can work internationally and across borders. And as is also pointed out by the Danish People's Party and Enhedslisten, this is something that, as a private member of the Danish Parliament, you may have a little difficulty in seeing through the consequences of that I have at least. And as the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party says: in relation to all the existing agreements we have, what exactly will be the consequences of our saying yes to this? But overall it works well, and it could be interesting to review it. But we support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221174022	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. The next is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen as rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221174038	In the SF, we also support this bill. We think there are a lot of good elements in it. There are some things that several of my colleagues have also mentioned, which we would like to clarify, for example, that the provisions of the Convention are essentially incorporated in the OECD's model of double taxation agreements, and that they should thus largely form the basis for future double taxation agreements. We would like to clarify what is to a large extent meant by this. We would also like to know in the committee's work whether this accession to the Convention in any way weakens some of Denmark's opportunities to ensure taxation of income. In general, these are austerity measures, good austerity measures, we can clearly see this, but we also want to clarify whether there are situations where we can risk reliefs that we do not want. The legal text also says that we can want the government to promise that it will, but we are very positive about it, and I am sure that we can clarify the issues we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221174205	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221174211	Thank you. I would like to thank you for the positive reception given to the draft law. Then it says in my speech paper that I should also like to thank you for the debate that has taken place, but there has been no one. There has been a problem with the proposal, and I shall deal with that in the course of my speech here. However, in general terms, I would like to thank you for the good tone of debate in the area of taxation when we deal with proposals in this Chamber. As a number of rapporteurs have also mentioned, this proposal is about improving and modernising Denmark's network of double taxation agreements in a simple and efficient way, or rather to those of the listeners who should not be aware of it: double taxation agreements are about how to avoid double taxation, so that you are not taxed both in country A and in country B, so you have a model, after which you share the tax that has to be paid according to the fair model, and that is always the question of what is fair. However, double taxation agreements are something that I attach great importance to. This benefits us in many ways. This ensures security for companies, and it applies to citizens who live in other countries and move to Denmark or from Denmark, and this applies to the tax authorities. We will need more double taxation agreements in the future because we live in an increasingly globalised world. This particular globalisation means that we must ensure that Denmark is at the forefront of having double taxation agreements, so that we not only expand the network we have, but also maintain the existing network of double taxation agreements, where some have very many years on the back. The world does not stand still and conditions change over time. The provisions that could be accepted in a double taxation agreement perhaps 20,30 or 40 years ago after the circumstances of that time are not necessarily acceptable today. You can, for example. We have fought in Denmark for very special provisions on shipping companies. We will not do that anymore, because we have now introduced a slightly more free-trade or free competition approach, but in the past special considerations were also taken into account in double taxation agreements. Therefore, it is necessary that existing DBOs can be reconsidered so that we can keep up with developments and avoid DBOs being used in other ways than were intended. The conclusion of a new DBO can be both time-consuming and essential, and it can also be time-consuming and radically changing an already existing DBO when it comes to a protocol of amendment. That is why, as several rapporteurs have said, it is a good thing that we have what we call the MLI Convention, which is, of course, an instrument which enables us to update already existing DBOs in a quick and effective manner in some important areas, without necessarily leading to the negotiation of bilateral protocols of amendment with individual countries. At the time of this bill, 87 countries and jurisdictions signed the Convention. There will certainly be more, and out of these 87 countries, 19 have already ratified the Convention, which is what we are doing with this bill. Now you have to be careful about using too big a word, but I would venture to claim that it is important and essential that the countries of the world are united in this, and I think it is a great thing that this is happening and a clear demonstration that there is indeed a will and also a growing will across borders and continents to address the challenges faced in the field of taxation as a result of increasing globalisation. Incarnate pessimists may say that the Convention is of limited importance, since countries have the option of opting out of most of the provisions. The countries are only bound by the so-called minimum standards. That is true, but it does not change the fact that a number of countries agree to use one or more elements of the Convention in their mutual DBOs, and then this will apply between the countries concerned without having to take any further action. After all, this is progress. It was once said in the political debate that if two people start at City Hall Square and set a course for Roskilde, they can follow the first piece, although one of them only goes to Glostrup. The same picture can be used about the bill we are dealing with here. The government proposes that Denmark chooses the whole MLI package, and we hope, of course, that as many countries as possible do the same. The MLI elements have now also become part of the OECD model for DBOs, and I find it difficult to see the reason why the full package should not be chosen. Things sometimes take time, we know that. We must not do the best for the enemy of the good, and we cannot insist that other countries here and now walk with us all the way to Roskilde, but we can of course encourage them to do so. Finally, I should like to make the point that, as Minister for Taxation, I have an active and ambitious desire to develop and maintain Denmark's network of double taxation agreements. Over the years here in the Danish Parliament, there has been positive cooperation and a broad political consensus on the area of double taxation, and I have been pleased with this. And I hope that the broad consensus will last in the vote on this proposal. In relation to the two questions that have been submitted, I can say to Mr. Rune Lund, that we would of course like to run for a technical review • I think that's really fine, no problem in it. That is just what the committee should want, and we will, of course, be standing up for it. Then there is the question of why reservations have been made. There I can say that it is possible to make various reservations about the application of the Convention's part on the arbitration clause, and one of the Danish reservations is that it is the EU directive and not the Convention that is to be applied to cases where another EU country is involved. In this way, the arbitration clause of the MLI Convention will only apply to non-EU countries. In other words, we think that the system of arbitration in the European Union is better to use than the MLI Convention. So that is the reservation we have made. And I believe that this is a reservation taken by a large number of EU countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221174828	Thank you, Minister. There are no questions. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221174844	The debate is open. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). Jens Joel as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221174904	Thank you. The bill we are now discussing is part of the energy settlement from last summer. It is also the very famous/famous Annex 1 of the Electricity Tax Act, and it is about the fact that with this amendment we are allowing a number of liberal professions to get the same low electricity tax that some typically more energy-intensive companies have had so far. Equality has the advantage, in addition to helping a number of companies, by having to pay less in tax, that we also avoid the EU looking at the difference in tax and perhaps seeing the low tax as an aid to certain companies, and that cannot be done if they are in crisis. Therefore, one might risk that some of those who have had a low tax for a long time and for good reason would in fact be forced to raise the tax and pay more if they were then in trouble. Of course we want to avoid this, while at the same time it has been a strong wish of a number of those who were not covered by the low tax to come up with a lower tax. In addition, there are a number of adjustments to the environmental and energy taxation laws that result from the requirements to ensure State aid or to ensure the future, to illustrate and perhaps, in fact, to make it more transparent, how to avoid engaging in conflict with EU State aid rules. Social democracy also supports as part of the energy conciliation on the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221175044	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next speaker is Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221175052	Thank you. As has been said, this is the implementation of the June 2018 Energy Agreement, which we in the DF are also part of, which is why we support the bill as a whole. After all, it is a question of abolishing this annex, which was to the Electricity Tax Act, which made the liberal professions pay a higher rate. It is, after all, a good thing that we are doing this. They're getting cheaper power, but I really think that the reason we're taking this action is quite grotesque. It is, of course, about the fact that the European Union has told us that if you have companies in crisis, they must not get a lower rate, that is to say those on this annex, which means that if there is a company in crisis, you simply have to raise the tax and then push it over the edge so that they will certainly not make it. It is then a strange logic to have in the European Union that firms in difficulty simply have to have higher taxes than a similar competing company that operates, so that they help to push companies the last step beyond the edge. I think that is quite fair and good that we in the Folketing do not think that is the way it should be, and we will solve that by removing this Annex 1 to the Electricity Tax Act. However, it is a strange thing that because of the state aid rules there are some companies in crisis that are considered to have State aid, perhaps on an equal footing with all other companies in the same sector, but because they are in crisis, they must no longer get the low rate of flow, and then you must destroy it completely for them and make it even harder to survive. This is completely crazy EU legislation. After all, it is positive that we here in the Danish Parliament will get it right, so that we do not get into these grotesque situations where companies in difficulty have to be pushed all the way over the slope. We therefore support this bill from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221175234	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next in line is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm as rapporteur for the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221175241	Thank you for the floor. In the Left, we are constantly working to remove and relax the taxes that we believe are distorting for Denmark and our competitive edge, and that is why we have abolished the PRS tax, we have lowered NOx This bill, as previous rapporteurs have also said, is implementing part of the energy agreement, and that is the part that concerns the electricity tax for the liberal professions, for example. lawyers and architects who can now get it calculated at the low rate, namely the process flow charge, as well as other VAT-registered professions. In addition, as the previous rapporteur also said, the draft law makes clear that tax reductions can only be achieved by companies that comply with the rules of the European Commission's State aid legislation. As the Conservatives and Radicals do not have the opportunity to be here, I have to say on behalf of V, K and R that we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221175342	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Next in line, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221175356	The Enhedslisten supports the bill because it is part of the energy agreement, but it is not because it is a good legislative proposal. There were some processes during these negotiations up to the Energy Agreement, where Enhedslisten was not in all the meetings, and I think it helps that there are some things in the Energy Agreement that could have been significantly better. There is a very good consultation response from the Ecological Council. This bill then results in a loss of revenue of 350-400 million. kr. a year for the Treasury. Well, honestly, how could we make the most of that money? Could it not be better for us in Denmark to bet more on, for example. research? Then we are also where there is not the same incentive to make energy savings when you have lower taxes on electricity. It could also be a good thing to help business to reduce their energy consumption. That would, of course, reduce their costs. Now we have a legislative proposal that reduces some taxes, which then makes it less worthwhile to make energy savings. We in the Enhedslisten think this is a huge shame, because if you look at what is of potential for energy savings in business, they are huge. And there are masses of energy savings that are not being made because you look too short-sightedly at the solutions. When you implement this bill, it becomes even less profitable to make energy savings in business. I think it's a shame you've gone this way. I can see that you may have some sort of EU problem in this matter, and that will then be resolved in a very expensive way. We know that we are in the energy agreement, but this is one of the thistles of the energy agreement that we do not like, but we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221175551	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. Joachim B. Olsen as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221175600	Thank you. Of course, we also support the bill. This is a tax relief here. In fact, we tried to repeal Annex 1 of the Electricity Tax Act at the first negotiations after the last elections, as we were not yet in government I think it was in the context of the growth and business package. At that time, we were told that this could not be done, probably because of something EU law. But then it came into play for the energy agreement, and it was also agreed and is now being adopted, and we are, of course, very happy about that because it means that a large number of companies have to pay a little less in tax. And it's always good.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221175651	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. Julius Graakjær Grantzau as rapporteur for the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221175659	Thank you for that, President. After all, it is good to see how happy the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance can be when tax relief is on the table. You can't help but get infected by that smile. In the alternative, we may be less happy with this bill. As was also pointed out by Enhedslisten, the reduction of an electricity tax may be problematic in relation to the incentive to switch to green energy as well. But now, as has also been pointed out, this is part of a larger agreement, which we are also included in the Energy Agreement in the Alternative, which is why we naturally also support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221175750	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen as rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221175807	SF is also part of the Energy Agreement and therefore supports this bill, of course, but just as it is for my colleagues in the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, this is definitely not one of the things we are most excited about in the agreement that was made. I would also like to say that I agree with the rapporteur of the DF, who pointed out that the fact that firms in difficulty must not be dealt with nationally may be that there is an external crisis. We simply do not agree with that. This also applies to the comments that have been made about the lack of incentives to make energy savings. Having said that, however, we naturally support the draft law. It's self-evident.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221175906	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221175914	Thank you. I would like to thank you for the positive reception of the draft law, which is not so surprising, since it is the achievement of an energy conciliation which was concluded before the summer recess and in which all parties are involved. So I would be very surprised if someone stood up and said that they could not support the bill. Then it would de facto mean that they were no longer part of the settlement. I'd think that's too bad. As I said, we agreed in the energy conciliation to repeal Annex 1 to the Electricity Tax Act from 2023 onwards. In the government we wanted to do this earlier, but we must also recognise that in our proposal we could not find sufficient funding to do so earlier. There were some things we and the contracting circle wanted to prioritize. From 2023, the liberal professions listed in Annex 1 to the Electricity Tax Act will be able to obtain the low percentage on an equal footing with the other VAT-registered professions. And the liberal professions are accountants, architects etc. They will therefore go from paying a very, very high rate to paying a relatively low rate. So, although it may not be those industries where electricity means a lot as a cost to their business, it amounts to a fairly large total amount, with which we lighten the electricity tax for these industries. This will lead to a marked relaxation for the professions involved and make it cheaper to operate in Denmark. By the way, I think it's something historic I've been asking at the Treasury that it's just these professions that's been going on, because at some point amusement parks were also there. It is a very old annex, and I believe that no one today can explain precisely why this distinction has been made at the time. So it is high time, especially when it is difficult to defend why this division is there, that we have the annex repealed. Unfortunately, the European Commission considers the low process tax in the Electricity Tax Act to be State aid. Therefore, the low rate must not be used by firms in difficulty under the EU State aid rules. The repeal of Annex 1 avoids the possibility that Danish companies in difficulty will have to pay a higher electricity tax than they do today. Moreover, according to the Commission's State aid act, firms in difficulty must not receive aid in the form of tax reductions which cannot be achieved by all undertakings. In this context, it is also proposed to adapt a number of other environmental and energy taxation laws which involve State aid in order to prevent firms in difficulty from receiving State aid in the form of these tax reductions. This is a demand which the Commission, with the Danish Commissioner in the lead, has insisted on and I believe that there will be unequal competition in this way instead of what we could imagine was the intention of our state aid rules, namely to ensure equal competition. I have to say: I do not understand that I have been trying for a long time to change these rules, and it is still my hope that the rules can be changed in the longer term so as to avoid a legal situation which further worsens the economic situation of firms in difficulty and that is the EU rules that ultimately contribute to the bankruptcy of a company. To put it bluntly: if a company is in difficulty, the EU and the way state aid rules are formulated today say that under EU law the Danish State must push the company beyond the edge of the abyss and cause bankruptcy that might have been avoided. I think that is very, very inappropriate, unreasonable, and I do not understand that the rules are such. I have worked to change them, but that is not possible at this stage, and that is why we are forced, of course, to comply with the EU rules that apply. That's the way it is. In those words, I would like to thank you for receiving the bill. Then I would like to say to the Enhedslisten rapporteur that I had some doubts as to whether Enhedslisten supports the bill. I would say that if you don't think the settlement you're part of is a good one, then you shouldn't be in it. I have the starting point as a parliamentarian and as a minister that I play out with something the government plays out with, and then we negotiate. Then there will be a majority, and then you will own it all, everything that has been agreed. Then you may think that something is better than anything else, but the fact that there is something that you say you are very, very opposed to, which you think is quite stupid, that you do not want to do that at all, I think a little is a bad thing, because then you should not have gone along with the compromise. If you are in a settlement, it is because, overall, you think it is a good settlement. So it is fair to say that there is something you do not like and that you would have liked to do so in addition to what the SF rapporteur said, but I think that Enhedslisten's rhetoric about part of the energy agreement is very much such that puha, that one does not think that is a good idea at all. If that is the position of the Enhedslisten, then you have to withdraw from the conciliation. Otherwise, you have to choose to join. I defend everything in the settlement that lies, even though it was not all the government's idea, because that is what we have agreed. But that was such a small political comment at the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221180429	Thank you. There are brief comments. First question, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221180434	My critical sense and freedom of speech are not limited by the fact that Enhedslisten is part of an energy reconciliation. We reserve the absolute right to say what we like best, and we like the fact that three large offshore wind farms will grow after this settlement has been made and after something that was significantly better than the government's proposal. The fact that there are then some thistles on the coast that the government like to have ordered, then we must live with. What, then, are the consequences of reducing these taxes? Well, that's 450 million. kr. Now we have just had some discussions with the Minister today, when the Minister wanted to see if we could just figure out how we would spend 50 million. kr. extra. Yes, we can discuss that even if there is a conciliation text. So I think it is far-fetched that we should not have a debate where we are critical of the conciliation we are involved in, because we can, of course, adjust a conciliation. The conciliation text also says that you can build on it. In other words, if there is something you want to do better in a future budget debate, there is an opportunity to do so. That is why it is reasonable to have a debate on what is good and bad in that conciliation. It's basically legal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221180547	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221180548	Well, it's not that there's something illegal or anything else. I'm just saying, when you go into a settlement, you make a deal and you give and you take something. Politics is about making compromises, and my approach to politics is that when I have reached a compromise, I have got something, and then I have given something, and then I also defend what has been decided, of course, with some nuances. I just think Enhedslisten is using a very, very hard rhetoric. And I'm just saying in all silence that you're very welcome to do so, but it doesn't sharpen your appetite to take Enhedslisten with another time if, once you've made an agreement, you have to hear how bad it is and how unthought out it is, and how you'd rather have spent the money on something else. Well, you're just not interesting as a conciliation partner, just like you, if you're a party all the time, and I'm not accusing the Enhedslisten of sitting and problematizing the small things that are when you have to settle, so we can never agree, nor are we attractive as a conciliation partner. So that is what I am trying to say in all silence that freedom of expression is certain, but there is also freedom of agreement on who you make agreements with and with whom you enter into a settlement. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221180650	If the author wishes to speak, we need to press the floor so that we can have the technique. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221180653	The system's on strike! Okay, now it's zero. I mean, little things, the minister thinks that such a bill at 450 million. kr. Are little things? Frankly, I don't think so. When you are reading the proposal, you might ask: is this a law that has a significant impact on law firms and architects when they have reduced their electricity bill? Honestly, what kind of electricity you have in a law firm for lighting and some computers that are buzzing? If you look at the bills written out, how much is the electricity cost of the fees charged to lawyers and accountants and architects? How much is the electricity bill in that? I could understand if it was some of the energy-intensive companies that you were critical of an increase in electricity consumption, but these are some liberal professions that can save some micro ears on their overall budget • I think it is far-fetched.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221180759	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221180800	We probably just have different views about how to make policy. If you go into a debate where the Enhedslisten gets concessions and the government gets concessions, then I am not standing as a minister and saying that the things that Enhedslisten has got from concessions, I think are hollow in my head and stupid and no sense makes, but that I am voting in favour. Well, I don't, and I think that's a boring way to negotiate. I would urge the Enhedslisten either not to participate in a conciliation that one does not like, or to stand by that conciliation and then defend those parts, but does not seem to be very interesting. And if you want to have your full freedom of expression, you are welcome to do so, but then you just run the risk that it will be difficult to get anything done.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221180838	The next question is Mr. Jens Joel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221180842	Thank you. In fact, this is not so much a matter for the substance of the bill, because it is, of course, as it is, but I stumbled over something the tax minister said about this: the EU will insist that when a company is under pressure, you have to raise the tax and push the company the last piece into the abyss, I think the minister said. So, bearing in mind that we are talking about the context of this, I would like to know whether the Minister really thinks that the European Union is forcing us to raise taxes for companies in difficulty. I think, of course, that the difference is that here we have some companies and the minister himself said that it is random and historically conditional that has paid one tax and some have paid another. So the European Union has not forced us to raise taxes for companies in difficulty, has it? The European Union has just said that it must be the same tax and that it must not give a lower tax to some companies in crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221180937	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221180938	It's basically about assuming that 90%. of Danish companies paying the low tax, is that normal? And that's what I think is normal. Then there are some companies that we have said have to pay some more tax because they are not manufacturing companies or anything else. It says the EU: 90%. State aid will be granted. That is a legal way of arguing. I just don't think it makes much sense, and basically I don't understand why EU rules are such that if a company is in difficulty and there are some definitions of it, you don't have the opportunity to get this support anymore. Then you have to get the last push. That's the consequence of it. I don't see the common sense in it • to be completely honest.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221181033	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221181035	In this particular case, we do not support the fact that this is the way the logic is. You can discuss what is normal if it is 90% that pays the low tax. What is really my petition is to say: does the Minister of Taxation really believe in principle that lower taxes should be granted to firms in difficulty, or does the Minister of Tax support the principle that France cannot support Renault factories with tax rebates if they are in trouble or something? I thought that it was an integral part of the Left's view of the internal market that it is very reasonable that such discounts cannot be given and there I am a little confused about the tax minister's announcement, regardless of the fact that in the real world and in relation to the concrete here we agree that it is crazy when the normal state has been something else in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221181125	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221181127	Well, we are certainly opposed to going in and making selective support for selected companies, but instead we have some general rules that apply to all companies and all types of companies. If such a company producing furniture suddenly gets into trouble, because a financial crisis hits • and where competitors are hit less hard, so that they are not in trouble • then this company must suddenly no longer have the low electricity price. Up to 2023, we are then in a situation where we have to pull the plug, because then the company will have to pay a much, much higher tax, and that is the tax that makes the company go bankrupt. I simply do not see the common sense in that, nor do I see how it promotes a non-State aid agenda in the European Union. But these are the rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221181212	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221181228	The debate is open. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). Jens Joel as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221181245	Thank you. Here we are dealing with a legislative proposal which may be less in scope, but which nevertheless affects a very, very important area, namely how to recover the debt that is, how to get that money in. And bearing in mind what both the daily press and various citizens have said in the last few months and told about the problems both of recovering and sometimes also of the lack of logic. Speaking of our previous debate on what is being recovered and what is not being recovered, it is in every way positive that we try to address how we can ensure better recovery. This is about ensuring that we get the system recovery supported, if you like, a little better, so that we make it possible for companies' tax debts to be properly managed in a recovery system. There are three changes to this: the tax minister is empowered to lay down rules in order to pass claims on to the order of cover, i.e. to push claims with, for example, data errors aside in order to move on with the recoveries; that priority can be given to the challenges to be validated, i.e. checked with regard to data errors first; and then it is about legalising the practice of postponing the payment deadline if the last timely payment day falls on a bank closing day. All in all, it sounds like this is a pragmatic and good way to ensure that fewer things become obsolete, that you move on, that you can organise your recovery work better. We must support this in every way because, to put it mildly, it does not go beyond all expectations and too well with recovery. However, I would also like to ask the tax minister, when the tax minister comes up here, to comment on what the National Association of Municipalities has said, in view of the fact that the tax minister is given greater opportunity to prioritise which debts are recovered first, namely how one can then be sure that the tax minister does not distinguish between what income lands with the tax minister and overlooks those which the municipalities have for their benefit. So, of course, we would like to hear the comments of the Minister of Taxation on that either here or during the committee procedure. But the Social Democratic Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221181519	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next speaker in line is Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221181526	As already mentioned by the previous rapporteur, we are discussing another draft law on recovery, which has been completely at its knees, but which I believe is on the right track, among other things. by means of the fact that we are now in the process of the fourth legislative proposal, which is intended to simplify the rules. The previous rapporteur has already mentioned what the content is, so I do not want to bore the House with that, but I think it is very positive that we are united in making some simplifications so that it will be easier to create an IT support so that there will also be a much better chance of getting effective recovery in the future. As I have been informed and as we have also talked about in the circle behind, there will be a fifth legislative proposal which is somewhat more extensive, but which is also a quite sensible simplification of the legislation, which will enable this to work forward. But since this is what I would consider to be relatively small adjustments, the Danish People's Party naturally supports this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221181619	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then we have come to Mrs Louise Schack Elholm as rapporteur for the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221181630	Thank you for the floor. In the Left we have been very concerned to restore confidence in the tax administration, as I have also mentioned in the past, and therefore we have also invested massively in making the tax administration work better. Over the last two years, we have dealt with a great deal of legislative proposals to simplify the recovery of debts, and this is in the light of the very sad history which has also been mentioned, namely the collapse of the EFI. One of the problems with the EFI was that there were too many types of claims, there were too many rules on the different types of claims and a whole lot more. What we are doing here is a slight simplification of the recovery legislation, in which we are specifically proposing the introduction of clear rules by offsetting debts under collection by creditors and helping to link the tax account which collects corporate tax requirements to the new IT system. It's just that you're about to have the new temporary IT system up and running, and now we're gonna have to bring this too. In addition, it must be possible to offset and, when offset, debts must be passed over with data errors so that they do not completely stall because of the data errors in some of the claims. We must also be able to skip debts where we are not sure whether they are legally binding, i.e. whether they are still valid. And then the tax administration's practice of postponing the payment deadline, if the last timely payment day falls on a day when the banks have closed, must be legalized, because then it is good legislation. In this way, we think it is a very good legislative proposal. As the Conservatives and the Radicals do not have the opportunity to be present, I have to say that both the Left, the Conservatives and the Radicals support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221181809	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then I give the floor to Mr. Rune Lund as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221181815	Thank you. This bill contains a number of good and sensible changes to the legislation so that the system support for the recovery of public debt can be improved and so that we can ensure more effective and also legal recovery. I note that there are not very many comments on the draft law in the hearings either, but there are, among other things, some of them. the remark made by the National Association of Municipalities, by Mr. Jens Joel also mentioned and who could be kind enough to get the Minister's comments on. But otherwise it is a good bill, as we read it, and Enhedslisten can support the content of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221181852	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Well, that's the ride to sir. Joachim B. Olsen as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221181858	One of the problems that has been around debt recovery has been that we have had an extremely complicated tax law which has made it difficult to digitise recovery. This is then a legislative proposal which simplifies the legislation in the field of recovery, and it is absolutely necessary if recovery is to be digitalised, and of course we support that. There is a long way to go to restore citizens' confidence in our tax administration, but hopefully this is a step far from the last - in the right direction. We support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221181942	Thank you to LA's rapporteur. Well, that's the ride to sir. Julius Graakjær Grantzau as rapporteur for the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221181956	Thank you. I, like the other rapporteurs, am very much in favour of this proposal. It's amazing to see politicians and the office actually working with these system developers who are doing this system. I think that it can give a very good quality of work that we are not only coming from in here with a proposal that over time puts a system completely out of place, but that we also have a cooperation and dialogue while developing these IT systems, where we are actually talking to those who develop the systems about what is sensible to do. For it is also a great advantage for those people who are subsequently affected and will work with the tax administration around their tax cases that it actually slips. So much praise for including in the system work here and taking it into account in the legislation and cleaning up. And we support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221182056	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. Then the trip has come to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen as rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221182109	I've said it before, but you can't praise it too often. I think that the tax minister has largely handled the reconstruction of the tax administration very well. This is another proposal that is necessary in order to ensure both the correct but also the swiftest possible recovery of public debt, while at the same time ensuring that things are in order. It is often technically difficult to explain to the people, who rightly do not have much confidence in us on this point or in the tax administration in general, why we decide as we do, and when there is one article after another about those who probably earn quite a lot of money and have a good income, who have written off debts, people who speak out in the press and say that they would like to pay some clatter debt, etc. etc. It's hard to explain why we have to make these choices. I would urge that that part of the communication should also be given more thought every time these things happen, both on the part of the Treasury, but also on the part of us who have to stand a little shoulder to shoulder to explain that there is a reason why there are claims that are being cancelled, that there is a reason why there are debts that are not being recovered, that there is a reason why people who may have a rather high income are also getting cut off some debt, because the cost would simply be too high by recovering some of the debt, and much of the debt is not certain either that it is indeed we cannot know it at all is legal to recover. I just do not think we can say that often enough, because the loss of confidence that has been is only getting worse if people do not understand why we make the choices we make, but there is, of course, complete agreement among all the parties in the Folketing that the choices we make are necessary to restore the tax administration. That was not so much in relation to the specific proposal. I just think it is necessary to say this, because it is easy to make press stories that some people have once again got off some debt that they might even want to pay, and then we often just do not get enough speaking time to explain that there is actually a logical reason to make the choices we have made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221182405	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221182412	Thank you very much, and thank you for the unequivocal welcome of the draft law. I am glad that all parties support the bill. It is, in fact, another important factor in creating a well-functioning and, above all, effective debt recovery, where recovery is carried out on a legal basis and in a legally sound manner. There has also been a great deal of support for the other legislative proposals that we have adopted over the last two years to simplify recovery legislation, and I would like, in general, to acknowledge the way in which all parties have taken responsibility, even if we, what can be said, are in a very, very difficult situation, and that might be easy to say: we will not take responsibility for that. But there are all the parties involved, and thank you for that. A key condition for the establishment of a secure and effective forward-looking recovery of public debt is that further simplifications and changes in the legislation in this area are made so that the unsustainable level of public debt can be reduced. This is important as part of the desire to restore citizens' confidence in the tax administration. It is not reasonable for other citizens to have to pay for those who do not pay their debts to the public. We are now in the process of recovering in the new IT system, and we are in the process of connecting those who have debts. It could be the country's municipalities, utilities, police circles, the tax administration's own systems to the newly built IT system. Today's first-reading legislative proposal helps to secure a legal basis by offsetting debts incurred by creditors and contributes to linking the tax account, which collects corporate tax requirements, to the new IT system. In relation to set-off, it is proposed that it should be possible to skip debt items with data errors or doubts about legal force. This will enable automatic set-off to continue to be effective. In addition, it is proposed that the Danish Tax Office's current practice to postpone the payment deadline should the final payment day fall on a bank closing day. It makes sense. This is to ensure that the limitation period, calculated on the basis of the last day of payment in due time, does not become too long in relation to the applicable rules. As you know, a draft law on further simplification in the field of recovery will be presented in the spring. The legislative proposal we are debating today has had to be tabled earlier, because the large annual set-off of excess taxes is already taking place from the beginning of April, when we will have to have the legislative proposal adopted. So thank you for a good reception and thank you for a constructive process, and hopefully we can also see that we are getting a debt recovery that is getting on its feet. If I have to address the question of KL, I can say that we are very happy to reply to that in writing, i.e. the concern expressed by KL in relation to the claims of the state against the claims of the municipalities. I would like to sign for the nice words of the SF rapporteur, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, and I fully agree with this communication. Last week, when it was winter holiday, Berlingske had a longer series of articles on recovery. We who know the area will know that there is nothing new, but it was turned up as a great sensation. One might almost think that Berlingske had been inspired by B.T.'s editorial line. It is, of course, the same group, but I now think that the seriousness has fallen somewhat in Berlingske's coverage of this area. All of this is based on access to a draft report between an office of the National Audit Office of a Technical Office of the Ministry of Taxation. And that's what you get. It is perfectly normal practice, it happens in all areas of ministers, and sometimes there are misunderstandings, and there are things that are wrong, factual errors. This will be clarified in this exchange process of drafts. When something is finished, it will be submitted to the Treasury and me as minister for comment: this is the situation, it says the review, what are you going to do about it? Then the State auditors will all be in touch with it. Berlingske has had an insight into, indeed, they did not call it a draft, they called it a sub-report. Why would they do that? It weakened the story a little if it was a draft and not a sub-report and that was not quite right. I think it is a pity that we are having a debate on an uninformed basis, and one gets such an impression in the public that all the things that are decided do not work when the truth is that they actually do. So the newspapers should be welcome to criticize this also in the case of Berlingske, but I think that, in the area of recovery, a little more should be done before you draw your conclusions. Because you run the risk of jumping to conclusions. The conclusion I would draw is that we are getting good legal treatment and we are also getting a recovery system that is going to work quietly, and that is all that was missing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221182911	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221182925	The debate is open and I shall begin by giving the floor to Mrs Astrid Krag as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221182947	Thank you for the floor, President. After all, we are dealing here with a legislative proposal which will target preventive home visits further than is already the case today. There is a very wise saying that if you want to treat all people equally, you should not treat them equally. Because we are all different, and also in the older years we have different starting points when it comes to dealing with the problems that can come in everyday life when age pushes on. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party have in the past strongly advocated stronger action against the elderly, who are at the greatest risk of mistrust and, for example, the elderly. end involuntarily alone and in solitude. The draft law here provides for a further step in this direction. The draft law will focus efforts on preventive home visits so that the elderly, who live alone in their 70th year, will be offered a visit. The Danish Health Authority's mapping of the older profile for 2019 shows that the proportion of elderly people who are unwanted alone increases with age. Loneliness can have major consequences. We know this in relation to physical illness, depression and suicide attempts, and therefore targeted action is an important part of prevention work. By blaspheming the lonely elderly and the elderly in the past, we can ensure that they can get the right help and prevent them from ending up in social isolation and all that follows from it. I really don't think you can disagree with that is a good idea. However, it is clear that there is a warning bell ringing from us to make the previous effort possible at the expense of the 81-year-olds who will not be offered a preventive home visit in future. In 2015, the offer of preventive home visits was changed, so that, as a starting point, you are no longer entitled to an annual preventive home visit, from 75 years of age, but only from 80 years of age. Now the government is setting up for fewer visits. As I have said, we support targeting the elderly with the least resources that are at the greatest risk of distrust, but we must also be careful that we do not undermine general, broad preventive action so much that it falls through and does not make a difference. We in the Social Democratic Party will attach great importance to clarifying the experience of the recent change in the preventive home visits from 2015. How many more of the people we wanted to ensure better help? Are there any municipalities that do better than others? Are the resources actually being used, as we assumed, when we made the change? We need to know more about all this now that we are going to go down that road so that the Minister can expect a number of questions about it in committee. We also need to know more about whether the elderly actually benefit from preventive measures. Is there a social bias in who says no? Do the collective arrangements, which in some cases replace individual preventive visits, live up to what we expect to achieve through preventive home visits? That too must be pursued in committee. In the consultations we also see a number of other concerns. Is living alone, for example? Already a criterion used by the municipalities in their assessment of who is in the risk group and should have an earlier visit? And following that, how do we ensure that the definition of who is at risk does not become a huge administrative burden, which is too heavy for the municipalities to lift? We should not end up with more employees behind a desk and fewer out in the elderly. So there is therefore support for the proposal, which can ensure greater equality in the fight against distrust among our elderly, but we also have a number of questions that we will pursue in committee. I should like to welcome the Radical Left and say that there is support from them too, but with the same attention points that I have just outlined in my speech. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221183324	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. Jeppe Jakobsen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221183332	Thank you very much. Loneliness is as dangerous as smoking. It is a view that the Danish People's Party has been touring around for a long time and that we have had to get on the hump for for a long time because it was thought that there was no evidence to say so. Recently a report was published confirming what we have said, namely that loneliness is as dangerous as smoking especially for older people. Men are particularly at risk in this situation; men tackle it in some way worse when they get lonely late in life, while older women are better at nurturing networks and keeping moving. We are therefore very pleased with this bill, which now targets the preventive home visits to those who must be in the risk group to be lonely and those who are alone. It comes on top of a large number of proposals that we have made on the Finance Act together with the government, and which have been made widely in the Danish Parliament in the gamble pool. It's not very nice to stay alone when you're old, and I think there's an important task in that we get the focus on this, i.e. it's not something you should expect when you get old. For even if the likelihood of losing your partner increases when you get older, it is not for that reason less painful, rather quite the contrary. For the longer you have been with your partner, the more you have grown into each other, and the more painful it is to lose the other. That is why there is a need for us, as a society, to engage in those people who are exposed to the loss of their partner. So the Danish People's Party warmly and warmly supports this proposal, which now makes us, as a society, better at engaging with those people who need society to see them because they do not immediately have anyone who sees them. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221183556	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. It is almost in line with Mrs Jane Heitmann as rapporteur for the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221183605	Thank you, President. A doctor once told me that one of the most common causes of death in the elderly is loneliness, but that diagnosis does not exist. Whether that is true, I do not know, but it is at least thought-provoking that according to the Centre for Public Health and Quality Development there are 33,000 elderly people who feel lonely in today's Denmark. With loneliness, the risk of diseases such as AIDS increases. stress, cardiovascular disease and depression, and not least the risk of suicide due to loneliness, is high. Statistics show that the proportion of suicide in the elderly is almost twice as high as in the rest of the population, and when an elderly person decides to kill himself, it is often desperately successful. In 2016, as much as 23 per cent was spent. of all suicides related to the elderly over 70 years of age. The men in particular are at risk. In 2016, men's share was 71.5%. of all suicides among the elderly, and these are sad figures that we must not ignore. We have already taken a number of initiatives through the rate pool. Among other things: We are well on the way to strengthening our efforts to combat the loss of life and the loss of life, and to prevent elderly people from being lonely at home. But more is needed and the effort is on two legs. We already have preventive home visits today, and the municipalities are doing a great job. However, as we experience later transitions from an active working life to a new senior life where you have to find a new place in life, it makes sense to offer a preventive home visit for all 70-year-olds already now. The amendment of the law is therefore an addition to what we are already doing today. The goal of an earlier preventative home visit is to prevent loneliness from propagating. Visits at the age of 75, at the age of 80, and every year, from the age of 82, there is no change in the proposal here, just as the content of the visit, how to do it, and that it is the municipalities themselves who decide what is the best way to do it locally, because the municipalities know the best way to do it themselves. A citizen who does not want a visit can also still say no. If we are to overcome loneliness and distrust among the elderly, there are no easy wand solutions. But we can be better at preventing, and that is the direction in which we are now moving. The Left can support the proposal as it has been put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221183854	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Next in line, sir. Peder Hvelplund as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221183902	Thank you for that, President. L 148, which we are discussing here today, is a change in the objective of preventive home visits. This means that the scheme is changing, so that the 70-year-olds are now offered a preventive home visit, while the offer is no longer given to 81-year-olds. This will, in fact, cover the whole issue of legislation from the Enhedslisten side ■ the lack of funding. Because we actually share the view that the offer of a preventive home visit may be that the best thing would be for the elderly to know that the necessary help was available when they needed it. But it is the case that the transition from having a partner to losing it and becoming single can be difficult and can create a life crisis in the individual. Therefore, it is also surprising that the government is suggesting that it is precisely the single 70-year-olds who have to have the offer, because it may as well be 72-year-olds or 77-year-olds that you lose your partner and become single. That is why the distinction between 70-year-olds and 70-year-olds also seems strangely unfounded. The need will be the same no matter when it happens. However, as I said, Enhedslisten supports the idea of extending the scheme. We just wanted a thorough evaluation to be carried out and then the scheme to be extended on a professionally qualified basis. When we cannot support the bill, it is because of the lack of funding. We simply find it unacceptable that the scheme should be financed by removing the offer of visits to the 81-year-olds. The system of annual home visits is an effort which, unfortunately, has been gradually spared. The age limit for annual visits has previously been moved from 75 years to 80 years, and now you move it again by abolishing visits to the 81-year-olds. It lacks complete professional support and acts alone as an opportunity to find funding. That is simply not fair. If the government believes that the scheme should be extended, there must of course be funding for it. You could, for example. do not grant tax relief on private aircraft and light typhoid. It is possible that it would cause dissatisfaction in the segment of yacht owners, but that would be more reasonable than leaving the 81-year-olds without their annual preventive home visits. I am aware that it may be a little polemical, but I simply think that this is the top point of absurdity when one recognises that there is a need to extend a system of preventive home visits to single people, that the only place, but then one seems to be able to find funding, is by removing the visits of the 81-year-olds. However, if the Minister is willing to find funding elsewhere, we will be completely open to extending the system of preventive home visits to the elderly, which will become single if it is combined with a thorough evaluation and a mapping of municipal offers, so that we are sure that the scheme will be extended on a professionally qualified basis. With the current funding or lack of it, the Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221184217	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then the trip has come to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221184227	Thank you. We live longer and longer, and we manage ourselves further up in age than before. Therefore, it makes good sense to target preventive home visits to the elderly who need it, rather than just making automatic visits to all those people who do not need the help. On the other hand, we must focus our efforts on those who need it and, above all, on the lonely elderly. We must ensure that the elderly, who are at risk of being lonely and who need more help, also receive dignified help. That's the purpose of this bill, and that's why the Liberal Alliance supports the proposal. And I should like to welcome Conservatives and say that they also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221184316	Thank you to the rapporteur. Now it's sir. Rasmus Nordqvist as rapporteur for the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221184326	Well, sometimes the lucky thing happens that you get to be a substitute in an area you don't sit with normally and then you get smarter. It has to be said that I also stayed when I was reading through this proposal, and not least the consultation answers. We are very concerned that we must prevent the large over-medication that is taking place among older people, which leads to dissatisfaction and unnecessary admissions, and that is why we are in favour of this bill. More and more elderly people feel lonely. Too many people are on lucky pills. Older people over 85 years of age are prescribed three times as many prescriptions as the rest of the population. It is therefore positive that this proposal places an extra emphasis on preventive action for the older population and on preventing loneliness and mental dissatisfaction. As the government points out, 23%. of all suicides related to the elderly over 70 years of age. We have to do something about that. However, there are some concerns in the consultation answers which we have noted and which we will just mention, because that is one of the things we need to clarify in the work of the committee. This is among other things. KL's concern that part of municipal self-determination is being deprived. And then we want the Minister to clarify why the criteria for home visits are narrowed to 70-year-olds. In this context, the Danish Elders' Council wants evidence that the sole residents of this particular age group constitute a particular risk group. Is there any particular reason why, in addition to the retirement age and its development, home visits are located here, and is there a risk that the professional judgement in the municipalities is replaced by this very age-based rule? In general, we think it is important that a great deal is done about the involvement and information of the elderly citizen on the offers. As far as funding is concerned, we find it problematic, like the Elder case, that preventive home visits for single 70-year-olds should be offered at the expense of preventive home visits for all 81-year-olds. However, one will still focus on the 81-year-olds who show signs of loneliness there just won't be these automatic visits. So, although we have these reservations and concerns and some questions, we are largely in favour of the legislative proposal, because it is precisely intended to prevent mental maltreatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221184548	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. Then it is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen as rapporteur for the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221184554	Thank you very much. The worst thing about getting older is that friends and family fall away, and this can result in grueling loneliness. And I wonder if most people agree that loneliness is unhealthy. It is therefore also true that the Minister for the Elderly focuses on loneliness. At least the diagnosis is right. On the other hand, I'm not quite sure that the cure is the right one. I can see that I share that view with a number of others. For example, the National Association of Municipalities claims that it may be difficult in practice to track down the elderly in particular at the risk of reduced social and physical functionality, as it is difficult in practice to find useful data. KL therefore also requests that the Ministry of the Elderly prepare clear legal guidelines for the use of personal data for the detection of elderly people at particular risk. This is, as I see it, a rather relevant barrier to the proposal, which, on the other hand, is also extremely difficult to overcome. Because it must still be up to the individual citizen what data the municipality should have on the civilian situation of the citizen, from boyfriends to divorce and death. We're as different when we get old as we used to be. It is different how we are affected by defects, and it is different how we keep going. Some will need help early, some later, while others will never need help. The age criterion may therefore lack both objectivity and professionalism, both in relation to the current preventive home visits as well as to the new ones. Is a single person of 70 years of age always at risk, for example, or is it, as is also highlighted in the consultation responses, really stigmatizing to establish a criterion where the single 70-year-old is considered to be at risk for lonely health risks? That's a good point, I think. We know it from ourselves, too. Most of us don't think it would be great if the municipality just came by for coffee unless we actually needed help. However, preventive home visits do not necessarily fall just when we happen to need help. Many elderly people will therefore experience the municipality's visits as superfluous and perhaps even cross-border. A preventive home visit is just a visit, it is not a series of visits. It is therefore not the preventive home call that makes up for loneliness. If we are to solve the problem of loneliness, we must have continuous and visible offers for the elderly, just when the elderly need it: to be able to get to someone when you need it; that the help that you may need becomes a little more spacious; time to hear how things are going for the person receiving home care. After all, the weakened elderly are also at the greatest risk of loneliness. That is why it is also deeply regrettable to hear about weakened elderly people, such as the elderly. It is therefore rare to meet someone who may have time to hear how things are going. Perhaps Call was also an opportunity that could be taken advantage of, but we know that it is difficult to get searched for, and we know that there are older people who want a nursing home that cannot get it, even though they themselves think they are so weakened that they have been cut off from the outside world. The economy, as Enhedslisten has also mentioned in the proposal, seems to me to be a barrier, and then I think that there is a lack of concrete solutions which should apply when we really have to solve the problem of loneliness afterwards, because it is not enough to track it down that it is also necessary for us to actually solve it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221184952	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. And then I give the floor to the Minister for the Elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221185005	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for the debate in the Chamber today and for the comments on the legislative proposal on targeting preventive home visits. Fighting loneliness is a matter of my heart. That is why I am very pleased with the support that this draft law supports efforts to combat loneliness among the elderly. The aim of the proposal is to strengthen the preventive action of the municipalities in relation to the elderly, who may be particularly vulnerable in terms of loneliness, for example in the transition from working life to retirement. It is especially older people who live alone who may be at risk of isolation and loneliness. And since loneliness can have major consequences both human and social, it is crucial that we focus on combating it. With the bill, the municipal council must offer a preventive home visit to all citizens of the municipality who live alone during their 70th birthday. It provides better opportunities to detect loneliness and also to deal with other problems in the bud • problems that are not, for example, a spouse or collector to be aware of. The proposal must therefore be seen both in the context of efforts towards loneliness, which we have prioritised both in the rate pool and in the Finance Act, but also as part of the development of preventive action among the elderly. As a result of the agreement on the rate pool, the Danish Health Authority will now have to provide a new guide on the preventive home visits. It is a very good tool that we must make the most of. Once again, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for receiving the draft law and for today's debate. I look forward to the further examination of the draft law and, of course, I am responding to any questions the committee may put to the draft law along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221185209	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221185213	Thank you. I tried to say this in my own rapporteur's speech, and then I think I might be able to ask the question now. For one thing, identifying this loneliness problem. If we actually manage to track down the elderly lonely citizen, what are some offers we can make to this citizen afterwards? Is it possible to imagine, for example, that in the future we can search for some home care or some visits from home care continuously alone because of loneliness, although one may not necessarily be physically weakened? What does the Minister for the Elderly think we can actually do when we have identified the problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221185259	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221185300	I could imagine. There can be many different things that can be done. I think that must be up to the individual municipality, in relation to what they already have of offers, and from that they can judge what is needed. Because it is very individual what is needed in the individual.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221185319	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221185321	But that's exactly my point. For offers there are enough for seniors, you can say "or there is of course a difference between municipality and municipality." However, the problem arises precisely when you are not the social type who would like to go to banko games or gymnastics on Thursdays. So if you are actually an isolated, single elderly person, does the Minister think there are some offers where the municipality can actually be outseeing continuously compared to lonely elderly people in their own home?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221185354	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221185356	Well, I think so, and I certainly hope so. So when you see a person sitting and being lonely, you in the municipality will also be ready for some things that can make this one older one feel better.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221185413	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221185429	As you know, there is no minister on this proposal. It is Parliament's own responsibility. I will listen carefully to the debate on the proposal, which is of course to be discussed in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. The debate is open. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). Jens Joel as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221185514	Thank you to the President-in-Office for that. After all, it is neither surprise nor news that the climate is serious. Report after report shows that we need to do more. We need to do something in every part of our society and we need to do it faster than we have thought so far. Fortunately, in here we discuss a great many things on a daily basis, in relation to what we can do in Danish society, what we can do internationally, what we can do to ensure a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions and what we can do to transform our society into more sustainable. I think that is absolutely crucial, and indeed the task we spend the most time on. The task we are discussing today is, in fact, to look inwards: how can we help to take part in the medicine that we also expect the rest of society to take? How can the Danish Parliament, as an institution, and as a collective, become more green? How can we ensure that we save on our energy and heat consumption and recycle more? How can we look at our diet? How can we look at the transport? It is clear that, in addition to the fact that a great deal can be done, and we hope that the Bureau will look at how our operations can be optimised and our moves on Earth's resources and our pressures on the climate will certainly also be things that we cannot avoid, such as our flights, which will, of course, sometimes be necessary. Here you have to look at how it can be compensated for. We do not want to be the first parliament to do so. The European Parliament, for example, has been CO2 We hope that we in the Folketing will be able to come along and show that from next year we will be in favour of CO2 and, moreover, we will be putting forward, at least on the part of the Social Democrats, a discussion with the other parties and with the Bureau, on how best to ensure that we achieve our ambitions. I have promised to welcome from the SF, which is not present, and to say that they are, of course, behind the motion for a resolution, for which they are also co-sponsors.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221185740	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Jeppe Jakobsen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221185748	Thank you. As the previous rapporteur rightly explained, the motion for a resolution is about the Folketing being CO2 It is a fine ambition to have. When I got the motion for a resolution, I sat down and thought: what can you do to get rid of this CO2 at our group meeting earlier today, when we discussed this and I mentioned that this was the ambition, then my party chairman got up and turned out the lights in the group room to do something about it? There was a little light outside the window, but it was hard to work under those conditions. So I guess it wasn't a way forward. So we're probably gonna consume some CO2 somehow it's gonna have to be CO2 you can build a windmill out here at the Palace Square. I guess that wouldn't be so pretty. Despite the fact that the City of Copenhagen is largely left-wing, I do not believe that the City of Copenhagen would allow wind turbines to be built in the City of Copenhagen. Funny, but that's the way it's often with the green energy. You want it somewhere else. We could travel a forest somewhere, the Parliament's forest, but in order for it to work, it would have to grow continuously with the CO2 you have to stay standing, and it is only a matter of time before you run out of space, at least if you want to continue consuming CO2 So the option I can get is that you pay off of it. Then you have to buy indulgence in the best Catholic spirit. Then the rich can sin with good calm in their stomachs, and the rest must then try to stay on the narrow path of virtue. We would like to look at what can be done because we can see that there is a problem with CO2 The extent of plastic water being drunk in this house annoyed me personally as former waterworks chairman from the day I came in here. It is quite incomprehensible when we have such a wonderful clean drinking water in Denmark. It was a place to start. There is certainly some CO2 in that there is at least an environmental saving. Therefore, the Danish People's Party would like to contribute to the work on how we can convert the Danish Parliament so that it becomes more green. So far as the contents are concerned. So there is something about the form here: Parliament instructs the Bureau to take these actions. After all, the members of the Bureau are members of parliament and are therefore solely bound by their consciences, and therefore the Folketing cannot instruct the Bureau to do anything. I find it strange that some of the authors of this proposal, who have seats in the Bureau, did not start by raising this matter in the Bureau, where the proper one belongs. That is why I think that what has happened here is upside down, and that is why I call on the proposers, at least those who have members of the Bureau, to start where this matter should have started, namely in the Bureau. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221190127	Thank you. And then we move on to Mr. Thomas Danielsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221190137	Thank you for that, President. I must begin by saying that I am also speaking on behalf of both the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives. The proposal here to make the Folketing CO2 It is highly appealing to the Left that you clean up after yourself, that you take responsibility for yourself. We are good at this in Denmark. There are also many examples in relation to our companies, of which we are very proud. Færsk, who has an ambition to become climate neutral by 2050, pollutes just as much as the Danish population, roughly, together, but has this very, very high ambition to be climate neutral by 2050. Therefore, it is also very natural that we in the Folketing take responsibility for ourselves and clean up after ourselves. What is traditionally the position and ambition of the Left in addition is that we must have as much green change as possible for the money. And that is the good question, since we are going to make climate investments on behalf of the Folketing. It is not certain that it is the most effective way if we grant an additional grant to the Danish Parliament, because we now need to be climate-neutral, then we raise the amount over in the Ministry of Finance, and then we can walk around with a good conscience, despite the fact that we could actually have had even better consciences by perhaps having made green investments that made Denmark even greener. It is easy to allow citizens to pay for Parliament's decisions, and therefore it must be a precondition that we in the Folketing pay from our own framework, so that we do not just go over and raise the amount to the Folketing so that we can manage our own CO2 I hope that the minority will agree to a form of joint report where we can call on the Bureau, where we can become a little more specific, in relation to what we want the Bureau to work on, rather than this very short and comprehensive text. After all, it is no secret that the minority has not tried to obtain a majority in favour of the proposal by seeking agreement on the other side of the middle. And that can either be interpreted as being a little populist, or as trying to score some cheap points, I hope not, of course, and I also believe that it is an oversight. So I hope that after today we will get together so that all the parties of the Folketing can make a joint call to the Bureau in the form of a report to examine this proposal a little more specifically.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221190457	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221190500	First of all, I would like to point out that it is quite normal that we should also seek a majority in this Chamber, because it is, of course, negotiations that we have here, and if we go around and have to make all the agreements outside the door, then what is going on in the Chamber is hardly needed, so it is quite natural that this is where we, as parties, have the discussion. But I would really like to hear about something that was not quite clear in the speech. Does the rapporteur agree that we should have concrete targets, that is to say, dates, or is it just something that needs to be a little fluent? I could not quite hear that in the rapporteur's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221190535	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221190538	Then I'm very sorry if I wasn't ready. In relation to specific dates, you might ask yourself why it should be 2020 rather than 2019. If it turns out that it is something that can be searched quickly and that you can get started quickly, we can see no reason to wait until 2020. Conversely, due to certain assumptions, this cannot be done in 2019. We do not have much to do with this year, because we think it is a good idea and that it is a good ambition to make the Folketing CO2 provided that we do not just raise the necessary funds over in the Ministry of Finance and allow the citizens to pay for our green conscience, because we believe that we in the Folketing should stand together across all parties and say that we must find it within the Danish Parliament's own framework.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221190622	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221190625	Then I can reassure the rapporteur that the resolution says that it will be by 2020 at the latest, and then it will be possible to do so in 2019, it is quite within the framework. I don't think I have any more.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221190636	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221190639	I didn't hear any question from Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist. Now it is a very short motion for a resolution in very few lines, so I hope that the minority, together with the majority, will create a complete proposal with all the parties in the form of a report which may be a little more specific and where we can discuss what is possible. May I just conclude by saying that normally the possibility of a majority is actually being sought before any proposals are made in the Parliamentary Assembly.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221190715	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221190723	We can, of course, check whether there is a majority in favour of the motion for a resolution. I do not think it is very often that there are bourgeois parties who are addressing me to see whether I will be a co-sponsor of their proposals. I really think that the resolution here is fairly balanced, because it suggests that the Bureau should initiate an analysis of the Parliament's annual greenhouse gas emissions and, on the basis of this, by 1 October 2019 draw up a strategy and an action plan that will lead to a CO2 I find it difficult to see that it can be done more quickly; that the Bureau should make an analysis by October and then act on a strategy. One might ask whether the Folketing is going to take the lead. No, it does not, after the European Parliament has done so. We are here in Copenhagen, which has an effort to become the first capital, which is CO2 It is quite natural that a larger workplace such as the Danish Parliament is also involved in those processes and is working positively on Copenhagen becoming a CO2 If you look out in the country, there are a number of municipalities that have actually worked seriously on energy savings and CO2 I think there would be something you could learn from the municipalities that are the most advanced. Can you buy yourself for it all? That's part of it. It is of course interesting that there are some municipalities involved in their processes to set up wind turbines which they will then become co-owners of. It is not a windmill out in the palace square that can be considered. I also think it would be a bit of trouble if we put the mills out at Gentofte Municipality. But it is, in fact, a concrete possibility to have mills relatively close to Christiansborg if it is the case that one's energy supply has to be covered by renewable energy. I think there could be some exciting projects you could do. We could decide in the Folketing that much more state forest needs to be established, and that a good calculation was made for the large state forest to compensate for the CO2 I think that the place where what to say is CO2 It has to be compensated somehow. It could be by afforestation in Denmark. It could also be, by going in and supporting, that more forests are being erected in other countries. It could be part of our climate assistance to other countries. So I think it is a good thing if there is a majority in favour of this and it sounds as if there could be when the rapporteur of the Left calls for a joint report. I think that would be a good thing. Well, who can be against us coming to the conclusion that the Folketing must have a work, which on the accounts is a CO2 After all, we are in an old building which is a little difficult to refurbished. So we are faced with something that will end up in the fact that we have to make investments which are probably outside the house. I think this is a good proposal, and I think it is also realistic that we can come up with a proposal for an action plan and a strategy in October. In fact, the Enhedslisten thinks it is a very good proposal. And I don't think the intention has been to keep anyone out. I think it would be really nice if we could bring the whole parliament together.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221191109	Thank you. Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen, a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221191114	Thank you. After all, the unitary list has its size as the fourth largest party in the parliament a seat in the Bureau, which is why I should just like to ask whether it is because the Bureau member of the Enhedslisten has an objection to the proposal that it has been tabled in the Chamber instead of raising it in the Bureau where the right thing belongs.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221191132	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221191135	I think it could have started in the Bureau too, but I think it is a good thing that it starts with a debate in the Assembly, that is to say: can it be finer? So I think it is a good thing that we are starting and trying to find out whether this is a task that the Danish Parliament can give to the Bureau. One might also ask: why has the Bureau not taken the lead when they could see that the European Parliament had decided something? So I actually think there's no problem with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221191203	Here you go, sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221191206	Well, it is a good question why no one in the Bureau has raised this matter, since it means something to them and they think it should be tabled as a motion for a resolution. After all, there are two of the parties who are the motion for a resolution here, who have members of the Bureau, and who could have raised the matter there. But I just think that it opens up a strange trend if everything that the Bureau has actually been asked to do on behalf of the Folketing is only just to be rounded up in the Folketing, and then we have to ask the Bureau to do so. Where is the confidence in the Bureau to carry out the task of the Bureau? Why do you really want to have a member of the Bureau in the Enhedslist if you still think that it is the Folketing that should decide on these matters outside the Bureau?
ParlaMint-DK_20190221191242	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221191245	Well, it's not a either or. I am aware that the Bureau sometimes has long agendas, so it is my impression that they have many things to do, which relate to the ability of Members of Parliament to work well in this Parliament. Here, then, is a matter that they have not addressed themselves, but I think it is quite fine that there are then parties that take the depechen and drag it into the Parliamentary Chamber and define a task for the Bureau.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221191306	Thank you to the rapporteur. Since there is no minister, perhaps I can say quietly that this matter has not been on the Bureau's list of meetings at any time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221191326	Sometimes you're reminded of how low you are when you get up here on the platform. President. - I am aware of that.' The climate crisis is the biggest challenge of our time, it is in Denmark, it is in Europe, and it is for the whole planet. We face a challenge that we have not tried to answer in the past, but we need to respond to both more and more quickly. We know from the United Nations Climate Panel when a report on the one-and-a-half target came in the autumn that, fortunately, we have the opportunity to do something about the climate crisis, but we need to act really, really quickly. That's where we're gonna have to look all the way around. We must make good policies that enable our society to act in relation to the climate crisis and to make the necessary green transition. We must make good policies that enable us to act internationally in the various forums we are in, precisely so that we can do something together. But like many large companies and large jobs, of course, we also have to look inwards here in the Danish Parliament, which is also a large workplace, and which is a big house, and ask: how can we look at our own behaviour and how we use energy and emit CO2 Therefore, at least it has been inspiring for me to dive into the work of the European Parliament, which has been very focused on this, and naturally start looking at how we can do this and make a change really quickly in the Folketing, which is already used to taking the lead in a number of areas, and we think it is quite natural to go along with it here. Fortunately, I also hear a fairly broad support for the fact that this is a job that we need to go ahead with. This is positive and I am very pleased about it. Then there has been a little talk about why the Bureau has not been contacted and why a majority has not been sought before it came to the Chamber. In addition, I must say in all silence that in October there was a search in all the parties of the Danish Parliament as to whether we should say together: let us start with this in connection with the opening. There was no desire for that. Then we have looked at how we were able to go further by those parties who actually wanted to go further, and we really think that it is a good way as a united Parliament to say it, namely that it is said here in the Parliamentary Chamber. It has nothing to do with disrespect or anything else about the great work the Bureau is doing for all of us in here. On the contrary. It is in fact to give it the strength that lies in the fact that a Parliament can discuss and Members can take a position on this matter and say: this is something we want to resolve together. That is what this motion for a resolution calls for. And, of course, I hope that in committee we will make further progress, so that we have the broad majority, despite ironic distance from some of the rapporteurs. So thank you so far for the treatment here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221191624	Then there is a question from Mr. Thomas Danielsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221191628	Thank you. That's mostly a comment. The rapporteur is very sorry, because it is quite right that back in October a finger was searched and put in the ground. So it's wrong for me to say what I said. I should, of course, have been right to say that when the motion for a resolution was drawn up.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221191647	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221191651	I completely admit that, of course, you can always approach these things in many ways. I have nothing against the fact that we sometimes go to the Parliamentary Chamber and actually have a treatment here and find out how we can meet each other. I think we only have good discussions here when it is, and everything does not have to be agreed in advance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221191707	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. I think the next rapporteur, the rapporteur on the Radical Left, is not here. Well, actually, there aren't any more. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190221191729	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday, February 22, 2019. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
