ParlaMint-DK_20191105130004	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B-22 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a better indoor climate in schools). Karina Adsbøl (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 23 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on financial compensation in respect of appeals). Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl (DF) and Alex Ahrendtsen (DF): Request no. F 17 (Will the government, based on the previous government plan •Digitization with consideration and vision • Towards a new digitalisation strategy for the teaching area • From March 2019, explain what the status is on the plan and how the government is dealing with a recently published major international study, which points out that school students become worse readers when iPads and learning platforms replace books and paper, cf. The article "Sleeving makes Danish school students into worse readers" in Politiken, 28 October 2019, and the article "The students have more difficulty immersing themselves when reading on a screen in Politiken, 29 October 2019?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). Paragraph 6 of the agenda, the motion for a resolution on the rejection of asylum children must be given better conditions in home and exit centres and temporary residence permits within 18 months of final refusal, motion for a resolution No. B 2 and item 7 of the agenda, proposed amendments to the Aliens Act, are deleted from today's agenda at the request of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20191105130115	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption. There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 4 by Lars Aslan Rasmussen (S), Jan E. Jørgensen (V), Jens Rohde (RV) and Balder Mørk Andersen (SF). A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 88 (S, V, RV, SF, KF, ALT and 2 DF (by mistake)), against 20 (DF, EL, NB and LA), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 4 has been adopted. This brings us to the motion for a resolution. V 5 by Victoria Velasquez (EL) and motion for a resolution No. V 6 of Morten Messerschmidt (DF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191105130217	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption. There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 7 by Lars Aslan Rasmussen (S), Jan E. Jørgensen (V), Jens Rohde (RV), Balder Mørk Andersen (SF) and Katarina Ammitzbøll (KF). A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour 85 (S, V, RV, SF and KF), against 24 (DF, EL, NB and LA), abstentions 3 (ALT). Proposal for adoption No V 7 is adopted. This brings us to the motion for a resolution. V 8 by Victoria Velasquez (EL) and motion for a resolution No. V 9 by Mr. Morten Messerschmidt (DF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191105130316	There is a proposal. V 3 by Annette Lind (S), Michael Aastrup Jensen (V), Søren Espersen (DF), Martin Lidegaard (RV), Karsten Hønge (SF), Eva Flyvholm (EL), Nase Khader (KF), Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT) and Henrik Dahl (LA), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 109 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT and LA), against 2 (NB), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 3 has been adopted. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191105130414	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? I think sir... Karsten Hønge wishes to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191105130423	We have waited to make our position known today because we have expressed a desire to join the conciliation circle. This case has apparently not been settled yet. SF has certainly not received a positive feedback that we could become part of the conciliation circle. In the situation that SF was part of it, it would be obvious that we voted in favour of all elements of what such a conciliation might contain. However, what we are facing today is the limited corner that is about two things: to raise the basic allowance and then to next to the payment also give a premium to those who want to work after retirement age. After all, the Danish Parliament has previously taken a position on the division of the bill and did not think it was a good idea, because it is the case that one part of the issue of raising the basic allowance seems to us to be a good idea, because it is a fair and equal treatment for all employees who have an opportunity to do so, and there is also a certain amount of dispute with the spouse's dependency in it. So that part of it we like. Then there's the other part. See, it's always tempting to accept carrots, as they say. This is something that should encourage people to work, and then you might think it was a good idea to spend 180 million. kr. I would like to ask who is really harmed by it, apart from taxpayers? That is why we have come to the conclusion that it may be a good idea to give a carrot to pensioners who work after they could have retired, but it is not for us to see a fair ratio between the amount spent and the marginal employment effect that lies in it. Far down the road, it is people who, as we can see from the answers to the questions I have also put to the Minister for Employment, and after the discussion at first reading, would have already continued working. Now they continue, and after the proposal here they get a tax-free premium in the first year of DKK 42,000.; now we introduce a second year when they get a tax-free prize of 25,000 kroner. If you look at who you expect to use the scheme, we can see that the average wage is in the region of DKK 44,000. a month plus a pension scheme. So who is this for? In other words, it is primarily for the benefit of some people who would in all likelihood have continued to work. For those who continue, the employment effect is marginal, and the others belong to the higher middle class. But, of course, it's good that these people are still working. We think that's fine, too. Overall, the SF votes yellow to the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191105130644	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. There are no brief comments. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191105130652	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 102 (S, V, DF, RV, EL, KF, ALT, NB and LA) voted against 0, abstentions 9 (SF). The bill has been passed and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191105130734	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191105130749	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 6 November 2019 at 6:00 a.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
