ParlaMint-DK_20190423130014	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423130022	We begin the meeting with one minute's silence to commemorate the victims of the attacks in Sri Lanka. Our thoughts and compassion go to the bereaved. At the same time, let it be a sign that we are united in our common democracy and free society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423130149	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423130209	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. In favour of 68 (S, V, LA, RV and KF), against 42 (DF, EL, ALT and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423130242	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423130306	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. In favour of 103 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 9 (EL), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423130332	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423130349	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. In favour, 114 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423130417	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423130435	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. In favour, 96 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV and KF) voted against 9 (EL), abstained 4 (SF). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423130507	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423130523	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. In favour of 87 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423130554	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423130611	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. In favour 104 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstentions 9 (EL). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423130639	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423130654	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 88 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423130719	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423130737	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 114 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423130801	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423130833	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 15 (EL and ALT), against 89 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions were 9 (RV and SF). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423130905	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423130930	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 15 (EL and ALT), against 89 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions were 9 (RV and SF). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423131001	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423131019	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. In favour of 19 (EL, ALT and SF), against 93 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423131045	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423131104	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 19 (EL, ALT and SF), against 94 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423131129	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423131149	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2, to be elected by the Committee? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 3 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT, SF and IA). The vote is over. In favour of 19 (EL, ALT and SF), against 94 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 0. Amendment No. 3 is rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 1 and 4, submitted and joined by the same minority, lapsed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423131242	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423131309	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423131350	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423131412	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-6, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423131429	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Since that is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423131451	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-6, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423131508	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Since that is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423131529	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2 of a minority (DF), elected by a majority (other committee)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423131549	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Since that is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423131610	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 by a minority (SF), elected by a majority (the other committee), that the bill is divided into three legislative proposals. Sharing the bill in three legislative proposals has been adopted. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 6-9 to the undivided bill lapsed. [Proposal for a law amending the Law on the Use of Force in Psychology, etc., Law on Psychiatry, etc.] and the Health Act. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2 of a minority (SF), joined by a majority (S, DF, V, LA and KF)? It's agreed. [Proposal for a law amending the Law on the Use of Force in Psychology, etc.] and the law on the administration of justice. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 3 and 4 of a minority (SF), elected by a majority (other committee)? They are adopted. Final vote on the draft law referred to in C [Proposal for a law amending the law on the use of coercion in psychiatry, etc.] Law on the authorization of health professionals and on medical activities. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 5 of a minority (SF), elected by a majority (other committee)? It's agreed. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423131723	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423131746	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-6, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423131803	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423131830	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Since that is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423131900	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423131920	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-4, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423131939	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Since that is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423132001	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (EL) and a vote can be taken. The vote is over. In favour of 9 (EL), against 104 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. 3 by the same minority as rejected. It has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 4 of a minority (EL) and a vote can be taken. The vote is over. In favour of 9 (EL), against 103 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 5 and 6 members of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423132127	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423132529	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 25 April 2019. It is first the rapporteur for the questioners, sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423132605	The political situation in Turkey continues to deteriorate. Freedom of expression is under pressure, and all the media of importance are either closed or taken over by the supporters of the government. Freedom of assembly is being imposed, as is freedom of religion, thousands of public servants are being sacked in order to express positions that differ from the regime, and any criticism of President Erdogan is being severely defeated. It is understandable, at least for the questioners, that the backers of the 2016 coup should be prosecuted and punished. No one has the right to try to carry out a coup, so it is a matter entirely separate. But the reality is that we have gone much further than punishing the coups in the undermining of democratic standards. A concrete expression of this is the thousands of political prisoners in Turkey, including many elected parliamentarians, mayors and city councillors. That is why we, the Social Democratic Party, the SF, the Alternative and the Enhedslist, have today chosen to highlight the political prisoners with this question debate: what can the Foreign Minister say about their situation, and what initiatives has the government and the European Union taken in this regard? We look forward to the Government's response and to the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423132741	Thank you. And then it's the Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423132751	Thank you. Thank you to the questioners for giving us an opportunity to discuss the current political situation in Turkey. This is a situation which is also of great concern to the government. Turkey is a country that we cannot ignore in NATO an ally and, in many ways, a close partner of the European Union and a key player in dealing with migration flows. Turkey is geographically in the meeting place between Europe and the Middle East and could be a role model for how democracy, respect for fundamental rights and the rule of law can be a fruitful interaction with other cultural and religious traditions. I am all the more in agreement with the questioners that developments in Turkey in the field of human rights and the rule of law are very worrying and very regrettable. It has particularly gone downhill after the coup attempt in July 2016. The coup attempt was bloody and traumatizing for the Turkish people. It sent tremors through Turkey, and that is understandable. Unfortunately, we have to note that the ensuing state of emergency was not only used to break up the forces behind the coup attempt; it was also used to hit critics of the Turkish Government more widely, including opposition politicians, journalists and human rights defenders. The derogation expired in July 2018 and was not extended. However, new legislation and decrees mean that the Turkish authorities continue to have many of the same powers as in the state of emergency, so that the media and opposition have not been loosened on the contrary. Let me draw attention to the latest report by Amnesty International on Turkey. It clearly concludes that the judicial system is not independent and impartial in politically sensitive matters. Amnesty International points out that there has been a strengthening of executive control over the judicial system of widespread arrests, dismissal of judges and prosecutors and repeated attacks on lawyers. It is a widespread assessment that over 130,000 public employees were fired in the wake of the attempted coup, and of them approx. 10,000 got their jobs back • only 10,000 people. It is estimated that more than 40,000 people are currently in prison for terrorist-related matters, including journalists and elected politicians, especially from the Kurdish opposition party HDP. Yes, Turkey faces security threats from terrorist groups such as the PKK, and yes, Turkey, like any other country, has the right to defend itself against terrorism. However, the answer must be proportionate and respect the legal certainty of citizens, and unfortunately I do not think that is the case at the moment. There are far too many examples of people imprisoned on the basis of terrorist charges not being terrorists. The list is too long to go into here, but it includes journalists and other media employees, representatives of civil society, human rights defenders and elected members of parliament. Like most people in this Chamber, I find the imprisonments disturbing. In view of the negative and unacceptable developments in Turkey, the government is taking a resolute and consistent approach, we believe. We consistently raise questions about detention cases, where appropriate, in the bilateral dialogue with representatives of the Turkish Government. This applies both to contacts at political level and at official level. For example, I myself raised the issue during my last meeting with the Turkish Foreign Minister in the margins of the OSCE Ministerial Council on 6 December 2018 in Milan, and I will maintain that pressure. In Turkey, the Danish ambassador regularly discusses developments with parliamentarians, governors, authorities, journalists and civil society. The Embassy also follows, in cooperation with EU countries and other like-minded countries, and to the extent that the resources are available, legal proceedings relating to the human rights situation. This includes legal proceedings against imprisoned politicians, human rights defenders and Igbti people. At the same time, I must make it clear that it is limited what Denmark alone can do to pressure Turkey to respect democracy, fundamental rights and the rule of law. It is primarily in international fora that Denmark can help to maintain international pressure on Turkey. And I can assure you that we in Denmark are consistently taking every opportunity to criticise and maintain pressure on the Turkish Government to ensure respect for human rights and international obligations. As you know, the government has clearly declared with regard to the European Union that the EU accession negotiations with Turkey are hopeless and should be stopped. This is precisely because the country under Erdogan is moving the wrong way in terms of democracy and human rights. Not many other EU countries have reported as clearly as Denmark does. But the government believes that this is right in the current situation. We are convinced that it is important to send a very clear and very concrete message to Turkey. In other areas, there is agreement within the European Union. It was a united European Union that agreed in 2018 to conclude that Turkey has moved further away from the European Union and that the accession negotiations therefore stand still. It was also decided to reduce and concentrate EU pre-accession assistance on democracy and civil society interventions, and EU assistance to Turkey will now mainly go to the forces of the country we would like to support. I think that is a good thing. In March, the EU High Representative, Mogherini, and Commissioner Hahn met with the Turkish Foreign Minister. On that occasion, you again raised criticisms of democracy and human rights, and this was done firmly. The Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the OSCE on a daily basis, is another central forum for cooperation on European security and for promoting freedoms and democracy. Here the government has taken the initiative and actively supported the EU's criticism with one voice of the increasing pressure on the rule of law, democratic principles and fundamental freedoms, as well as the treatment of prisoners in Turkish prisons. It makes a difference. Individual cases have been raised where government-critical journalists and human rights defenders are imprisoned on a questionable basis. The OSCE Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights, ODIHR, and the Media Freedom Representative also address developments in Turkey. Journalists' conditions and the undermined justice system have been the subject of harsh criticism. Denmark has also been clear in the UN Human Rights Council in its criticism of the negative developments in Turkey. I personally drew the Council's attention to the seriousness of the situation last month when I participated in the high-level segment of the UN Human Rights Council. We have worked consistently and continuously on the Danish side to ensure that the problematic situation in Turkey has been pointed out in EU contributions to Council meetings over the last year. During the Council's most recent evaluation, Denmark recommended that Turkey focus on preventing discrimination against minorities and greater division of power, among others. to ensure greater transparency and to combat impunity. The Council of Europe is another central forum for ensuring the essential values of democracy, human rights and the rule of law in Europe. Denmark, too, as a former country of the Presidency, has an important voice in maintaining Turkey's respect for the values of the Council of Europe and in preventing Turkey's violations of the European Convention on Human Rights. Turkey is still under full monitoring in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, PACE, and there are still a very large number of complaints about Turkey before the European Court of Human Rights. The cases dealt with in particular: detention of journalists and political activists. Denmark is currently contributing as the main donor to the Council of Europe's project to combat maltreatment in the Turkish legal system, and the government is constantly aware of how best to support development for the better in Turkey. I would like to thank you once again for the question. The Government agrees that developments in Turkey in the area of the rule of law and fundamental rights are deeply worrying. This also applies to the many imprisonments on a questionable basis. I would also like to thank the Members of Parliament who are personally active in this matter. It sends out a strong signal that Danish parliamentarians are also actively pressing in the Council of Europe and have also themselves gone to Turkey to attend legal proceedings. The government is open to dialogue on how best to influence developments in Turkey. It is important to maintain the pressure on the Turkish Government, both bilaterally in the EU context and in relevant international fora, in order to release people who have been imprisoned for political reasons as soon as possible. However, this also applies to efforts to bring Turkey back to a positive development in terms of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423133730	Thank you. A brief comment can be made, but it does not seem to me that there is a request for a brief comment. Yeah, it came there now. Here you go, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423133742	Thank you. After all, it was a very fine speech, in which many of the things that have already been done were mentioned both by Denmark and by the European Union. But I'm a little curious to hear what the government really says is the next step. For now we have seen this situation in Turkey getting worse step by step, and at some point we have to use more tools when we obviously do not care when we see that prisoners have to go hungry and so on. etc. So when does the Minister think more specifically that we are going to do more? Because it is an ally of NATO and there is a large agreement on refugees on the part of the European Union and so on. There are a lot of great things that Turkey benefits from. When are we going to do something more concrete?
ParlaMint-DK_20190423133832	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423133833	So, first of all, I think that we are perhaps one of the countries that has sent out the strongest signal at all in Europe, by sending out a clear signal that we do not believe that Turkey should join the European Union. Here we have stepped outside the broad middle track if you are to use the expression, which is what we normally use in foreign policy and take the lead with a good example. It's a strong, strong signal. In addition to that, I think we must recognise that, to the extent that we have to influence the concrete, we must do so very much in cooperation with other countries, because our voice alone is too easy to ignore. So the combination of constantly taking it up in bilateral talks, both at political and at official level, and the clear signal we have sent in relation to Turkey's future in the European Union, and so I think that cooperation with the other countries is the right way forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423133923	Thank you. There are no further comments, so we will move on to the debate and the general rules for the rapporteurs. Once again, it is the rapporteur for the questions, Mr President. Søren Søndergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423133939	Thank you and thank you to the Minister for your reply. Before Easter, a conference was held in the Interparliamentary Union, the IPU. In fact, this is something that we are all members of. It consists of parliaments or parliamentarians from all over the world, except some individual states, for example. The United States, which does not want to be involved, but otherwise there are parliamentarians from all over the world in the Interparliamentary Union. Under the IPU there is a special committee dealing with the human rights of parliamentarians, and it is quite natural that you have a parliamentary organisation, and then you look at the parliamentary organisation: are there any of our colleagues who are subjected to human rights violations? Are there any of our colleagues who are being persecuted to the extent that we have to say no? This Committee on Human Rights for Members of Parliament does so, and in connection with the meeting that was held, they then published a 32-page report exclusively on Turkey. There were a number of countries that were raised at the meeting, among others. Venezuela and a number of countries in Africa, etc. where human rights violations were criticised, but they had a special report on Turkey, where, as you can see, they went through a large number of the problems that were, and that is actually relatively creepy reading. The Conference also approved an opinion on Turkey, which dealt with 61 specific persons, 61 specific persons, 18 current parliamentarians and 43 former parliamentarians, i.e. parliamentarians who had been subjected to human rights violations, arrests and imprisonment, while they had been elected to parliament, all members of the opposition in Turkey, 34 men and 27 women. The opinion that was presented expresses a deep concern at the 600 criminal charges being made against these Members of Parliament, because these charges mainly concern purely public statements, for example. speaks in Parliament, that one is in favour of peace or that one is in favour of negotiation. This type of thing is being used as an argument for raising cases, and it is about organising peaceful meetings and demonstrations, etc. What is interesting about the statement that came in this context was that it stated that all these activities fall within the right to freedom of expression, freedom of assembly and freedom of association, which should be protected by Turkish law, but which is not so, and on that basis it called on all the Members of Parliament to take concrete steps to express their support for this urgent opinion and to express their solidarity with the parliamentarians affected. This statement was approved by an overwhelming majority of those present. Some people didn't vote for it. The Turkish delegation did not. It emigrated in protest against a critical light being placed on them so that they were emigrated and were not present, but otherwise it was a resolution that received broad support, and I think that is a rather important backdrop to the discussion that we have today: we have an international organisation of parliamentarians who have some investigative bodies that send out rapporteurs there, who are trying to get some meetings, call the opposition, call the government and come up with some input, and that input is quite clear. What is happening in Turkey is deeply worrying, and they call for, among other things, that: the Danish Parliament and all other parliaments to show parliamentary solidarity. I would like to say that a number of the things that were called for have been followed here in the Danish Parliament. As the Minister has said, we have a standing agreement in a number of committees where we send people to trial in Turkey, which is a very good thing to ensure that things are done properly. There is only one problem with this initiative, and it is not in the initiative itself, but it is that we, apart from two trials in Diyarbakir, like Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen has been given the opportunity to attend, has been prevented from accessing all other hearings. All other hearings have been prevented by the Turkish authorities, despite the fact that Turkish legislation clearly states that this is public access. That is why it is of course important that more should be done than that. We can only welcome a number of the things that the Minister has mentioned. We think it is quite brilliant, and I shall come back to other things that I could propose in a later statement from this House.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423134521	Thank you. Then we move on to the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr. President. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423134534	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I very much agree with what is being said. After all, the number of political prisoners in Turkey has never been greater than under the Erdogan Islamist regime. Any critic or opponent of his regime risks not only violent personal consequences, but also consequences for one's family and those closest to him. Turkey has thus become the world's largest prison for journalists. They have even overtaken China in that area. Several journalists have even been sentenced to life imprisonment. It may be to use wrong words or criticize Erdogan personally. Even satires are being put in prison. Both politicians in the Turkish secular opposition and the Kurdish opposition are being hunted down, and democratically elected mayors, city councillors, trade unionists and others who are interfering in the political debate risk imprisonment with absurd accusations. The other day, the leader of Turkey's opposition, Kiliçdaroglu, was physically attacked in Ankara. Erdogan's persecution applies not only to political opponents but also to Turkey's large Alemite minorities, whose rights are restricted and who are experiencing a growing form of harassment and various forms of persecution. But Erdogan's tentacles also reach Denmark. We know that there is officially a stick line, we know how Danish citizens are being spied on by Erdogan. There are people who cannot come to Turkey, people who are stopped and, in some cases, also imprisoned, who cannot enter or cannot get out of Turkey. We have also seen how German comedians are wanted to be extradited to Turkey. So this is something that is happening throughout Europe. So Erdogan's tentacles are not only limited to what is happening in Turkey. We therefore owe it to our imprisoned colleagues, democratically elected colleagues, to speak out against Turkey, and we owe it to all the courageous men and women who every day try to make a difference in Turkey in the fight for freedom and democracy, not to forget them. On behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Enhedslisten, the Alternative, the Radical Left and the SF I shall read and present the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament expresses concern about the increasing number of political prisoners in Turkey. The Folketing expresses particular concern at all the imprisoned parliamentarians and mayors who have expressed their political convictions in words. The place of elected MPs is not in prison, but in parliament. All imprisoned politicians for the two opposition parties HDP and CHP must be released immediately. The Folketing also expresses concern about the conditions and isolation under which many prisoners serve their sentences in Turkish prisons. The isolation of prisoners and years of obstacles from family and lawyer visits is contrary to human rights and must be removed. Parliament takes note of the ongoing and extensive protests against the lack of legal certainty and the poor conditions of prisoners. For this reason, Parliament calls on the Turkish authorities to find a solution quickly so that more deaths can be avoided. V 88).
ParlaMint-DK_20190423134829	Those were the words? Thank you for that and the proposal is part of the further discussions. Claus Kvist Hansen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423134844	Thank you for that, and thank you to the authors for bringing Turkey back on the agenda, and thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for some excellent and well-chosen words. If I were to borrow a small sentence from the Foreign Minister, it should be that Turkey is a country we cannot ignore. Unfortunately, this is really true, because if Turkey were a small state on the other side of the world, it was perhaps not so urgent about the problems that Turkey is putting on us all. After all, all of us rapporteurs are probably in turn here expressing the same dissatisfaction with Turkey in different words, and with great respect for the enthusiastic interest of the rapporteur Søren Søndergaard in this area, there are incredibly many individual cases that could be brought forward and commented on here from the platform. A multitude of names of people who have been caught up in the Turkish system could be brought into play, and many figures on how many critics of one kind or another are imprisoned and persecuted, and all of this, of course, covers the fact that we are dealing with a genuine dictatorship. Whether it is a dictatorship in the classical sense or whether it has gradually become an Islamist dictatorship, one can take a discussion on it, but at least part of the problem from the point of view of the Danish People's Party is also that Turkey is moving in an increasingly Islamist direction. That is of course worrying in itself, and it is of course also worrying that we have Turkey as a full member of NATO, but sometimes we have to try to be friends with regimes, which we might actually like to do without. Turkey's position in relation to the European Union is also a little different, and the repeated and prolonged persecution of mayors, parliamentarians, academics and teachers, and people who would like to tell the truth and take advantage of the rules of the game of democracy. These countless attacks, of course, also cause one to consider whether it is at last time that the world community, or at least the European Union, should finally stop thinking and planning about Turkey as a member of the European Union. That is something we can hope for, and we do so at least by the Danish People's Party. I do not think I want to deal more with individual specific cases and situations and people being persecuted. I really think that we have come up with a very good idea in advance. On behalf of the Left, Liberal Alliance, Conservatives and the Danish People's Party, I would like to read and make the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament reiterates its criticism of the negative developments in Turkey in the area of the rule of law and in the area of fundamental rights. The Folketing also expresses its concern about Turkey's continued imprisonment of persons solely on the basis of peaceful political activities, including the exercise of freedom of expression. V 89).
ParlaMint-DK_20190423135235	Thank you. This proposal for adoption is also included in the further negotiations. There is a brief comment. Sir. Søren Søndergaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423135239	Thank you. The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party says that Turkey is moving in Islamist direction. One example is the release of the alleged perpetrator of the attempted assassination of Lars Hedegaard, who was detained in Turkish prison and who was extradited by Turkey to the Islamic State, after which he has sat in Raqqa and had a good time making bomb recipes for the detention of Australian passenger planes and planning terrorist actions in the West. After all, we have also seen how it has been directly admitted that Islamist terrorists could enter Syria from Turkey and attack the Kurdish forces in Kobane. So the evolution of Islamism in Turkey is quite obvious. But now Mr. Claus Kvist Kjær himself the question of the European Union, which is why I would like to take this opportunity to hear whether the Danish People's Party's criticism of Turkey goes so far that it also concerns membership of NATO, or whether, after all, it is not so critical of Turkey that it believes that their NATO membership should be brought to an end.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423135400	Here you go, sir. Claus Kvist Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423135401	Thank you. By the way, my name is Hansen and not Kjær for his last name. As I think I was able to merge when I spoke about Turkey's role in NATO, it is the case that not all friends and partners in a strategic community are necessarily good friends. After all, Turkey now has the geographical position and the key role in relation to the Middle East that they now have, and in the ideal world, the Danish People's Party would like Turkey to be somewhere other than NATO, but in the real world we believe that it is better to have Turkey under the NATO umbrella than outside, no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423135453	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423135454	First of all, I am very sorry that I was mistaken. Claus Kvist Hansen's surname with the name of a former member of the Danish Parliament, Klaus Kjær, who was also from the Danish People's Party. I'm sorry about that. As far as the question of NATO is concerned, are there no limits to that? Well, we now see how Turkey buys Russian rockets. They refuse to buy the rocket system that is used within NATO and choose instead of buying a Russian rocket system, which obviously involves some security risks if you look at it that way. Is there no limit to that? Or can one imagine a full-blooded Islamist dictatorship that is within the framework of NATO, as Mr. Claus Kvist Hansen wants us to be a part of?
ParlaMint-DK_20190423135550	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423135552	Thank you. I'm gonna try to displace the name mix, but it's gonna be okay. In the practical world things sometimes look different than we would want in an ideal world. Turkey is part of NATO now and, as regards whether a line should be drawn in the sand at some point, I think it might come, but it is hardly the Danish People's Party, and it may not even be the Folketing that will draw that line in the sand.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423135625	Thank you. Then we move on to the next rapporteur, who is Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423135636	First of all, I should like to express my thanks for the floor and, above all, I would like to thank both the authors of the motion for a resolution for a very interesting debate, but also the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the reply to the statement, with which, of course, we are fully in agreement. I am also very, very concerned about developments in Turkey. I myself have experienced being part of one of the delegations which the Danish Parliament has taken the initiative on, among other things. was with Mr. Søren Søndergaard and was down to experience how and how one could not observe such a trial, for it was the case that we were denied access to enter at all. Apparently, you thought that sir... Søren Søndergaard and myself were such a serious threat that the water cannons were actually driven into position. I understand we're a little dangerous when we get down there, apparently! Unfortunately, however, this shows clearly that what is happening is deeply, deeply critical. That is why, of course, we must also do everything we can to address it and press Turkey, hopefully, to correct it. There are, after all, a large number of initiatives that we can take. One is, of course, that we can say that it has consequences, and that is why I am very pleased that the government also has the line: Turkey cannot be an EU candidate country as long as it goes in the way it goes. There is no point in saying to Turkey that if they are just a little better than what they are now, there is this big carrot called EU membership. We have to say that there is such an extremely negative development in Turkey that then you cannot be a candidate country. Why, then, can one still be a member of NATO? After all, we had the debate just now. I believe that there is a big, big difference between NATO membership and EU membership. EU membership is a political union in which we cooperate in a wide range of policy areas. NATO membership is a military alliance in which we are together to protect our part of the world. I think we can do that with Turkey too, and in the future too. Some of the other things that we can address are via the Council of Europe. After all, the Council of Europe has put Turkey under full monitoring. It has made Turkey so angry that they have now removed their extra funds so that they are now only paying a quota, but yet it is one of the ways we can go by saying that there are, therefore, a whole range of things that we must address in a completely different way than perhaps we have done before, not least in terms of freedom of expression, not least in terms of political imprisonment, but also in terms of the access to the press that is extremely distorted at the moment. Having said that, it is of course extremely positive to see that, fortunately, a large pro-democratic group of people in Turkey still chooses to oppose it. We saw, of course, with the local elections that both in Istanbul and in Ankara there are these pro-democratic forces which, even though they are being attacked cross-checked and in every possible way in relation to freedom of the press, etc., or the lack of freedom of the press, are still away from this porridge, and it is they who, in some strange way, we from the Western world must try to help to gain even more power, as they hopefully have thought. That is one of the things I would like to be involved in, and that is why I think it is really exciting that we, through the Council of Europe, will hopefully be able to get a little better contact with some of the parties that, fortunately, will go the right way. Then I also think that what the Foreign Minister was talking about in relation to the UN Human Rights Council was really exciting. After all, we have gained a new position of power there, which we must of course take advantage of, even in relation to Turkey, and I think that is something that Turkey wants to respect, and that is why it was really, really, really exciting. So the sum of it all is that I am as nervous as I think the rest of the Folketing is, in terms of what the future holds for Turkey, but that we will do everything we can to try to get just about positive trends into Turkey, not least in terms of cooperation with the pro-democratic forces. That is why the Left supports the motion for a resolution, which was read out by Mr Seligman. Claus Kvist Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423140101	Thank you. There's no comment... yes, there is. Sir. Søren Søndergaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423140105	It's just a simple question. In other words, apart from NATO, I fully agree with what the rapporteur of the Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Group has to say about Turkey. I also really hope that we can continue the cooperation that has been in the Folketing to pay attention to this on the basis of the delegations working on this issue, among other things. by going to Turkey and focusing on it. So all due respect for that. One question: there are two proposals for adoption. The government side has had the opportunity to see our proposal for adoption before. That's what we sent you. We have not seen the government side's proposals for adoption. For some reason we have not been sent that. But could the rapporteur perhaps just say two words about where one sees the difference between the two statements?
ParlaMint-DK_20190423140159	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423140201	I think these are nuances, and that is why I hope that when we come to the vote itself, we can then agree on what the government has proposed, because that will be what will be voted on first.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423140212	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423140213	That then calls for a question: if it is only nuances, why do you make your own? The other one was there. One could relate to that, and then one could either say that one would agree, and then it would have been a unanimous Parliament that had put it forward, or say that the two or three nuances really had to be changed, and then they would probably have been changed, and then it would have been a unanimous Parliament behind it. Well, what's the reason? Is it such a kind of power perfection, or are there some more serious things than just some nuances?
ParlaMint-DK_20190423140240	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423140241	We have a government not only now, hopefully after the elections too, which has, of course, put forward a concrete proposal, and that is the norm in here that this is what we are negotiating on. And again: I hope that there will be a completely unanimous Parliament supporting this.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423140257	Thank you. There are no more comments. Sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423140307	Thank you for the floor. And thank you for calling this debate and for the exciting rapporteur speeches that have been made. In May 2017, on behalf of Foreign Policy, I visited Istanbul, Turkey, together with Mr. Holger K. Nielsen. Of course, I'm not gonna put Mr. Simpson down. Holger K. Nielsen had some kind of words in his mouth, but I would say that my impression from the conversations and exchanges of experience we had during the trip was that there is a rather broad consensus in the Folketing that the situation in Turkey is really, really serious, and there is also a fairly broad consensus on what the criticisms are. I myself found it disheartening in many ways to see the way Turkey is moving away from being a democratic country. But one of the things that really impressed me was the essence of what a number of the pro-democratic organisations and individuals we talked to said. If you have to boil it down to an essence, they told us who represented the Danish Parliament that we cannot just let the sun go down over Turkey. And that is, of course, what reflects the complexity. We have an autocratic government which there is every reason to criticise, a divided people and a country that cannot be ignored. That makes the whole situation very, very complicated. Of course, the situation becomes even more complicated by the really unheard-of idea that could be the subject of an independent debate, namely Erdogan's idea that in one way or another he is the head of state for all ethnic Turks, no matter where they are, whether they play on the German football team. Turkey is developing in relation to fundamental rights quite, very unfortunately. There are incarcerations on more than doubtful grounds. That is something that is difficult to look at implicitly, and neither do we. After all, we maintain pressure bilaterally. We are doing this in the EU context and in the various international fora where we are going, so that we can hopefully get politically imprisoned people released as soon as possible. But in the longer term, of course, we also need to get Turkey back, hopefully, on a more sensible path, so that these very democratically-minded people, with their visions for Turkey, can also be preserved and developed in a better direction. We welcome the debate and, of course, we support the proposal for adoption, which was read out by Mr Seligman. Claus Kvist Hansen. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423140638	Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423140641	Thank you. I certainly do not think that we should let the sun set on Turkey, primarily because I would say that more than half of the Turkish population has other wishes than those represented by Erdogan, and we should not abandon them. But, of course, we must always discuss the most effective tools. And there I can't help thinking that when Erdogan had taken a political prisoner from the United States, a priest, and kept him in prison, and that was a purely political action... Trump chose to use the economy as a weapon. And it was a very, very effective weapon, and that priest was very, very quickly released after that. That is why I think that if it could be considered, it would be possible to discuss whether the European Union could also use similar probate means, which would enable the political prisoners to be highlighted and a quick solution to the diplomacy which I fully recognise, but which has not really been found to be a solution so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423140748	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423140749	It's a little difficult for me to answer such a very detailed question. So, I think that, in relation to all such political conflicts, one should have a long stairway of escalation, one can walk up, and the steps should not be too high; but when one has to get up to the next step, I simply do not dare to make myself smart today on Parliament's platform. But appropriate escalation and descalation must always be possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423140819	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423140820	No, and it's quite okay that sir. Henrik Dahl won't. But I just want to ask you if Mr. Henrik Dahl will not confirm that when the US Government drew the economic map on Turkey, the cases got under way and there was an immediate release of the person in question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423140839	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423140840	What I'm saying now, I'm not saying to be polemical, but I don't know if there's a correlation or a causality here. I do not know what might also have been said outside the ears of journalists, in addition to these financial measures.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423140901	Thank you. We move on to the next rapporteur, who is Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423140910	The situation in Turkey is serious, and I think it has already been well outlined, both by Mr Tugendhat. Søren Søndergaard, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and several others. What is really so strange to me is when we start acting on everything we see happening. In other words, when we see hunger strikers, month after month, when we see the number of political prisoners only increasing and increasing when we see human rights violations, not just once, not twice, but everyday life, become the norm, when do we act? When are we starting to take some steps? Yes, it was announced from the Danish side that Turkey was not seen as a member of the European Union, but at the same time it happily continues to send billions on the basis of the agreement that has been made on the management of refugees from Member States of the European Union and to send billions down to Erdogan and his regime while they break human rights while breaking democratic rules while imprisoning journalists, parliamentarians, politicians, etc. etc. We stand and say that we cannot see them as a member, but we will be happy to pay them to keep refugees away and, at the same time, to break human rights. It is very, very mysterious for me to understand that we can do the two things at the same time. As the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party also said, there is a difference between NATO and the European Union; these are different situations. I am not really standing here talking about turning your back on Turkey completely, closing the door and not having a conversation at all, but at least thinking about sending billions. For what we have also done, that is to say the Member States of the European Union, with that agreement, is that we have no real choice in terms of how to deal with this money against Turkey, because then they will open the borders, and then we will have to look at the refugees again, and that is too dangerous for us. So it is really about whether we dare to show responsibility when we see a country like Turkey, with the situation we are experiencing right now. We should. We should do this without turning our backs on Turkey, without closing all the doors, but by starting to look at all the billions we are sending out, because it will be action that can be understood, it is action that can be felt, including by the regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423141156	Thank you. There are no comments, and we move on to Mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423141209	I think it was a good wording, the Foreign Minister used, that Turkey is a country that we cannot avoid, partly because of the geographical location it occupies, partly because it is an ally within NATO, and also because it has, in fact, played an historic role over millennia as a bridge-builder between Europe and the Middle East, and not least because of the very boring political developments that have been taking place in Turkey in recent years. In fact, during a period when we thought, well over six years ago, that Erdogan could pave the way for greater respect for the Kurdish minority, for long-term, peaceful and stable political development in the country. But it is a hope and an optimism which, unfortunately, has been put to shame and, instead, we have received the opposite. That is why I am fully in line with all the rapporteurs who have expressed their deep concern today. It is, of course, the case with countries which are both allies and which, at the same time, it has to be said, leave much to be desired in relation to democratic development, the protection of minorities and respect for fundamental legal principles, that, to the extent that one can stand together, both in the European Union, in NATO and in the Danish Parliament, about the criticism one makes, the stronger one speaks, the stronger one is one's starting point, and the more one will be listened to. I would therefore like to say that we think much should be done by the Danish Government in terms of creating common ground in the European Union here. What the European Union has to offer Turkey is, after all, a better economy. We are Turkey's main trading partner. Turkey's economy is nothing without exports to the EU. And that is something that can be used both as a whip and as a carrot in the negotiations you have with Turkey and can do more targeted than it is being done today. And I am quite clearly of the opinion that the Danish Government should take the lead in creating a greater unity of the European Union on this point, if it is to have an impact on the political development of Turkey. That is why I must say quite frankly that I am very annoyed without having to judge who is to blame and not to blame for the fact that a joint motion for a resolution has not been agreed today, as far as I can read the two proposals for adoption, there are quite a few nuances between them. I can certainly announce that we can vote in favour of both. Now we chose to become co-sponsors of what the opposition has gathered together on, because it may be a bit sharper in the nuance, but it is not much, and if it ends up with the government coming up first, we will vote for it too. It is just to say that it would then suit the Folketing in this matter that one had agreed, because consensus makes strong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423141503	Sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423141506	It is difficult for the rest of us to agree to something that we have not seen or received, but that is just the way it is. I would like to say that I thought it was really interesting that Mr. Martin Lidegaard raised the question of the European Union and how dependent Turkey is on the European Union. Both the old agreement and the current customs union agreement and any newly revised customs union agreement on relations between the European Union and Turkey make Turkey a Member State of the European Union. They do not have the right to vote and so on, but they do have a large number of the advantages that are usually said to be associated with EU membership. That's why I think it's interesting when Mr. Martin Lidegaard raises the question of whether it could at some point be possible to use the position that the European Union has towards Turkey to push for improvements, thereby supporting the large proportion of the Turkish population who want change. So I just wanted to sign for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423141617	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423141617-2	Thank you. I think that if you ask in general terms in Turkey, it is not their view that it is the same to be a full member as to have the position in the European Union that you can say you have today. As you know, there is, and as Mr. Søren Søndergaard knows all about a very strong political desire in Turkey to become a full member of the European Union. It is not only because it gives political influence to the direction that the European Union is taking, but also, of course, because there are some advantages to full membership that are not with it today. But the whole EU construction and the reason it is so brilliant and it really pleases my heart that Mr. Søren Søndergaard also sees the fact that the strength of cooperation, including trade policy, can be gradually built up in the EU, depending on how you think things are going, if I may say so, and depending on how far you are willing to go in Turkey in the very specific areas. And yes, it is a tool that I think can be used in many contexts and also in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423141715	Thank you. There are no more comments. Sir. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423141731	Many good things have been said by colleagues on the platform during this debate, and this shows that there is a broad criticism here in the Folketing of Turkish development. I think it is important to communicate to the outside world, including to the many people in Turkey who are in opposition to Erdogan, so that a united Parliament is behind the criticism of Erdogan's autocratic regime that those people are fighting. It's important. And in this context, I can quite share Mr. Henrik Dahl's description of our trip to Turkey a few years ago has been shown gradually, and the description of the negative developments that were then, and which have not improved since then, to put it mildly. I also agree with the Foreign Minister and the others who have said that Turkey is an important country, with which we must, of course, deal and have a relationship with what I would call a rational relationship. In this context, I do not think it makes much sense for the Danish Government to say that all negotiations on EU membership with Turkey will be suspended. I think that is quite unreasonable. I think it is much more sensible to say, as we have said, and as others have also said, that negotiations should be suspended temporarily until democratic improvements have been made in Turkey. It is important that we constantly try to squeeze the Turkish Government, also because it is the case that, although Erdogan is hard on power, he does not have all the power. There is, in fact, a democratic opposition which has proved quite strong in a number of cases. At the local elections here recently, the opposition to Erdogan and AKP was much stronger than Erdogan had expected so much that he might be able to hold the mayor's post in Istanbul does not know such fine tricks. We hope, of course, that everything will be right. But at any rate there was a very, very strong opposition, a great force in the opposition in local elections. In other words, it is not a clear picture of a country governed by a dictator. It is an autocratic regime, and he tries to drive as far as possible to change the constitution, to use his powers to put politicians out of business, which he is opposed to. And that is why it is important for us here in the Danish Parliament to locate the actions and show solidarity with the colleagues who have been imprisoned in Turkey, that we show solidarity with them, that they know that at least in the Danish Parliament they have some people, some colleagues, who are protesting against the situation in which they are placed. That is why it is important that we adopt a proposal for adoption during this debate. I also find it strange that two of them are almost the same. However, as I said, the key point is that a united Parliament expresses a strong criticism of the way Turkey is developing, a strong criticism of Erdogan's political repression of the opposition and solidarity with the parliamentarians, the fellow Members who are imprisoned in Turkey. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423142115	Thank you. The last rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423142126	Thank you to the authors of this important debate. I think it is important that we discuss Denmark's foreign policy every now and then, as a country, how we stand on the international stage. This is certainly one of the areas in which broad political consensus, which is involved, is important. At home we are soon faced with a parliamentary election, and when you look at Turkey, you are reminded to appreciate the Danish democracy, a democracy in which you do not imprison your political opponents, where the military does not operate on its own interests, but on the basis of the elected government and ultimately of the people, and where you do not fire judges and prosecutors or imprison opposition people at will. So there is reason to appreciate Danish democracy and our legal principles. After the so-called coup in 2016, Erdogan has really shown his true Islamic face. The coup attempt has been used to combat critics of Erdogan's government, including opposition politicians, journalists, human rights defenders, etc. Erdogan has also destroyed the Turkish model, which was otherwise used as a good example of bridge building between East and West. It has been the key to establishing coherence between the Middle East and Europe and also to reconciling modern ideals such as human rights, democracy and the rule of law with respect for different cultures and traditions. It is over now, so there is every reason to distance ourselves from that development. That is why I think it is important for Denmark to say clearly and clearly to Erdogan. We must do that where we can get to it on the international stage, first and foremost bilaterally, when representatives of the Turkish and Danish governments meet. Both politically and at official level, we have to say no. It is important that we continue to follow the trials against imprisoned political opponents and defenders of human rights, both through our own diplomacy in Turkey and at EU level. Here we must take every opportunity to express criticism and exert pressure. The European Union, of course, plays an important role here, because Denmark cannot do it alone. The European Union should not negotiate further with Turkey on accession to the European Union. They can forget that in our lifetime. It's pointless and sends out a completely wrong signal. It is gratifying that Denmark is one of the most significant voices in the European Union in that debate. Denmark must continue to be entrepreneurial when it comes to criticism of Erdogan, as when the government has pressed for the EU to criticise, for example, the treatment of prisoners in Turkish prisons and imprisonments on a questionable basis, to put it mildly. Both in the Council of Europe and in the UN Human Rights Council, it is important for Denmark to maintain its critical approach to Turkey's development. Denmark's foreign policy approach should be to fight for basic human rights, for democracy and for the rule of law wherever we can get to it. Basically, the more democracies in the world, the more peace and happiness. Having said all that, I would like to conclude by saying that we in the Conservative People's Party support the government's excellent proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423142512	Thank you. There are no comments. Minister of Foreign Affairs, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423142524	I would just like to thank you very briefly for a good debate on a debate which shows, of course, that there is a very broad majority in the Folketing which covers all of us, who agree that there must be a critical view of what is happening in Turkey. There are some nuances to whether it was a good idea or not a good idea to send the clear signal to Turkey that we do not want them to join the European Union because they have gone too far in the wrong direction. Of course, I respect that. There can be arguments both one way and the other. I believe that this is helping to send out a signal that there are actually countries that are also willing to act on the movement which is clearly in the wrong direction, and this may be really, really important in that, with the criticism that we are making, we are not just being ignored by Turkey. But thank you again for a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423142617	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard, not with a comment, but as rapporteur in a final round.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423142630	Thank you. I would also like to thank you for the debate and for the input which, of course, is drawing in the same direction. I think that is a good thing. There is no doubt that this debate is extremely important. If anyone thinks that it is just about relations in Turkey and how some people in Turkey feel, then I think they are wrong. We have seen what the civil war in Syria has caused by the flow of refugees and instability. If you think you can continue the repression of half, or perhaps even half, of the people of Turkey without any reaction, then you are wrong. A civil war in Turkey will send millions and millions to flee, and there will be no Erdogan to pay to hold them back. They will stand in Europe immediately afterward. So anyone who does not see it as a serious task to ensure that the people of Turkey have tolerable conditions in Turkey invites a flood of refugees without equal. I would say that I don't think would be wise. I think it would be wiser to prevent rather than frantically to try to save the situation once it has arisen, and that is why this discussion is so important in terms of supporting the democratic forces. There has been a little talk about the fact that there have been two proposals for adoption, one known by all, the other known only by the governing parties and possibly one more party. The rest of us haven't been able to see it. I can see that the secret proposal for adoption is now being distributed, and then it may be that it can clarify it. Now I'm standing up here and I can't read what it says. But in the reading that was of it, I could immediately sense that there was a paragraph in the opposition's proposal that was not included here, and that was the paragraph which is not just about the political prisoners, because there is no doubt that the conditions of the political prisoners are terrible but also about the ordinary prisoners. The reason why this has been included is, of course, that the debate about who is a political prisoner and who is not a political prisoner has been discussed. There we think it is necessary to make it clear that because people are not political prisoners, this does not mean that they can be prevented for years from having access to a lawyer, to their defenders. Because people are not political prisoners, this does not mean that they can be deprived of the opportunity for years to be visited by their families. Because people are not characterised as political prisoners, this does not mean that people can be kept isolated for years. I think that is a very important point and it may be that it lies in the proposal for adoption which is now being distributed, and then I think it is brilliant. For that is what I think we agree on: political prisoners, people who have been held prisoner because they have expressed some political views peacefully, should not be prisoners at all, they should leave prisons, whereas people who have been convicted of having committed one or a crime should of course be in prison if that is the rule or the starting point, but even there are some rights. When this is an important question, it is of course because there is currently a hunger strike in Turkish prisons, which is largely not described anywhere, but which includes thousands of political prisoners or whatever they are going to call them prisoners, and which is precisely on the question of isolation. Unfortunately, this hunger strike will probably soon lead to the first parliamentarian starving himself to death in protest against that isolation. I think we should try to consider what that will mean for the situation in Turkey when it happens. That will not be a positive sign, and that is why there is also the call made by the opposition to raise this issue very strongly with the Turkish Government in order to avoid the situation of more deaths. Finally, thank you again for the debate. I very much hope that we can continue the cooperation we have had to clearly condemn what is happening in Turkey, and also what is involved in addressing it in the various bodies where we are working on the Council of Europe, the OSCE, the Interparliamentary Union and that the government takes it up with the Turkish counterpart of the UN Human Rights Council. It is very good, and it is also good, that, as a Parliament, we can continue to send parliamentary delegations with as broad a composition as possible, to monitor the trials and in this way to follow the invitation of the Interparliamentary Union, namely to show parliamentary solidarity with the fellow Members who have come into contact.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423143135	Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption will take place only on Thursday 25 April 2019, as I said.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423143203	The debate is open. Sir. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423143211	As the title shows, there are a number of different elements in the draft law here, as there are so often in the area of taxation. Here, then, there is first the question of a salesman's letter. It is the implementation of the Finance Act and before it is the implementation of the drought package from last summer, in which the Social Democratic Party was also involved. Here is the point, of course, that we will try to make it easier for young farmers who have to take over a farm to do so. Specifically, it is proposed... excuse me for a moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423143301	Yeah, it's nice to have the right talk, but I guess the other one's gonna need a little later, I guess. Here you go, sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423143318	Thank you. Sorry about that. But this bill also contains different points and a little bit about each of them. It was good that you didn't let me give the whole other speech before you told me that it was the wrong speech I had going on. First of all, this draft law provides for the possibility of refunding excise duties for the use of various taxed goods by §8 approved charitable organisations. So, in concrete terms, it is proposed that an organisation approved under this paragraph can be reimbursed excise duties paid in previous stages when chocolate and sugar products, coffee, ice products are donated for Christmas aid, help for poor families, for use in shelters or heating rooms etc. Best of all, it would be if, in our society, we had fewer problems with seriously poor families and people who need this type of help. But we now have that, and if more is to be done for them, it is the other legislative proposal that is at stake and other political discussions that we need to have. So there's the possibility that it might be a little more attractive to help these organizations access goods that they can use in their work. Of course, this does not apply to goods used by the organisation itself, or which end up being discarded by the organisation itself, or which it should itself undertake to sell on its own recycling shops or elsewhere, but only to donate it directly for help or for use in heating rooms or other places for which examples have been given. We think it is good to give the help that there are some taxes that can be refunded here and that we can more easily access these goods that end up benefiting some people in vulnerable situations. However, I think that it does make a number of points which need to be noted here. Well, first of all, Coop says that they don't think it will have the big effect on food waste, since this type of product isn't the ones that typically wasted a lot. At the same time, we have the problem of VAT on goods which are passed on. There has been press coverage of as late as Easter holidays here, where crawlers and associations and others will have access to goods that would otherwise be thrown out and where I understand that it is not the Minister, but the Left who will set up a working committee. I wonder if the Minister has ever had that matter on his desk and has not been able to do it during this parliamentary term, we must learn more about it in the Committee on Taxation. But it is also an important agenda to address, i.e. whether we can solve that problem. Finally, when you make such a scheme as this one, there is of course some bureaucracy with the fact that as an organization you will be required to fill out different forms, keep accounts, and on the authority side you will have to make different adjustments to the systems in order to manage these things. As I can see from the amounts indicated in the draft law, it actually ends up spending more money on offering those systems and managing this law in relation to the benefit it will end up doing out with the organisations. I think we should at least keep an eye on this, and we should try to make it as flexible and cheap as possible to make this arrangement. Otherwise, we might as well have just given those organisations some more money to run their work for. However, it is generally a sympathetic and good purpose which we would like to support. Another point in the draft law concerns the implementation of a new directive on VAT on simplifications for companies transferring goods from one country to their own warehouse in another country, where the goods are to be sold. It also seems sensible to be able to help companies with this type of trade to make it more administratively simple. On the one hand, there are some rules in this updating of the VAT directive which must combat VAT fraud, and there is good reason for this. This is an area where, unfortunately, there is a lot of fraud, but where there will be stricter requirements for those who are dealing with what the tax administration needs to know in order to make cross-border VAT on a sale. That's really good, too. To this end, we believe that the need for the tax administration to be stronger in controlling these conditions should be added, and we would like to reiterate our proposal to strengthen tax control of 1,000 extra employees, among others. It is necessary in the area of VAT. Finally, there are a number of tightening ups in the motor sector which translates parts of the agreement we have reached widely in the Folketing to curb fraud and fraud in connection with the export and import of cars. Of course, these are also measures that we can support. We regret that nothing has happened before, and we think it is a pity that there should be such long and critical reports from the Danish National Audit Office, critical coverage on Danmarks Radio, on finance.dk etc. before the Minister came into turn. Nevertheless, it is positive that we have made that agreement and are now implementing these things into the legislation. So you can sum up the bill so that it will be a little more attractive for producers and businesses to donate chocolate, coffee and other things to charity, that it will be a little easier to export and a little more difficult to fuck with VAT in the EU, and that we will get closer to getting order in the car sector when exporting and importing. These are sensible things we would like to support.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423143825	Thank you, sir. Jesper Petersen for a speech and a half within the moment. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423143834	Now I hope that's the right speech I've got here. If nothing else, it will be a mess if, under a later draft law, I have to refer to the first speech under this bill, and it could get worse. So I think I'm sticking to what I'm going to say now. As I said, this bill contains several elements. The first thing I would like to mention is the reimbursement of taxes, the goods of which are given to charity, which, of course, seems reasonable enough. If, for example, you're gonna have to... Donate some chocolate or some coffee to a box of Christmas help or coffee to shelters or heating rooms, it is made in such a way that you can recover some of your taxes if you have not received payment for the goods before. We even think that would be quite sensible, because it will help to give an incentive to donate the goods away instead of throwing them into the trash if they, for example, donate them. is close to an expiration date or other thing. But it is true, as the Socialist rapporteur says, that it also provides some bureaucracy, because there will be a lot of things to be said and recorded, and there will be some control work for tax administration. With the two advantages and disadvantages outweighed against each other, we still find it quite reasonable that we should give a greater incentive to now choose to donate some good goods for good purposes. Another element is the implementation of the new VAT directive, which includes: to make it harder to cheat on VAT in EU trade. This is an area we have seen there has been a great deal of fraud over many years. I do not think this will solve this completely, but after all it is some small adjustments that make there a slightly less chance of massive fraud with VAT across EU borders. Then there is the implementation of the agreement in the motor sector, which we have already concluded, in the light of the fact that, among other things, there is the agreement. A very critical report came from the National Audit Office, which showed that SKAT had known for three years that it was being cheated massively in this area. In fact, I think it is quite scandalous that it has been known for so long without acting on it, but when the report came forward and there had also been some press coverage on it, we chose in a unanimous Parliament, which after all is also positive, to respond to it and to abolish this self-reporting system, and we have then set in motion some other initiatives. Some of the agreement is then implemented here, among other things. by abolishing this allowance of 400 kroner if you are called for a survey of your vehicle. In general, it is a little special that we give people money to get to control if they are extracted. You don't do that in many other areas. If, for example, you're gonna have to... If you are forced to check excise duties in a candy store or something else, you are not paid to be checked. But all in all, there are good initiatives in this bill that the Danish People's Party can support.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423144110	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423144120	Thank you for the floor. As the two previous rapporteurs mentioned, these are a number of different elements of which this draft law consists, and one may sometimes wonder, but it is simply because there are so many legislative proposals in the field of taxation that some of them have to be put together in some major legislative proposals. However, as the previous rapporteurs have said, it can also be brought together in three groups with the elements involved here. One element is aimed at making it easier to sell or forward goods to charities. It is a question of relaxing excise duties imposed, for example. candy, chocolate and coffee and something like that, and that means that if the goods are sold cheaply to a charitable organisation on this section 8 A list, the organisation can recover the excise duties. This is a way of avoiding food waste, and one thing we in the Left value very much is that we can, in this way, come up with an initiative that tries to reduce the problems that exist in this area. It is true that it would be nice if we could just say that it was just a matter of VAT, but unfortunately we cannot. We are subject to a regulation that requires VAT to be collected. But you can choose to donate the goods for a small amount, and then you will only be VATed on the amount you give it away for, i.e. a symbolic amount. So you will not be forced to do it for the original value, but for what you donate it to. So this is an opportunity that is currently available and which I think is very positive. And with this relaxation in relation to these excise duties, we think it is a really good hand to give in order to avoid food waste. So that is as far as we can get at the moment, and I think that is really, really positive. The second part of the legislative proposal, as the previous rapporteurs also mentioned, concerns the EU VAT directive. It is a question of consigning stocks, chain trading and combating VAT fraud in EU trade, and these are a number of ways of trying to tighten up the rules, so that we do not get rid of VAT between EU countries and creative companies. So we think that is really, really positive. The last part that we can talk about is the part that is about tightening up in relation to the export allowance for cars. It is true that for some time now the focus has been on the fact that there has been a problem with the export allowance for cars, and after the Reichsrevisionen made their report, the tax minister called for negotiations with all the parties in the Danish parliament, and I am very pleased that all the parties will be involved in tightening up these rules so that we can hopefully ensure that no cheating is committed as before. I think this is really positive when we in the Folketing can work across the party and across the middle. So thank you for working together on that. In any case, I can say that the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423144416	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423144422	This bill is, after all, one of those, what to say, pile of legislative proposals that we are looking at in the area of taxation. As I said, it is about the possibility of recovering certain excise duties if the goods are used for humanitarian purposes. It is a question of organisations that could be Blue Cross or Save the Children's Day being exempt from excise duties on coffee and chocolate, which can then be used for heating rooms or other events. It's a very small amount, it costs approx. 1 million kr. a year, so that is something we can support. Then there are some tightenings in the area of VAT, as other rapporteurs also mentioned, on the question of consigning stocks, chain trading and combating VAT fraud. We can support that too. Then there is the last part of the bill, which is, of course, about tightening up in the area of the export and import of cars, something that we have had to do for a long time; something that is now going to be a bill in the Folketing; something that is part of some talk that we have had over with the tax minister and which also concerns the closure of leasing holes; there we still have a little work to do to close the last gaps, and there will probably be a bill on this before this year is over; not before this assembly is over, but before this year is over. So it is part of some talk we have had over with the tax minister about something that is very positive and which helps to close some gaps that have simply been speculated too seriously about exploiting, since some car importers and car exporters have been able to tamper with the rules and thus evaded paying what they should have paid from the outset in the view of the Enhedslisten. So it is also part of the legislative proposal that we can, of course, support, namely that we are being tightened up in relation to bogus exports and imports of cars. So, overall, we are in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423144617	Thank you, sir. Rune Lund. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423144626	Thank you very much for that, President. This bill deals with changes to rules in several areas of taxation. The aim is to create more simple and fair rules in the area of taxation. It's very much needed. We have too complicated and opaque tax legislation in Denmark. This entails high administrative costs for both the public and business sectors. The Chocolate Tax Act is an excellent example of this. The Chocolate Tax Act was introduced in 1922 and has long exceeded its shelf life date. It is so complicated that even the authorities are uncertain about how to administer it. We should put an end to that once and for all. This bill makes it possible for charities to recover taxes on chocolate, coffee and ice when you give this type of goods to, for example. shelters and others. We think that is sensible enough. Then we will also implement a new EU VAT directive, which will have to do away with cheating when goods are traded across borders. Finally, the motor industry is being tightened up in connection with the import and export of cars. It has also been necessary, but here too we think we should go to the root of the problem, namely that we have taxes on cars that are far too high. And when you have it, there are problems; then there are suddenly some who see an idea in going to the limits of the legislation and perhaps also violating them sometimes. But the root of the problem is that we have far too high taxes, which are in every way unreasonable, in this area. So we should also take action there and have more reasonable and transparent rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423144857	Thank you, sir. Joachim B. Olsen. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Julius Graakjær Grantzau, Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423144910	Thank you. Now the proposal has been so distinguishedly examined by several rapporteurs so far, and I can support most of what has been said. I have some questions that I would just like to ask in this context, and they are probably primarily addressed to the tax minister. First of all, I am a little surprised that the proposal consists of a number of proposals, one of which is an agreement reached in advance between all the parties and in which we have thus agreed to strengthen compliance with the rules in the motor sector, that is to say the agreement referred to in relation to the export and import of cars. It is an agreement that all parties have entered into with the tax minister, and I am a little annoyed that it is part of a legislative proposal which deals with other parts, which I am fortunately very much in favour of in this context, but it might well be that I wanted to mark something else in the other cases. But, of course, we will live up to the fact that we have reached an agreement, and so I regret that somehow we are forced to say yes and, if not, we will say yes, then what? Because we want to be part of the deal still gone. One of the questions I have on the other things that I am in favour of, i.e. excise duties and VAT, is that, as has been mentioned earlier, it is considered by Coop that this proposal for the refund of excise duties does not provide an increased incentive for at least Coop to donate and sell more to charities in order to avoid food waste. And then I just want to know if the tax minister can elaborate on what the tax minister's thoughts are about the effect of this proposal. However, we are positive about the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423145113	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423145119	As the alternative rapporteur also mentioned, I am not going to prolong the debate completely wildly by reviewing the details of the draft law. The Radical Left is in favour of the bill and we intend to vote in favour of it if it comes to the third reading. We think it is sensible for organisations such as the United States and Japan to be involved in this process. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer has not been accepted by the Commission. We also think that the EU directive to avoid VAT fraud is sensible, and it is good that it is implemented so that Denmark can also participate in that fight. After all, it is something that is getting bigger and bigger, the more we all deal in networks and buy things abroad and have them sent here. It is the case that you have to pay VAT in Denmark if you send a lot of things to Denmark, and I think we all do not really know that, in any case. The last is the issue of exports and imports of second-hand cars, in particular, where all parties agree to do something about the fraud we have seen. And one of the initiatives is then implemented here, where the tax administration gets more time to figure out what tax you have to pay when you import and export a car. We can support that. It is our view that this makes it easier and better for the tax administration to ensure that the tax to be collected is collected. So we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423145256	Thank you, sir. Andreas Steenberg. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423145303	My colleagues have explained quite well what the draft law is about, namely three main elements. There is an action against VAT fraud, which is the implementation of an EU directive, and it is very good that it is being put in there. Unfortunately, we have seen a great many examples of fraud through chain trading, where there are several links from the first to the last stage, and this is also an indication that we have different rules in the different EU countries. And now we often discuss bureaucracy, including in the area of taxation. That was also the subject of the Liberal Alliance's report, and it could certainly be very good to have more uniform rules here. Because it is precisely through those gaps that we see a great deal of fraud. So it is good that we get an effort through this. Then there is also reimbursement of excise duties for various charitable purposes. I also took note of some of the answers which suggested that it might not make the greatest difference. It doesn't hurt either. Let us hope that it actually makes a positive difference. Then, of course, there is, as Mr. Rune Lund mentioned the many, many long discussions we have had with the tax minister about motor fraud, where it is also very good that we see that action is being taken here after what we have agreed. There are still some outstanding issues, but overall SF can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423145450	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423145457	Thank you. The draft law here, as several of the previous rapporteurs have also mentioned, contains a great deal of changes in the area of taxation. And it is generally aimed at creating clearer and more reasonable rules for taxes. And, of course, this is something that the Conservative People's Party can support; it is a very fine step in the right direction. Nor should I prolong the debate by standing here and repeating everything. So I would just like to highlight the element which relates to the possibility of getting taxes back if you donate surplus food to charity. I think that's really good. We need to do more to combat food waste and to make better use of our resources as a whole, and then it does not make much sense to me that it is actually sometimes better worth throwing food into the trash rather than, for example, throwing food into the trash. to give them away to charity. So I think it's really nice. It's really nice that you get this opportunity to get back taxes. Then there are the other things about tightening up the engine sector, which we have made an agreement on, but I think they have been mentioned. And then there is the matter of implementing this VAT directive so that we can be better able to combat VAT fraud across EU borders. Of course, we support all the elements of the bill and support the entire Conservative bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423145618	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423145627	Thank you. I do not know whether this is due to the fact that the bill is so good and well thought out that there is no debate during the discussion, but there are perhaps other things that are pushing for politicians in the Folketing, namely a parliamentary election that is approaching. However, I now choose to base the first point on the fact that, despite the various challenges raised by the rapporteurs, it is a quite sensible legislative proposal which does not really give rise to the great debate. That is why I would also like to thank you for the positive reception of the draft law here today. On the one hand, as Minister for Taxation, I want us to have as simple tax rules as possible at all, but when we sometimes have more complicated tax rules, it is because I too, as the tax minister, want it to be difficult to cheat and defraud, and sometimes these two considerations unfortunately upset each other badly. We can make simple rules, but then there are those who use them to cheat and swindle, and to avoid this it is sometimes more complicated than it really should be, and it reflects this proposal too. The draft law contains three elements which most rapporteurs have mentioned. There is the VAT area where we implement simplifications and clarification of VAT rules and actually make it easier for businesses to manage. Those are the rules that are demanded by the business community. In addition, the proposal will mean greater legal certainty for companies in the proposals for consigning camps and chain trading, which provide a uniform way of dealing with these cross-border transactions within the European Union. I am pleased that we can make it difficult for those who are trying to circumvent the VAT rules, and this is done by requiring the buyer to always disclose his VAT number to the seller, so that the seller can sell VAT-free to the buyer outside the EU's borders. In this respect, I note that the proposal will not impose new burdens on ordinary, fair businesses, since they will have to give their VAT number in advance. So that's great. Then there is the reimbursement of excise duties to organisations and, as a number of rapporteurs have also mentioned, we allow certain organisations and associations to recover taxes on chocolate, coffee and ice when they distribute the goods free of charge, for example. in connection with Christmas aid or for use in shelter. I fully agree with the rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance, Mr President. Joachim B. Olsen, in that the best and easiest was if we could abolish the chocolate tax, but it takes 2 billion. kr., which I do not have, and which a majority in the Folketing is at least at this stage not ready to use in this area. That is why we have to try to patch up the problems created by a 1922 chocolate tax, and we do so with the proposal by allowing organisations to recover the levies. The proposal will give companies that produce or sell the products covered a greater incentive to donate or sell the goods cheaper to the organisations instead of discarding them. At the same time, when the levy is reimbursed, the organisations will receive more funds for their humanitarian work. I welcome this, because this government and my own party want us to make an effort to reduce food waste and to take account of the organisations that help those who need it. Then the alternative rapporteur asks very reasonably how it can be that some of the consultation parties are not satisfied with it. There are, among other things: a hearing answer from Coop saying that it will not mean such a change for them. I have also heard that some of these consumer goods organizations would like them to be the ones to be reimbursed. You could choose that, but there you run into the consideration I outlined in the first place, and that was that if you do, there might be some who would abide by the rules, and that is the big supermarkets, but you cannot just give permission to the big supermarket chains, because it will apply to everyone, and I also believe that there are some smaller merchants, people who sell candy, and others who will use the rules to cheat and cheat. That is why we have chosen a model in which the charities can be reimbursed. And it has to be said that those who have to give goods to these organisations have an interest in pushing this sustainability agenda. So it is true that in isolation it will be a better business for Coop or for Salling Group, for Netto or for Irma, if they could be reimbursed the fees, but it must be the second best thing if they can make sure that the ones they give the goods to, Danish People's Aid, people who distribute surplus food, can get refunded these taxes and then spend the money for their work. That is why I would like to call on the organisations to enter into formalized cooperation with large Danish supermarket chains, and I think they should be taken at their word when they say that they will do something to deal with food waste, i.e. Salling Group, Coop and the others, and say: Do these co-operations and live with the money going to support some of these organizations. If they think they want to reduce food waste, then the way is now paved for them to do so, and I hope they will. The bill also translates parts of the agreement on strengthened regulatory compliance in the motor sector, in which all parties of the Folketing are involved, and the agreement implements a number of initiatives aimed at increasing compliance with the rules and reducing the risk of cheating in the motor sector. There again the alternative rapporteur asks quite rightly: why has this been put into a legislative proposal with all sorts of other things? This is because, as I think the rapporteur of the Left also mentioned, we have a great deal of legislation in the field of taxation. And why do we have that? We do, because Paragraph 46 of the Constitution says "and it is wise to do so, because it is a protection for citizens that if I am to levy a tax or a tax as a tax minister, it must be provided by law. That means something between 10% and 20%. of all tax legislation ends up in the Folketing, so we have to put some of the things together a little, otherwise we would have a huge number of legislative proposals in this area. In exchange for that, I have the policy of tax minister that if anyone wants a bill to be divided, they can have it divided. So if anyone can't vote for part of this bill and therefore wants it to be shared, then I and the government will support it. That's the reason for it. It is therefore a matter of efficiency if one wishes to do so. With the proposal in the motor sector, we will then provide better opportunities for tax administration to carry out more thorough checks on requests for payment of export refunds before the reimbursement is paid, and this is a step in the right direction in order to counteract the abuse of the system of payment of export refunds. Again, it is a good example that initially a unanimous Parliament adopted some very simple rules that were effective to administer, for the export of cars abroad, but there are some who have cheated, there are some who have cheated, there are some who have not complied with the rules. Was it the majority? No, I don't think it was. Was it a minority? Yeah. Was it a larger minority than I expected? I have to say it is. But there are some who have cheated and cheated, and they then destroy it for all those who are upright, so we are now making rules that make it less flexible and more bureaucratic and more expensive to export a car, but it is therefore necessary to prevent people from cheating and scamming, and I think we have made a really fine deal that allows vehicles to continue to be exported, and this is in a way that reduces the possibility of cheating and fraud. But it also complicates things and the administration of it. In those words, as I said, I also hope that, at the second and third readings, there will be support for the proposal and that we will be able to have the proposal dealt with before there is a parliamentary election at some point.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423150440	Thank you for that to the tax minister. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423150454	The debate is open. Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423150513	Thank you. In many contexts, there may be good political reasoning in promoting equality between mother and father, and probably in this case too, but in the Social Democratic Party we have a desire to discuss with the Minister, before proceeding with the negotiations on this bill, the part that concerns the divorced families again. Like the rest of the circle around the divorce agreement, we have no desire to reactivate any potential conflicts between parties that have determined their entire lives, their entire divorce life, their entire economy under the applicable rules. We want us to find a proper solution to this problem together, and we therefore call on the Minister to sit around a table and resolve it before the third reading. There is no reason why from here we are beginning to create insecurity about the economy of families who are already divorced and have found friendly solutions and organized their economy. So the Social Democrats would very much like us to start such a discussion before the third reading of this proposal. We hope that this will be seen with the approval of the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423150632	Thank you to Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen and we move on to Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423150641	This bill is, after all, the implementation of an agreement by all parties, so I can already say that we support the bill. It is a question, as has already been mentioned, of parents who both have custody in the future sharing child and youth benefits. Today, it is the case that it is being sent to the mother, but because of equality it is now chosen to say that it is being sent equally to the two, among other things. also in cases where you may have a scheme where the child is 7 days at one parent and 7 days at the other parent. This is where children's and young people's benefits are shared in the future, and we think that is quite reasonable. We can also say from this that if there are any parties in the contract circle who want to discuss some things that could be implemented differently, we are, of course, willing to look at it in the contract circle if needed. However, as a starting point, we can at least support this bill, as it is the implementation of an agreement that we are part of.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423150741	Thank you, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær. And we move on to Mrs Britt Baker, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423150750	Thank you. As the previous rapporteurs have mentioned, the bill here means that child and youth benefits, also known as the children's check, must be shared as a starting point between parents, whether they live together or not. At the same time, parents are given more freedom to choose whether to pay out only to one of the parents. However, it requires the consent of both parents whose payments are to be made to one. In the Left, we believe that it allows parents to put together the family patterns that they consider most appropriate and that, at the same time, it ensures a safety net if parents cannot agree. Then there is also something relating to the green cheque, which consists of an amount for all persons aged 18 years and an additional green check for children for up to two children per year. family. The supplementary green check must also be shared between parents as a result of this bill. In most cases, the benefit is paid to the mother. It's been like this for decades, but this bill is gonna change. The payment must no longer be made automatically to the mother; in future it must be ensured that both the mother and the danger are taken on an equal footing. The Left is backing the implementation of this bill. And the law will thus reflect a full gender equality in the subsidies granted and in the deductions from the public sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423150928	Thank you to Mrs Britt Baker. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423150936	Thank you. As other rapporteurs have said, this bill means that parents, authority holders who have joint custody, will each have to receive half of the child's check in future, and this is, of course, about equality. This is part of an agreement in which all parties in the Folketing are involved, including the Enhedslisten, and we naturally support the principle that the new payment rules must ensure that parents are treated equally in relation to the payment of child and youth benefits. Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen referred to the possibility of discussing in the context of this legal procedure what could possibly be done for those families who, as it were, are already divorced and have made some agreements on the basis of the existing rules, and we would also like to discuss this. On the whole, I think it is a perfectly natural thing to turn things over again, after having made agreements and been sitting over in the ministry with the ministry's officials, because when things land over in the Folketing and there comes a legal procedure and also more public debate about it, it may give rise to a return to some of the things that are part of the agreement. If there are parties that want to discuss things when things land in the Chamber, we think, in principle, that it is democratically right to take a turn for it. So, of course, we would like to support that too. I would say that in the field of taxation, there is indeed a tradition that when we make an agreement, we say that we naturally have reservations, because when the legal procedure and the three readings come over here in the Parliamentary Chamber, things can come up that make some changes, and there we have also seen that amendments have been tabled to agreements which have, as such, been concluded in the Ministry of Taxation, and I think that is actually a good way to work on that. I can say that, in relation to the work of the committee, I myself am also going to ask some questions about the technique in relation to the relatively small amount of money that is actually being moved around, when the rules are now being changed so that the income escalation takes place on the basis of the individual income ratio of the beneficiaries. Among other things, there were: at Easter, an article in Berlingske about some slightly distinctive family types, but it showed examples of some families where one parent, and that would typically be the man, has a very high income, while the other parent, and that would typically be the woman, has a lower income. So there is a big difference between what one earns and what the other earns, but here, in fact, there are some of the families with high incomes who will get a tax relief out of it, while there will be others who will get the opposite. There is at least something technical that I would like to clarify, but there will then be time and opportunity, as usual, for the work of the committee. So it's gonna be okay just to get some numbers of what we're talking about and get an overview of it, and then we're gonna have to look at what the answers say. But basically, as I said, we are very pleased with the agreement that we are in, and that is why we are naturally in favour of the draft law. But if there is something that may have to be done, that is the possibility that we have in connection with agreements being transposed into law here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423151305	Thank you, sir. Rune Lund. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Laura Lindahl, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423151319	When I stand here on Parliament's platform and deal with proposals in the field of equality, I am typically frustrated, and I am, because it is typically a proposal that is about restricting the freedom of the Danes in order to create more equality. It can either be a proposal for earmarked maternity leave or a proposal for quotas for women on board boards, and it makes me insanely frustrated when it comes to depriving families of their freedom, depriving families of the right to adapt as they like, or forcing companies to look at gender rather than qualifications, because it has nothing to do with equality. Today I'm not frustrated. Today I am glad, because this proposal will actually increase equality, by per. definition puts Mom and Dad just by sharing the children's check equally between parents and not just, as has been done so far, send the check to Mom. If the parents agree that the check should be sent to Mom, then you can deal with it, and then you can have it that way. But it must be equality that you per. definition makes parents equal. That's good, and I'm particularly happy because the Liberal Alliance has been pushing for this. That was our wish in the negotiations, and that is why I am, of course, pleased that we can now put it into practice.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423151446	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and we move on to Mr. Julius Graakjær Grantzau, Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423151454	Thank you. As a starting point, I am also pleased with this proposal, like the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, which promotes equality. At the same time, it has been pointed out, also by the Social Democrats, that there may be some elements in relation to a transitional period that we need to look at, and I think it is also important, on behalf of the Alternative, that we have done so, that we look at whether it is handled properly and that no new conflicts are created in connection with the transition to this method of payment. But overall, it is an agreement that all the parties have been involved in, which should create better conditions for this to be better dealt with in this whole matter of association and the financial issue of divorce cases in the future. So I'm thinking that forward-looking is something that will be taken care of in the process that hopefully will run much better in the future, but what about those who get caught in between? Because when we talk about gender equality and, in this case, the mother and the father or the two parents, depending on the family pattern, I think we should also remember to talk about equality with children. I mean, it's no use for us to forget the children in this for the sake of a financial distribution of some money. So now that it is equality that is on the agenda of this proposal, I think we should remember to bring children up on an equal footing with adults and see if there are some points that are just being pointed out in the consultation answers that need to be done a little differently, and I hope that we can all agree to do that in a very good way. However, there are no further comments and we support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423151658	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and we move on to Mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423151704	In the Radical Left, we also agree that child and youth benefits must be shared equally between parents when it comes to the future. That is what we are discussing here today, because in the Radical Left we also believe, and do we believe, that what we have agreed is that the sharing of child and youth benefits between parents should take place in the context of new divorces, according to the new divorce law that we have adopted. This bill suggests that children's and young people's benefits should also be shared by the parents who have been divorced in the years that have passed. We cannot support this and we would very much like to support an amendment to this bill. The reason why we do not want to share child and young people's benefits with regard to the couples who have been divorced is the fact that a number of rapporteurs have mentioned this in a number of critical consultation responses from the organisations that are fighting for the best interests of the children, especially in these divorce cases. For when a couple who have found a way to live with how to distribute this child and youth benefit are suddenly about to discuss with each other again, about how to distribute this money, we risk that a lot of children end up in some very conflicting families and thus have to get ripped up in all the wounds that were when their parents got divorced. We see no reason for this, and we think it is very unfortunate if we in the Danish Parliament are involved in making a law that unnecessarily puts some families into some conflicts and brings some children out for some unhappy months, when parents are going to discuss how to distribute this money. So we would like to support this bill if the sharing of child and youth benefits applies forward-looking rather than backwards for those who have been divorced.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423151904	Thank you, sir. Andreas Steenberg. And we move on to Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423151913	It is probably not most of the tax rapporteurs who have negotiated this, but rather our colleagues who are children's or social rapporteurs. But it is a really important change that we also have equality in this area, and I think we are all happy about that. Some of the problem is, after all, about something that the Socialist rapporteur also presented: what is to be done backwards: how can we set it up so that we do not actually bring a lot of people who have actually adapted themselves into a new conflict? That's one. We support the SF's efforts to clarify this. The second is about the effect of it. I have tried to see if I could read from the comments what it has to do with distributional effects to change it. Well enough, in the comments to the bill, there are examples of what it will mean if Mom and Dad both have high incomes. I think my colleague, too, sir. Rune Lund mentioned whether this in fact, whatever it is not intended, will be a de facto tax relief for some couples and a tax increase for other couples, depending on how the parents' finances are screwed up. That is why I would also like to hear from the tax minister whether we cannot have family-type models that we so often get in the tax field. We usually get a four-piece at least when there's a play that can outline how this new change affects different family types. Because it's a lot of people that it affects. We can see that today, for the most part, it is women who receive child and young people's benefits and, of course, we support the intention, because we are in the agreement, that it should go equally to mother and father. However, as I said, one simply cannot see from the comments on the draft law how it more specifically affects parents' finances.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423152154	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423152200	Thank you. After all, the aim of the draft law here is to implement the broad agreement that we have made, which is to give families better opportunities to adapt individually to the distribution of children's and young people's benefits. This is an agreement that we in Conservatives are also included in, and of course we support it. The current rules for the distribution of child and young people's benefits are obsolete and have long needed a review, and I am also very pleased that it is a unanimous Parliament which is behind the agreement that we are now putting into effect, namely where we are modernising the rules. This will ensure a higher level of gender equality, but it will also allow you to share the benefit between you depending on how you want to fit into a family. In the Conservative People's Party, we welcome the fact that the bill and the agreement here give families greater freedom and that we have a system that more reflects family patterns today. So we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423152306	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and then it is the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423152312	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank you for the positive comments that have been made about the proposal for the equalisation of what is, in everyday terms, called the children's check. This is the last part of the implementation of the agreement on a family law system, which is an agreement reached in the area of the Minister for Children and Social Affairs. The draft law is first and foremost important in terms of equality between parents, and then the rules that apply today do not reflect the reality we find ourselves in and the family patterns that exist today. According to the rules in force, in the vast majority of cases the child's check is paid to the mother. This has been the case since 1987, when child benefit, as it was then called, was introduced. The rules have therefore rightly been criticised from the point of view of equality. If you are wondering why it is I, as the tax minister, who is dealing with the bill here today about something where you pay out a benefit that is not usually what we do as tax rapporteurs; we are making legislation to claim money, not paying them out as benefits; it is because before 1987 there was a deduction in this area. That is why, for historical reasons, it has been in the hands of the tax minister. This also gives rise to some of the problems raised here today by the rapporteurs. Perhaps, therefore, we should consider to some extent where such an area is situated here in a region of the region. It's not my decision as tax minister. It is the decision of the Prime Minister who is present at all times and, ultimately, of the majesty, what the distribution of resources is like. However, when some of the points mentioned by the rapporteurs, which I would like to mention, arise, this is due to the fact that an agreement has been reached in one ministerial area, which will then be implemented by means of a legislative proposal in another ministerial area, in this case the Ministry of Taxation. All parties in the Folketing have agreed that it is time to introduce more modern rules that take into account that there are many different ways of adapting as a family. On the one hand, we have agreed that we should move away from the automatic payout to the mother, and on the other hand there should be more choice of who the payout is to be made to. That is what we are achieving with the legislative proposal that has now been put forward. The children's cheques must be shared between parents, whether they live together or not, but at the same time, if they agree, parents will have the opportunity to choose to pay the children's cheques to one parent. It will typically be in situations where the cost is with one parent. Then it is fair that the children's check is also paid to the parent who has the cost. But that is something that can be agreed upon as parents. If parents cannot agree, and this happens occasionally, then one parent may request payment of the whole benefit if it can be demonstrated that the child must be at least 9 out of 14 days in the case of the parent. In this way, parents can adapt more as they wish, but at the same time take into account cases where no agreement can be reached. But the easiest thing, not least for the sake of the child, is for parents to sit down and agree on what association should be like when they break up. It is not intended and not appropriate for anyone, especially for children, in my political opinion, that this issue should end up in a state system. It would be easier if we could bow to each other and reach agreement. You can't do that in every case. That's the reality. But it would be nice if this were possible to a greater extent. It is therefore after the bill, as we propose, only in cases where the child lives equally or almost equally with both parents and the parents cannot agree that the payment must be made to the one, that equality cannot be waived. the cases in which it is precisely important to equate parents. After all, there have been some comments from the rapporteurs and also some written correspondence prior to the debate here today between a number of rapporteurs in the field of social affairs and children and myself as tax minister on whether already divided families should be included in equal opportunities. I mean, do there have to be some transitional rules, or shouldn't there? I would like to give the assurance that we will have to sit down and talk about it. My starting point is that what is in the text of the agreement is the way it should be and no transitional rules have been agreed or anything else. This has been discussed during the negotiations, but as has been explained, also by the notes sent over from the Treasury, there are some problems in it. And, above all, there are some expenses which must then be lifted. There may also be some political justification in this. On the other hand, there may be some conflict in the fact that you have established association and then have to decide how the children's check should be distributed. It can, of course, rip up some old conflicts. I would like to acknowledge that too. But my starting point as a tax minister is always, and that is where I share Mr Enhedslisten's interpretation of what a legislative process should be like, that you make a political agreement, and that is where you agree things. Then you send legislative proposals in consultation with rapporteurs and others, and once they have approved it, then further out to the external consultation parties, and if any of the parties to the agreement wants us to sit around a meeting table and talk about whether we should change the agreement, change the bill, then we will. At any rate, I would like to make a commitment to invite the rapporteurs, and both the equality rapporteurs, the child and social rapporteurs and the tax rapporteurs are welcome to the meeting. It will be a very big meeting, we might need to book a whole meeting room. But the parties are welcome to send whatever they wish, and then we will have a meeting. Then we'll talk about whether we can figure this out, and if there's a bill, how we'll pick up the bill for it. Therefore, the rapporteurs can expect an invitation to such a meeting. Then there are the issues of income escalation and other issues raised by Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the Socialist People's Party. I'd like to send over a variety of family types. I would just like to say about the discussion that has been going on over Easter, including in the public domain, that it is unreasonable for someone and for others that these are very, very few cases. Of course, a situation could arise where a person earns DKK 750,000. and the other person earns 0 DKK, but typically it will be different. But I'd really, really, really like to make those family-type examples. These changes do not shift enormously around revenue or distribution or anything else, but of course there are some changes when you change such a large-scale benefit as the children's cheque, which is a two-digit billion sum a year, is indeed. But today there are also problems with the rules. Today it is a clear disadvantage if it is the woman who earns the most, and that is not fair either. Therefore, what we are proposing is that there should also be a change in income escalation, so that escalation takes place on the basis of the individual recipient's income. So it is true that there may be things in the bill here, but at least there are also things with the rules that apply today. However, in relation to the issues of transitional rules and other matters, we take a meeting, and then we sit down and discuss it. With those words, as with the previous proposal, I hope that we will have the meeting and, hopefully, before a parliamentary elections, the bill will be adopted, which will be due to enter into force on 1 January 2020. But no one in this Chamber is lording over that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423153114	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423153126	The debate is open. Sir. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423153142	Then we came up with the bill on sales pledges and other elements that I shall discuss, but first that which is a key element of the bill. This is reflected in the Finance Act and also financed there, but before it was agreed in the drought package agreed this summer and also in the Social Democratic Party's consideration of the possibility of introducing such a salesman's letter. The main point is that it should benefit young farmers who have to take over a farm. In concrete terms, the proposal is that up to 10%. the purchase price can be re-used in the commercial property sold. In practice, it will be a postponement of taxation, which is to take place today in the same year as trade, which could be distributed over a period of up to ten years. According to the proposal, the amount of tax which may be deferred may not exceed 10%. of the selling price. It provides a cost to the state of lasting 15 million. kr. and up to 70 million. kr. in the early years. In the discussions on the drought package, we have supported the examination of this proposal and, in principle, we also agreed to implement it, it could be delimited and implemented in the right way. As farms grow, it has also become a major financial burden and risk to take over a farm. Here the process is in some cases made a little easier, typically in the case of generational change. And it is good to contribute to the implementation of the generational shifts, we think, in other words, that the Folketing does so. But we think that the process is rather strange, because it was actually agreed in the context of the agreement on the drought package that a group of experts should be set up and that this proposal should be examined, as well as others relating to the economic foundations, the economic conditions of agriculture. Now a proposal of this kind ends up at the eleventh hour before there will soon be parliamentary elections, and therefore not on the basis of the work of a group of experts. That is why, in principle, it is still right, but it is simply not the way it was agreed to do so. And we will then try to go a little further into whether the things we would have examined are right, i.e. whether the system is properly defined. Had we had a dialogue on this rather than just being put forward here, we would probably have gone into whether we could find other sources of funding for it, rather than just having been taken off the negotiating reserves of the Finance Act, as we think there are so many other things that it is also important to spend the money on. But in principle we support it, and then we have to go a little further, now that there was no dialogue on the proposal that had otherwise been agreed. Another element is the increase in the tax-free base allowance for benefits to persons from approved funds, etc. It is a tax-free bottom allowance that has not been increased or regulated since the year 2000, and it is then proposed to bring it up to the level where it would have been if it had thus been regulated. The proposal does not have any significant revenue implications, as is apparent from the observations made by the draft law. We would like to try, in committee, to get some examples of what benefits are being given today in this area, so that we can see what these are actually for some points which allow for a higher tax-free base deduction. Another positive element, we think, is that, in order to comply with the work and agreements we have in the OECD in relation to reporting on external financial accounts, Denmark extends the period for keeping the basis for making such reports. As I can see, in practice it is 1 year and 4 months more that are added to keep this base. And that is, we think, excellent. You can just look at the cases that are running right now, on top of the Panama papers and the money laundering cases, which are unfortunately in the Danish banking sector, that it is beneficial that this foundation exists. One last element I have to reach is the extension of the seaman's allowance to seafarers working on board marine survey and research ships. By implementing this proposal, the problem is solved that the marine survey ship we have in Denmark, Dana, had not been included in the deduction or in the DIS scheme in the first place. And this is a matter that I think it is worth crediting to my colleague Bjarne Laustsen for having worked actively with affected sailors and where a dialogue with the tax minister has borne fruit. I can also see that my good colleague has actually come to the Chamber to attend the happy moment when the bill is being discussed, and there is reason to do so. I think this is an example of how we can pursue a case and have a dialogue with a minister and now implement such a proposal so that these seamen are covered by the seaman's allowance for their own benefit, but also for the competitiveness of the ship and the activity involved. With those comments, I would like to give the bill my positive statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423153650	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423153700	This bill, too, is, after all, a coinciding of a number of things, and the first one I would like to mention is the implementation of part of the financial regulation. It is the part about salesman's pledges, which is a wish that the Danish People's Party had for the financial negotiations, so I am very pleased that we can now stand here and deal with it first, even if we may not be able to have the third reading, depending on when the election comes. The reason why we wanted it here, and the reason why it is needed, is that there are a number of farmers who are up in the years and it can be difficult for young new farmers to buy a farm because it is difficult to finance it. There are salesman's letters coming into the picture as part of the solution, because with this you can get 10 per cent funding. of the value of agriculture with a salesman's letter. In other words, this means that the seller can postpone taxation for 10 years, and we think that is a good way to give a helping hand so that we can make some generations of changes in agriculture. Indeed, there are also a lot of good positive effects in what is worth mentioning, because when more younger farmers are now given the opportunity to take over a farm, it also typically means that productivity increases because young new farmers typically want to invest something more in their farms than people who may be leaving the industry will. An example might be that you stand and are an older couple just with a regular parcel house. Then you don't just build a new kitchen or put on a new roof, because you know you're gonna have to get rid of the house soon. But the new young families that come in typically invest in their new house. The same thing will also happen here with agriculture: you will get a higher productivity because young new farmers come up with new ideas and want to invest in order to get a modern farm back. But there is another important element in this, which may not normally be considered, and that is that it is also good rural policy. For when more young families come into agriculture, there are typically also some children with children who will support the local school in the village, children who will go to the day institutions. However, this will also mean that more resourceful families will be able to enter rural areas, which may be able to participate in association, board work or other things. So there are also a lot of good side effects in this, which you don't immediately think about when you see that you can get a salesman's letter that can help you get a generation change on a farm. Then there is one thing I would like to mention that is not in the proposal, but that we in the Danish People's Party will be working on in the future, and that is that there is the same challenge with fishing vessels, where it can also be difficult to make a generational change. But it's not part of this game, because it's a different model you have to make. However, I would also like to point out here from the platform that we in the Danish People's Party will be working towards a future-oriented introduction of the possibility of using sales promotion letters in the fishing industry, so that we can also have a number of generational changes that will make it easier, at least for younger fishermen, to enter the market. Then there are a number of other elements in the bill, and I will not mention them all, but there are among others. This is also what was also mentioned by the previous rapporteur, with an increased seaman's allowance for seafarers on research ships and marine survey ships. We think it is reasonable to have a solution to this problem. One last element I would like to mention is that of the Commission. this with a different time of impact for special ships. We have, of course, made provision in the business and growth package in the past for special ships to be able to come under the DIS scheme and get lower tonnage tax. And this seems quite harmless, but I am a little worried about what this has to do with the annex sent by the tax minister to the Tax Committee, which says that in order to get special ships under the DIS scheme, we need to change the whole DIS scheme. Then we must remove what is called the flag requirement. It is the case today that we have made a scheme to keep Danish ships in Denmark, which means that shipping companies have many ships in Denmark. It is said that employees can be paid tax-free, against the fact that the ships then pay tonnage tax in Denmark. However, what has been proposed in order to get the special ships under the DIS scheme is that the whole scheme should be changed, which means that Danish employees can work on any ship around the EU without paying tax in Denmark. Shipowners may choose to have ships, for example: in Cyprus with employees from Denmark, and also from another country, but without paying tonnage tax in Denmark. So I understand that it's a good idea from the employee side. They can work wherever they want and not pay taxes in Denmark. I also understand that it is a positive element from the point of view of shipping companies that they can flag their ships wherever they want. But I'm just not sure it's a good idea for Denmark. This is not exactly what we are debating here in the draft law today, but I will certainly try the committee procedure if we get this far before there is a choice to drill out what it means, if you say yes to it here, in relation to the major general change in the DIS scheme that would mean if you choose to bring the special ships along. For that is certainly a change that we are a little concerned about in the Danish People's Party. Those were the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423154141	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, which is why we move on to Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423154147	Thank you for the floor. We may have to start time over. It says I have four seconds left. First Vice-President I'll give you five more minutes. That's it. ) Thank you. As the two previous rapporteurs have already said, this bill translates into different parts of an agreement. It's a bit of a pile of weddings once again. I would like to start by focusing on the part that is about selling pledges for agriculture. After all, we have a challenge with many of the farms in Denmark having some very ageing owners. We need a change of generation in agriculture, also in order to ensure the future of agriculture. One of the ways to deal with this is this salesman's paper model. It is true that this was one of the things that had to be examined in the analysis which is part of the drought package, which was necessary on top of the drought that was last summer. But that is not the only thing that is being examined in this context. It is a more general study, and it does not mean that the other politicians who are part of the agreement will be able to do other things in this area. It is perfectly normal to build on existing agreements, and this does not prevent us from examining the general conditions for agriculture. So I think that is fully in line with it. At least we think it's really positive that we get a look at these selling pawns so that it's more possible to get these generations changed in the farms. And it is an agreement that I am very pleased that we have made together with the Danish People's Party in connection with the Finance Act. Then there is the part about the extension of the seaman's allowance, so it is also now the case of seafarers on board research and marine survey ships. This has not been the case in the past; it has applied to all sorts of ships other than exactly them, but there is also fierce competition in research and marine exploration ships, and therefore it is only natural that these rules apply to them too. Then there are a number of other minor proposals, but the other rapporteurs have mentioned them. Basically, I can say that the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423154354	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423154412	This bill is, of course, a typical tax bill, it contains several different elements... a mixed bag of candy. The first concerns proposals for the introduction of a mortgage bond model. After all, it is part of the 2019 Finance Act agreement that has been concluded between the government and the Danish People's Party, and then to create better opportunities for generational change for young farmers will then be introduced this pawn letter model when selling among others. agriculture, where up to 10%. the purchase price can be re-used in the commercial property sold. The scheme proposed means that the seller of a commercial property will be allowed to postpone the tax on all or part of the property margin, up to 10%. in the case of the sale, where the sale is issued with a pledge letter. The tax can therefore be paid over a period of up to 10 years instead of according to the general rules when the property is abandoned. This proposal costs something. The price is 90 million. kr. in 2020 in immediate effect and 70 million; kr. after retreat and behavior. It is the assessment in the bill that the amount will then have fallen to around 45 million. kr. and 35 million. kr. after retreat and behavior. We have the feeling on the part of the Enhedslisten that action should be taken for young farmers, but if the state really wanted to do something, the state could, for example, do something about it. grant State-guaranteed loans to young farmers. We do not think that the grip you make here, that is to say that you make a tax relief for the seller, is reasonable. We want other funds to be used, and that is part of the legislative proposal that we cannot support. Then there is an increase in the tax-free base allowance for benefits from social funds. It is proposed that the tax-free base allowance for benefits to persons from approved funds, etc., the purpose of which is to support social or disease-fighting work, be increased from the current DKK 10,000. for DKK 14,600. It is a proposal with a very limited revenue effect and it is a proposal that we can support in a way. Then there is the change in the retention period for the basis for reporting financial accounts, where we bring the real basis into line with international standards, and that is something that we can also support. Then there is the extension of the seaman's allowance to seafarers on research and marine survey ships. It is proposed to extend the seafarers' allowance to seafarers working on board research and marine survey ships, so that these seamen are treated as seamen working on traditional cargo vessels. It was the case that, in 2011, when it was intended to extend the access of shipping companies to use foreign masters in DIS, it was, so to speak, part of the payment to professional organisations that an extended seaman's allowance was introduced. Therefore, a seaman's allowance of DKK 56,000 was made if you sailed near sea, and DKK 105,000 if you sailed long sea. At the time of 2011, certain types of ships were exempted from deduction, including stone-fishermen, research ships and offshore vessels, and this proposal then means that these seafarers' allowances will be extended to include some of the ships which were left out in 2011. We really think this is a fine proposal because it is a more practical implementation of the same rules for all seafarers without special requirements as to what work the ship is doing. So we are in fact in favour of all parts of the elements, except for the proposal to introduce a mortgage model, and we will then ask for this to be split into a separate legislative proposal so that we can vote in favour of the parts of the bill that we support.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423154830	Thank you, sir. Rune Lund. There are no brief comments, and that is why we move on to Mr Beazley's report. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423154839	Thank you. I will be brief: we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423154848	Yes, it was short, and that's why we've come to sir. Julius Graakjær Grantzau, the alternative that comes into the Chamber now. It went so fast with the last one. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423154919	I did not have time to hear what the rapporteur had to say. I assume you guys supported the bill. This is again a legislative proposal which contains a number of elements and which has also been examined by a number of rapporteurs. So I will actually vote in favour of the choir that Rune Lund, the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, initiated, to divide the bill so that the first part, which deals with a selling mortgage model in connection with the generational change in agriculture, is separated. And that is why I agree with some of what the rapporteur on the Enhedslist said. In the alternative, we don't necessarily see this model as the best way to help agriculture. So, with our policy in the alternative, we want far more agriculture and also less agriculture than we have today, and we have some solutions for how we can help young people financially to take over agriculture. And that's where I think this is going a little off, compared to who we're helping. We would very much like to help many more people to get agriculture and not just drive the economic model that is running today, and that is where I think this is a little patching up the heavy debts that exist and actually only sustains the heavy debt burden rather than taking care of it. So I think we should talk about proposals on how to help agriculture out of this debt and to create more smaller farms. Then there is the proposal to increase the tax-free bottom allowance for benefits to persons from approved funds who support social or disease-fighting work. We can also support that from the point of view of the alternative. There is something about alignment in relation to OECD rules, in relation to how long we keep reporting on financial accounts, which we can also support. With regard to the seaman's allowance, it makes good sense, as has also been mentioned, to make it equal, that is to say to include more types of ships. However, I think it was a relevant remark from the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party on how this could affect the general payment of tax in relation to where the ships are registered. So I will look forward to what comes of the answer to it. The last part of the draft law can also be supported by the alternative. I have no further comments to make. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423155215	Thank you to Julius Graakjær Grantzau from the Alternative. Then we move on to Mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423155223	In the Radical Left, we can also support all the parts of this bill. The large part of the bill, at least if you see it in dollars and cents, is this model of selling pawns, which should make it easier to change generations, especially in agriculture, and that is certainly needed. Because we can see that there is a problem with farmers getting older and older and that it is difficult for new, younger farmers to come in and buy a farm. We have proposed it ourselves, and it is also a model proposed by a number of organisations, which is why it is part of the government and the Danish People's Party's Financial Law Agreement that we can support, and we would therefore also like to support the bill when it is adopted here in a few weeks' time. We can also support the extension of the DIS scheme, in other words the scheme in which sailors do not pay so much tax, to special ships operating in particular in the construction of offshore wind turbines. It is also a proposal that we have had ourselves and which we would also like to support. The last major element of the draft law is that the relief made by the taxation of ships, the so-called tonnage tax, is moved one year backwards in time, so it applies earlier. We can support that too. So, overall, what's in this bill is good radical policy. We have proposed it ourselves, and that is why we would very much like to vote in favour of the proposals at the third reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423155405	Thank you, sir. Andreas Steenberg. There are no brief comments and we move on to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423155415	For many years we have been discussing the problems of at least parts of Danish agriculture: a gigantic debt which affects large parts of the industry, which is so much affecting young farmers who want to enter, and a number of farmers who are either on the edge of bankruptcy or who can be greatly affected by it by drought, by sanctions against Russia, at milk prices or other. So we actually have an agriculture where a large proportion of them in the industry are very exposed to external influences. After all, it is not part of this bill to discuss what type of agriculture we would like to have in the future, but in addition to the fact that of course we would like to have a more sustainable agriculture, we would also like to have a more economically sustainable agriculture in Denmark. That is also why we sometimes discuss land distribution and whether we may have to buy up land, land funds and much else, because we do not have, at least not in general, economically sustainable agriculture. That is why it was also a little long to say that when we spend money on our agriculture and we do that both through agricultural subsidies, but we also do that with various aid packages, at the latest on last summer's drought, we must also use the money to promote the type of agriculture that we would like to have in the future. I started out by saying that it is really difficult for many young farmers to get started, also because we have got some quite large farms that are very expensive to get into, and that is why we from the SF would also like to make it easier both with the change of generation and for young people to get started. Because we want us to have a sustainable agriculture in Denmark, both in relation to nature and also economically. We've been a little lonely about the selling mortgage model the government is proposing in this bill. I am not going to reject it today, because we would still like to see whether we could possibly make an amendment. For the problem in this is quite real, but we also want to use some of the economic mechanisms we have to promote an agriculture that is also sustainable in the long term. So all this is just to say that we would like to take up the committee procedure, how we can help both in terms of generational change, but also by spending the money in the smartest way in terms of getting a future more sustainable agriculture. My colleagues have examined very well the other four elements of the bill, for which the SF is in favour, so the first point about the Pawnee Letter is what will decide whether we can vote for it, and we also support the division of the bill if it can allow other parties to vote for it. However, as I said, we will bring a number of amendments to the market in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423155749	Thank you to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. There are no brief comments, and that is why we are moving on to Mr Beazley's report. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423155756	Thank you. The draft law here contains, as several of the previous rapporteurs have mentioned, a number of different elements, first and foremost the model of agricultural salesmanship. Then there is also an increase in the tax-free base allowance for benefits from social funds and an extension of the seafaring allowance scheme, and we think that all the elements are really good. In many areas of agriculture, it has been very difficult to complete a generational change, which is why it is also a welcome hand-out with this proposed pawn letter model. Nowadays it is the case that you can make such a transfer and then let the buyer pay over a number of years, but the problem is that you will be taxed at the time of the transfer, that is, before you have actually received the money, and there is something unreasonable and inappropriate in that. That is why I think it is very good that, in the context of the financial law agreement, we found some money to change it. We are also very pleased that we will have the extension of the seaman's allowance scheme, so this research and marine survey ship will also be included. After all, we have also extended the DIS scheme in the past, so we got the offshore sector more involved. It is also very good for blue Denmark, so we can maintain the position we have as one of the world's leading maritime nations. There was a little discussion earlier on about opening up the DIS scheme so that it would include other ships in the EU. I'm not so skeptical about that. Because there is also the possibility that the Danish competences will be better used and indeed the opportunity will also be given to get Danish sailors on foreign-flagged ships, so that they will acquire some skills that can be used in Denmark, but also that Danish shipping companies can exchange their crews between the ships they have on the Danish flag and the ships they do not have on the Danish flag. What I think is most important is that we maintain that the Danish register of ships must be an attractive register of ships, and that is what it is today. It is the fastest growing in the world, and it has been since we removed this registration fee in connection with the business and entrepreneurial package. We have a very good shipping register, which is why I am also sure that we will be able to compete if it is opened up, but it therefore offers an opportunity for flexibility and thus also an opportunity to develop more good skills among our Danish seafarers, but in fact also a better opportunity to use the resources of the shipping companies. However, with these comments, I would just like to say that we naturally support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423160042	Thank you, sir. Anders Johansson. Then we've reached the tax minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423160048	I would like to thank you for the largely positive reception of the draft law. Some very reasonable questions have been asked along the way, and I will try to answer some of them here in my ministerial speech. After all, the proposal, which we have discussed, contains changes in a number of different areas. These are, if you ask me, sensible changes that will be of benefit to a broad circle of people. The big change is that after many years we have agreed in the Finance Act, among other things. at the request of the Danish People's Party, which has pressed for us to find money for this and also for a quick implementation, a model of sales pledges for agriculture. I believe that there has been a broad desire in the Danish Parliament to look at a model of selling pledges, but a concrete model has had to be developed and funding has had to be found to realise it. What we are doing here is not, in my view, a tax relief, but an opportunity for us to postpone the tax so that it is paid on an ongoing basis as you pay off this bill of sale. Of course, it has an interest rate effect, and the interest rate effect is the cost of this bill. That is why I do not think that there is now a completely objective description of what a tax relief is called here as a tax relief for agriculture. Nor do I think it is fair to use it as an excuse for rejecting the proposal, because it is a proposal for a salesman's letter which, among other things, is. can help to ensure that a farm stays on family hands or is passed on to the feed master or agricultural employee and is not just bought up by the neighbouring farmer, who operates a larger and larger farm, or by a company that buys farmland in an industry that is subject to consolidation. So if you want to benefit the small farmer, if you want to, you have to support the idea of a selling mortgage model. I would like to sign that the Danish People's Party has pushed so that we could find the money for this jointly in the Finance Act. I understand the Social Democrats' dissatisfaction with the fact that it has not been looked at in the Financial Committee. But there I think Mr. Jesper Petersen should thank Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, for Dansk Folkeparti has helped find the money for this. It's money that, if we hadn't spent it on this, we would have spent something else in the Finance Act. So now the Socialists are given the opportunity to get what is called a free round once again. In other words, we can vote in favour of the draft law, but it is some others who have found the money, which has therefore been found in the Finance Act. And I can promise you that if we hadn't spent the money on this, we would have spent it on something else. We hadn't just left them in the box for future governments. But I understand that we would have liked to have waited, but there has then been a wish that we found funding for that right away. And we have developed the model, and that is why we are putting forward the proposal, which is why I also hope for broad support for it. This will certainly help Danish agriculture and especially young farmers who have also been in my office and said that they have problems finding funding and that this could be a solution. I think they will be very happy, because with the model we are proposing, it is possible to distribute the tax over up to 10 years, so that it fits in with the mortgage payments provided that the mortgage bill does not exceed 10%. of the sales price. This gives younger farmers, but also other buyers of commercial property a helping hand in the financing, as the seller gets this tax incentive to place some of his funds from the real estate trade in a sales promotion letter. I am convinced that the letters of sale will prove to be a good solution in cases where it may be difficult today to obtain parts of the funding. I am also sure that the new rules will help to boost a necessary generational change in, among others. agriculture. Then the Danish Fisheries Association, in the hearing answer, has wanted fishing vessels to be included in the sales promotional letter model. I have also discussed this with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, and in the government, as I said, we are positive about this, and I also understand that the Danish People's Party is. Extension of the scheme to other types of assets, e.g. However, fishing vessels will require a closer analysis, which is why it is not possible to include it in this bill, but we will work to ensure that we can introduce such rules in a later assembly of parliaments. That is the starting point of my party and the government. Then, with the bill, we propose to increase the current tax-free bottom allowance of DKK 10,000. for benefits to persons from approved associations who support social or disease-control work. And that proposal actually comes from someone who represents a fund that makes these tax-free distributions for, among other things. people who are affected by illness, who informed me that the amount is not being regulated on an ongoing basis. That is why it has been 5,000 kroner for many years, which means that it is quietly hollowed out. And then we checked that out, and it's true that it would actually be fair to increase the amount to this $10,000. I think some of those who are being helped by this scheme, which among other things... Supporting social and disease-fighting work will greatly appreciate the help that is being given here. And it's perfectly reasonable, because it makes sense to index the bottom allowance. It will reach a level that is appropriate and reasonable. Finally, I would like to highlight the changes to help the maritime sector so that Denmark can maintain and expand its position as a maritime nation in the global market. That is why I am delighted that we are extending the rules on seafaring allowances so that research and marine survey ships will be more able to employ the same type of seamen as those employed on traditional cargo ships. And that is quite right, as Mr. Jesper Petersen mentioned that it was among other things. is sir. Bjarne Laustsen, who helped raise this case. Bjarne Laustsen has also travelled to me as tax minister; I have visited Dana. And I must admit that when I have asked my officials why it is that these sailors are not part of the scheme, it is difficult to find a good argument for that other than that they were not thought of when the deduction was introduced. And I do not think that is a good or a fair answer, and that is why we are now proposing to extend the rules on the seaman's allowance. It is perfectly fair to the seamen working on Dana and other research and marine survey ships. So it is a very good thing that a concrete injustice was raised and that together we could find a solution to it. So praise everyone for that, and I also hear broad support for that part of the bill. Secondly, the proposal amends the date of application of the extension of the tonnage tax scheme, which we adopted in this Chamber 31⁄2 years ago. In the government, we are pleased that, after a long procedure, the Commission has said that they approve our enlargement. However, before the rules can enter into force, it is necessary to adjust the date of effect of the adopted law. Once this has been done, both the extension of the tonnage tax scheme and the corresponding extension of the DIS scheme can enter into force, and it will help to ensure, as the Conservatives' rapporteur said, that Denmark can continue to be in front of maritime Denmark with good conditions and be competitive in relation to the world. Then there has also been concern: I have also discussed this with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party on the demands that the Commission makes, that is, that case law has developed in such a way that in our current DIS scheme there are things that are not in line with state aid rules. The Commission tells us that we need to make this right. And there has been a desire for it to be discussed and for the circle to be informed of it. I am sorry, as Minister for Taxation, that this has not happened. It is a mistake on my part. But we would like to correct that, and that is why I have agreed with Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, that we are convening a meeting where we can be informed about these things, which means that we need to make some changes to another bill on the DIS scheme if we are to maintain our state aid approval of it and at the same time implement the rules on the extension of the specialship scheme, which is a legislative proposal we have adopted with broad support. I'd be happy to discuss that. I also regret from the platform that there has not been any orientation of the contract circle. When there has not been, it is because there is nothing to do, but that is why it is, of course, entirely legitimate that you want to be informed, and that is a mistake on my part. I hope that that error will not be allowed to go beyond the extension of the system, which is reasonable. And then we have to live with some of the changes to the DIS scheme. But there will be an opportunity to discuss the consequences of these changes and what that will mean, and that is quite reasonable, and therefore I will invite this week to a meeting on it with the parties involved in the DIS scheme. And then I hope that at the meeting we will find out to some extent that there is at least a majority in favour of the changes, so that, as I said, the extension of the special ship regime can enter into force. And that is what we are providing for here in the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423161019	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Bjarne Laustsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423161023	Thank you. On behalf of the people of the lake, I would like to say thank you. It is not always Her Majesty's time to give special thanks to the people of the lake, and they are doing well out there. I would therefore just like to say that, as some may have noticed, the Social Democratic Party has launched a campaign on how to work together across the parties... that something can be done with them and them... and this is a brilliant example of how we are no further away than a telephone call or an e-mail, and there I would like to thank the Minister of Taxation for coming up too and meeting the sailors who work there and asking how long they are gone, etc. And he could see the comparison with the fact that others had that deduction and that they didn't. That is why it is very good that we can work together on such a thing, and it is also good that the Danish Parliament today signs by saying that it is quite reasonable that people who make an effort and who have the necessary qualifications, maritime documents and so on should, of course, be equal. What is of course interesting now is that this must surely be notified in the European Union, and that is why I have a brief question on behalf of the seafarers: when does the tax minister expect this deduction to become a reality for them?
ParlaMint-DK_20190423161140	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423161141	The answer to that is in my question-answer form, which is in my place and which I for once forgot to take up on the platform. So I'd rather give Mr. Bjarne Laustsen a written answer to that, but I would say that we are doing so as quickly as possible. And normally we choose a time of effect where it is so that when you get the approval and that is clearly the expectation then it applies from the time of effect. But, of course, we can only pay the money out once we have the approval of the scheme. But we'll do it as soon as possible. And if sir... Bjarne Laustsen would like to put the question in writing, and I should also like to reply to it in writing. I would also like to say that I share the interpretation of our representative democracy. So, there are some who believe that we members of parliament should only move on the broad lines, but part of being a member of parliament, being elected in a large circle and representing someone, is also to fight for their interests and fight for the local area you represent. Mr. Bjarne Laustsen did in this case, as other members of parliament have done in other cases. And I am pleased that we have managed to find a fair solution to an unfairness in our tax system.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423161249	Thank you. Sir. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423161251	Thank you so much for that answer. I think they will be very interested in that. And it may well be that we have to exchange it in writing to get a more precise date if it can be given. But at any rate, it is probably wise that they hide their boons and attachments and travel patterns in order to earn the new deduction. But now it is the case that the trees do not always grow into the sky, and I know that the tax minister and I have a common interest in that very thing, and there we have had the Nordic double taxation agreement, and these people come and say that it is quite unreasonable that just because they have worked for a Swedish or Norwegian shipping company or company, the pension is actually taxed more heavily than the wage income they have. And now the tax minister has gathered a bouquet of many different things and things, and it could be exciting to finally assess whether it could also be used in this. The Minister for Taxation can, of course, table an amendment against the rest of us if it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423161351	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423161352	I would also very much like to do so in order to meet those who are in a state of crisis in the area of pensions. But the challenge is not that some are taxed harder than others, but it is that if you are a sailor and have a pension from Norway and Sweden, you are taxed in the same way as a Danish pensioner. In the past there was then a tax advantage, and there are then some of those who have now retired who would like to take part in it, and I understand that. But it costs a great deal of money if we were to do so, and I have not managed to find that money. And neither has Mr. Bjarne Laustsen to point out where to come from. But if we can do that, of course I'm open to looking at these rules, but we can't get it into this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423161434	With that, we say thank you to the tax minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423161447	We are opening the negotiations, and we are doing so with the Minister for the Environment and Food on the podium. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423161507	Thank you for that, President. Today, first of all, we are dealing with a motion for a resolution on the introduction of a ceiling for care. This is something we are talking about here in the Folketing. In this context, it is three months, and it is for animals placed in shelter because the owner of the animal is in prison or forced or otherwise hospitalized. First of all, I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for having tabled the proposal and for putting animal welfare back on the agenda. I would like to say from the government and from my own side that we fully agree with the intentions behind the proposal that we should not just accept that the needs of an animal are being neglected simply because the owners of the animal are not able to care for the animal themselves and cannot or will not care for the animal while they are in prison or while they are in hospital. However, the government does not immediately consider that the introduction of a 3-month care ceiling for domesticated animals is the right solution. It is the government's view that the resolution will not bring any animal welfare benefits, as the internalisation itself does not in itself constitute an animal welfare problem. At the same time, I have to say that I and the government will not support a proposal which could mean that sick people are deprived of the right to their pets just because they are hospitalized without, by the way, proving unfit to keep animals. Generally speaking, keeping animals in shelter is not considered to be an animal welfare problem. Nor is there any scientific justification for saying that a treatment that is sound at the time of placement will generally become irresponsible after three months. The government trusts that the shelters around the country will look after the animals placed or otherwise located on the shelter, both securely and conscientiously, and, in the view of the government, they will also be able to do so for longer periods of time. In the view of the government, the fact that the opposite is generally the case is not entirely in line with reality. That is not to say that there have never been concrete examples of animals that thrived less well in an international market. The point here is that the needs of the individual animal must then be addressed. It is therefore the needs of the specific animal that must be met, which cannot be achieved by setting a general time limit, as is proposed here, a limit that we find in here. In fact, a so-called caring ceiling on internationals does not take into account whether the needs of the specific animal have been met. Furthermore, the individual circumstances of an animal should be taken into account when deciding on the care of the animal and, moreover, the treatment of the animal must be safe at all times, whether in an international or not. Today, there is no specific regulation of what should happen to an animal if the owner is in prison or is forced or similar. In practice, it will often be the police who stand with the animal when the situation arises and therefore it is currently the police who step in and ensure that the animal is not left alone for an indefinite period when the owner of the animal is either arrested or in custody or forced into custody. It is the view of the National Police that, generally speaking, the police try to reach agreements with the owner of the animal, who takes into account both the owner and the animal, on the care of the animal, for example. family, with friends, with neighbors or other acquaintances, until the owner can again take care of the animal himself. And if it is not possible to allow the animal to be cared for by family, friends or acquaintances, the police are trying to make arrangements with the owner that the animal should be handed over or otherwise, depending on what such in casu is deemed to be the best solution. In situations where the owner does not want or cannot cooperate with the police in caring for the animal, the police will, as a rule, have to place the animal in a shelter until another solution is revealed. It is not the case that the animal is forgotten as soon as it is placed in an shelter. The National Police have reported that the vast majority of police circles follow up international animals in cases where the police have entered into an international agreement on placement and that police circles are largely trying to find alternative solutions to internationalisation, including the care of the aforementioned family, friends and other associates. It is not possible to say clearly how many animals are placed in shelters or how long they are placed here because the owner is in prison or hospital and there is no more permanent solution for the animal. On the basis of a consultation of police circles, the National Police have estimated that the number of cases in which the police have internalised an animal because the owner is in prison or hospital and that it has not subsequently been possible to reach agreement with the owner on a lasting solution is limited. As I have said, the government shares the opinion of the proposers that animal needs should not simply be disregarded because the owner is unable to take care of them. It is the needs of the animals that must be at the heart, and animals must be treated properly at all times, and animals must be treated properly. The government also recognises to such an extent the efforts of many international organisations around the world for animals placed in the shelters for a shorter or longer period of time. However, as I have said, we do not believe that a three-month care ceiling solves a challenge that may or may not exist. In particular, the government considers it inappropriate for sick persons to be able to be deprived of the right to their animals while they are in hospital. I myself will have difficulty saying to a hip patient: It is a pity that your rehabilitation is taking longer; in the meantime, King has been forcibly removed. For the reasons I have just mentioned, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution, but I think it makes sense to clarify, among other things. the extent and nature of internationalisations and, of course, police agreements with animal owners and internationals. Furthermore, the existing rules and their application should be clarified, because there is not such a clear and unambiguous picture. My ministry will therefore enter into dialogue with the Ministry of Justice on this matter. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423162151	Thank you to the Minister for the Environment and Food. There are no brief comments, so that must be very clear speech from the Minister. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line, and that is now Mr. President. Simon Kollerup, who will certainly endeavour to deliver just as clear a speech. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423162213	Thank you to the Danish People's Party for once again putting a very important topic on the agenda. I think it is true that there are some animals that are caught up in the rules today. It is a pity when animals are stranded on shelters, and I think that we should start by looking at whether we cannot do better. With the motion for a resolution, the Danish People's Party wants a ceiling to be introduced which means that animals placed in shelter, because the owner cannot take care of the animal, can then be passed on to a new owner after 3 months. The proposal addresses a problem that arises when an animal owner is imprisoned, long-term or forced in-house and therefore cannot take care of his own pet, so if the animal owner cannot get family or friends to care for the pet, it ends up in shelter. As it is today, the shelter must take care of the animal until the owner can take care of his pet again. With this proposal, the internationals are given the opportunity, as it were, to force the removal of the animal and give it to a new owner whose pet has been on the shelter for 3 months. In 2018, there were approx. 160 animals that ended up in shelter because the owner could not care for the animal, and it is of course a pity for the animals that end up in shelter today and get into trouble. There should be no doubt about that, and therefore it is also a matter that rightly takes up both the animals' protection and the animal protection system, which points out that there are more and more animals that spend an unreasonable amount of time on shelters. I think it is appropriate to look at how we can ensure that fewer animals are caught up, and that is why I also think it is appropriate to engage in a dialogue with both the government and, above all, with the proposers to look at whether we cannot find a common ground in this matter, possibly in the form of a report which can in some way ensure that fewer animals are caught up. That is why we also support the Minister's intention to clarify the scope of the matter and further clarify the nature of the care and the different circumstances surrounding this proposal. I think it is a good thing that the Ministry of Justice is contributing to further clarification of the matter. So in those words we in the Social Democratic Party are looking forward to good committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423162449	Thank you, sir. Simon Kollerup. Next in line, sir. Erling Bonnesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423162458	Thank you. Good animal welfare is important. I think we all care that it should be okay. We are obliged to ensure that the animals we keep are well at all times. The responsibility is initially with the owner or owners, but in certain situations the owner cannot take care of the animal, as is also mentioned, for example if he has been forced or in custody or otherwise. In such a situation, the animal is placed in an animal shelter while trying, in dialogue with the owner, to find the best solution for the animal or animals, and in the vast majority of cases it also manages to agree with the owner to have the animal looked after, for example, by friends, family, neighbors or by other means through voluntary agreements, so that the situation is under control. So, no matter how long it takes to reach an agreement on the care of the animal, the animal's treatment at an shelter must, of course, be sound, that goes without saying. The proposal has already been examined by the previous rapporteurs and the Minister, so I shall not repeat it, but simply say that in the Left we cannot immediately support the resolution as it stands. Then I should also say hello to Mr. Carsten Bach of the Liberal Alliance and say that neither can the Liberal Alliance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423162621	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it's mr. Øjvind Vilsholm, Enhedslisten. No, it's sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten, who comes on the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423162650	Thank you. We believe that it is too square a proposal that, like the introduction of a three-month care ceiling for animals placed on the premises, it will be defined. If we are in a situation where there are animals that need to be longer in an international airport, why not find a better solution after a very short time? I find it hard to say that this is the solution. We have been given some figures to show that it is quite a few animals, and it is on such a day that we have seen here in Parliament that the Danish People's Party has voted against banning mink breeding in Denmark, where 16 million minks are raised a year. It is on such a day when the Danish People's Party has voted against a motion for a resolution from the Enhedslisten to ban long transport of animals, banning the 8 million long transport of animals from Denmark. There we shall then have a motion for a resolution from the Danish People's Party focusing on a very small group of animals. It's just to take the proportions into it. If we can come to something where we create better animal welfare for some of these animals, which are affected by the fact that the person who normally cares for them is being held in custody or forced or incarcerated, then we are open to it, but we find it difficult to see that such a quadruple proposal to create a care ceiling should be the solution to the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423162819	Thank you, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Then it's mr. Julius Graakjær Grantzau, Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423162829	Thank you. I think I can manage in that time, but it seems that I am continuing in the time of the previous rapporteur. I have had the pleasure of filling in today for our animal welfare rapporteur, Mr. Christian Poll, on this motion for a resolution from the Danish People's Party. He has asked me to say that he is concerned about the case, which was described in the article "Securities in Call: Prison animals cost the cashier on TV 2 Lorry's website on March 1, 2019 and he has been in dialogue with the Animal Protection Agency on the issue mentioned. He has also asked questions to the Minister of Justice, alm. Question 628 - which I also think I heard the Minister refer to the way in which cooperation between the police and the Animal Protection Agency and other animal protection organisations works today and how it can be improved. However, the answer was not clear and was also marked by not recognising the problem described by the Animal Protection Agency. There is therefore reason to follow up and find a more sustainable solution where the division of responsibilities between the police and the Animal Protection Agency is defined more clearly than it is today. With current agreements and practices, the Animal Protection Agency often has to seek solutions with the owner of the animals, even if they are in extremely difficult situations due to illness, crime or social problems. Often, Animal Protection becomes a throwing ball between case workers and supporters, Crime Service and hospitalization sites, etc. etc. and may not talk about the owner of the beast after all. It does not seem to be ideal for an animal welfare organisation to undertake tasks which are thus social or criminal services and, moreover, without sanctioning the owners of the animals. Whether or not the resolution solves these problems is uncertain in the alternative. Perhaps there will also have to be other instruments for or instead of, and perhaps more attention needs to be paid to the contract between the police and animal protection organisations. Perhaps it needs to be tightened up so that the roles are more clear so that the Animal Protection Agency can concentrate on taking care of the animals interned while the police maintain contact with the owners or perhaps there should be quite different solutions. Against this background, we are curious and hesitant about our final position and are also positive about what the Minister says about looking at it in order to clarify a little more precisely what is actually the task of which authorities in this situation. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423163111	Thank you, sir. Julius Graakjær Grantzau. Then it's Mrs. Trine Torp, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423163118	Thank you. We must ensure the proper welfare of all animals throughout their lives. This applies to both pets, production animals and animals in captivity. Yes, it also applies to pets whose owners cannot take care of them for a shorter or longer period of time. Animal welfare applies to all animals. The SF is therefore in favour of the attention which the authors of this motion for a resolution give to this specific group of animals. No animals should be overlooked, and that is why it is so crucial that there are some strong organizations such as the Animal Protection Agency that help to focus on this group of animals. However, how animal welfare is ensured for animals whose owners are in custody or forced inmates is a difficult dilemma, because there are many considerations that apply to • and here I am probably also a little influenced by being both animal welfare rapporteur and social rapporteur. First of all, there is consideration for the animals themselves, because it must not be the case that animals are just left on animal shelters for months without any plan for what to do with them. But there is also a concern to take into account the pet owners it concerns. In fact, they are often people who are very vulnerable and where animals are a large and important part of their lives, for some maybe the only thing they have, and these animals often have a rehabilitating function for these citizens. It would really be desirable for some of the places where these citizens are placed for a while to have room for animals, and that could be another way of tackling this problem. However, in view of these different issues, we do not believe in the SF that the resolution is the right solution to this dilemma. We believe that the solution must be to strengthen the existing actors, i.e. the police, animal protection organisations, also like the social authorities, in the dilemma of allowing them to engage more closely with the owner concerned in the care of the pet for a period of time, and to ensure a high level of animal welfare in the animal shelters concerned, in the event that no agreement can be reached with the owner. For if, in each case, a plan can be drawn up that benefits both the animal and its owner, it will be best. But it is difficult to formalize it with clear time limits, because it will be different on a case-by-case basis, which plan will be the best, what opportunities there could be for care in the network, and how realistic it is that the citizen can take care of his animal again. So we cannot support the resolution in its current form, but we would like to help look at the possibilities that could be available to ensure that animals are not just left on animal shelters for an indefinite period, but also to find solutions that benefit both owners and animals. And I should like to welcome the Radicals and say that they cannot support the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423163424	Thank you to Mrs Trine Torp. Then it's mr. Orla Østerby, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423163432	Thank you. It is a proposal for a three-month care ceiling for animals placed on the market because, for example, the owner of the farm. are in prison or are forced or similar. In the Conservative People's Party, we feel that with this proposal we do not like the fact that we are going to have to get rid of animals forcibly. We have to say that there are owners who need their animals very much, that animals may be the only thing they have in their daily lives. There it will be sad to return after three months and find that the animal has been removed. However, we agree with the intention behind the proposal that we should not accept that the needs of animals should be ignored simply because the owner of the animal is unable to care for the animal himself. However, I do not believe that the introduction of a 3-month care limit for domesticated animals is the right solution. The proposal will not bring any animal welfare benefits, as internalisation does not pose an animal welfare problem. Nor will we support the proposal, which could result in sick people being deprived of the right to a pet. Generally speaking, it is not considered to be an animal welfare problem that animals are kept in shelters, nor is there any professional justification for saying that a care that is safe at the time of placement will generally be indefensible after 3 months. We trust that the shelters around Denmark will look after the animals placed safely. In those situations where the owner does not want or cannot cooperate with the police in caring for the animals, the police will, as a rule, have to place the animals in a shelter. That's the way it is, and that's the way it is in everyday life. But it is not the case that the animal will be forgotten as soon as the animal is placed. Often the police grab the shelters to find family or friends who can take care of the animal. It is also the case that the police generally try to agree with the owner of the animal, who meets the owner's needs, on the care of the animal in family, friends, neighbors or other acquaintances until the owner can take care of the animal himself. And the National Police estimates that it is a limited number of cases per year in this area. We have to say that this is probably not the biggest problem we have in the field of animal welfare, and that it is quite a few cases a year. Conservatives do not believe that it is appropriate for us to set a limit of three months. That is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423163724	Thank you, sir. Orla Østerby. And then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Karina Due, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423163747	Thank you, President. Thank you for your comments. Now it was said in several of the rapporteur's speeches that these were very few cases, but then I can tell you that in 2018 the Animal Protection had no less than 66 dogs, 67 cats and 36 other animals in shelter due to the owner's hospitalisation or imprisonment. The figures from Animal Protection were 47 dogs, 30 cats and 11 other animals. And remember, these are only the animals placed by the police because of the owner's imprisonment or forced admission. It's actually big numbers. Many of those animals were interned for months and several of them for years, and that is certainly not animal welfare. But what justifies an animal having to go to prison in the eyes of a goose just because the owner is? When I make this B proposal, it's on the basis of a call from the Animal Protection Agency. They experience several cases, and they experience that animals are there for longer periods of time, and they experience that the same animals come again and again. And even if the Animal Protection and Animal Protection are doing a really good job for these animals, it is not an optimal life for the animals. B 127 provides for the possibility of depriving the ownership of these animals. In this way they can be communicated and have a new family that both wants and can live up to the responsibilities that come with having an animal. It's animal welfare. But isn't it a pity for those who lose their animals? Yes, it is, but are the animals supposed to pay the price? I'm going to set up a maximum detention period of three months. It therefore gives plenty of time for a solution to be found, and a solution must of course help vulnerable people to find it. Sometimes the best thing to do for your animal is simply to say goodbye to it, even though it hurts. But in this way you can be sure that it is done in a good way and in as good a way as possible and that a thorough job will be done to find the right family for the animal. There are several who have mentioned that there are no animal welfare consequences of detention for many months or for years. That's not true. In fact, it is the animal shelters themselves who are shouting and saying: Help us, we don't have the opportunity to give these animals a decent life. So if you claim that there are no animal welfare consequences from having animals interned for a long time, then perhaps you should go out and talk to those who know something about it. So, Minister, hip patients are discharged after 1 day today, so these are not the patients involved. I know that we have a problem with those who are forced into the hospital because they are mentally ill and may be mentally ill for a long time, but I also believe that, hand in hand with such a proposal here, they must also be made a social effort for them. You could figure out something with some communities where people tend each other's animals for periods and such things, so you always have a backup. Then I cannot help but say that it is not just a question of whether you can take care of your animal yourself, because if you find a dog's pension for your dog, you have also taken care of your animal. What I'm talking about is the animals being placed by the police for longer periods of time sometimes for years. Firstly, they take up the space so that the internationals cannot take in other animals. Secondly, it also costs the box of these animals, and the bill for all that money we know there's only one place to send, and that's for taxpayers. But thank you for your comments. I look forward to discussing this in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423164205	Thank you to Mrs Karina Due. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423164223	We are opening the debate, and that is with the Minister for Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423164246	Thank you. With the resolution called B 122, Enhedslisten proposes that all public and private employers should be required to look up vacancies at www.jobnet.dk and on the job portals of professional organisations. In addition, it is proposed that employers should contact the local job centre and the professional organisation in the area before filling positions. And if the employer fails to meet these obligations, employers must be fined. Let me start by stating that I am also in favour of a transparent job market where there is visibility about job openings. Frankly, I do not understand why private companies that find it difficult to recruit employees are doing nothing more to look up jobs. But from there and then to demand that they do so is, in my view, far too far-reaching, and I would also like to make a few comments on that. In Denmark, we have the special situation that public employers are obliged to apply for vacant posts filled with the candidate considered to be best qualified. Therefore, public employers must look up positions at www.jobnet.dk so that all candidates can become familiar with the posts. Private employers, on the other hand, are not subject to the same obligation. They can therefore employ employees without the posts being opened up in advance. I strongly advocate enhanced cooperation between private companies, cashiers and job centres. This helps to ensure that the unemployed get into jobs and that companies can get the necessary labour. I would therefore encourage companies to look up vacancies at www.jobnet.dk at any time so that there is visibility about job openings. This also increases the chance to get jobs occupied, and it is not a matter of course in this time when more and more people are experiencing that it can be difficult to get the necessary labour. On the other hand, private employers must have the freedom to choose the recruitment channels themselves which they think make sense, and they must have the freedom to recruit the candidate they consider to be the most suitable. I do not think that we, as legislators, should interfere in this or start to legislate about it. The Enhedslisten refers in the motion for a resolution to the fact that the government must work to amend EU rules so that legislation is introduced to ensure that all companies have to look up positions. However, there is no EU legislation preventing us from doing so as long as the rules do not lead to direct or indirect discrimination against Danish workers compared to workers from Europe. If, on the other hand, it is only about the employment of foreign labour, which B 137 of April 2016 was about, it is true that, according to EU rules, we cannot impose a requirement for companies to look up jobs. This would be contrary to the provisions of EU law on discrimination between Danish and foreign workers. So in many ways I think that this proposal does not make sense. I welcome the fact that in Denmark we have a healthy and flexible labour market with around 800,000 job openings per year. At www.jobnet.dk, 270,000 posts were posted throughout 2018. In addition, www.jobnet.dk searches other Danish web sites for job postings, so that approx. 26,000 posts at www.jobnet.dk. Nor is it the case that companies do not use the job centres, or vice versa. Cooperation between job centres and companies is an area that the government focuses on strengthening. Cooperation is essential in order to prevent bottlenecks in the Danish labour market, and there is no doubt that there can be even greater focus at the country's job centres on making the right match between the unemployed and the companies that may need labour. After all, we have also taken various initiatives. Among other things: We have reached a tripartite agreement and, in the case of adult and continuing training, we have among other things. allocated over 100 million. kr. more than four years to strengthen labour market monitoring and coordination of adult and continuing training efforts at regional level. This should help to ensure a much better correlation between supply and demand in terms of adult and continuing training. And it must also ensure that the unemployed acquire the skills that are needed and that companies actually demand. So basically, I think that many initiatives have been taken, which also means that this proposal does not benefit the government. And that is why the government is not going to support the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423164658	There are brief comments, first from Mr. Finn Sørensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423164701	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I particularly welcome the Minister's clear emphasis on the fact that we do not need to ask the European Union to introduce what Enhedslisten is proposing here. After all, the reason why we have changed it slightly in relation to the previous proposal is that we were told at the time that we would first have to ask the European Union if we wanted to do such a thing, and in terms of content it is quite the same. But to the content of it: the Minister does not want to be involved, whether it is with or against EU rules. It's a very clear message. I would just like to ask the Minister: how is it that the Minister thinks that it is okay if he does so, otherwise he has to report it here and now that public companies have a duty to look up the job vacancies, but apparently the same obligation should not apply to private companies? Why the discrimination?
ParlaMint-DK_20190423164757	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423164758	After all, the proposal is that private companies should be forced to look up jobs. In this respect, I believe that there is a difference between private and public companies, which is why I do not necessarily think that there should be any equality between the two types of company, if that is what the questioner would like to discuss.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423164817	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423164818	Force and force: the proposal is simply that private companies should have the same obligation, and that is for social reasons. Private companies must, of course, give all unemployed people a fair chance to offer the jobs that are now available. I guess that's a reasonable social consideration. But when the Minister wants to distinguish between public and private companies here, it is probably basically because the Minister does not believe that private companies should be obliged to take such social considerations into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423164855	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423164856	I believe that there is a difference between how to organise legislation in relation to public companies and private companies. There is a difference between it, you might say, company type, and I am not going to interfere in how private companies should hire people through a legal requirement such as that proposed here by Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423164915	Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423164916	Thank you. I just wanted to see if I had understood it correctly. The Minister says that it is not really necessary to amend the EU rules in order to get this proposal through if you supported it. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20190423164931	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423164932	I can, of course, refer to what I mentioned in my speech, which was based on an earlier motion for a resolution and in which the authors of the motion have now formulated it in a different way.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423164944	Thank you, Minister. Then we start with the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, the Social Democrat, who is in favour. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423164955	I would like to start by saying that it is foolish for some companies to hire a lot of foreigners as long as we have a lot of unemployed people at home who can and want this job. That is why I also take my head every time I hear about an employer who says he can't get any people, after which it turns out that he hasn't sought any of the places where you can search, i.e. at www.jobnet.dk, at the job center or at the a-box. That is simply not good enough, and those companies need to get their act together if you ask me. It is also surprising that many people are talking about bottleneck problems as long as it turns out that those who cannot get new employees have not actually tried these places where they can find labour. Therefore, I understand that Enhedslisten is proposing this, as Enhedslisten has done before. But I just don't believe that it works as intended. Those who would rather have cheap labour will probably get it anyway, unfortunately, and with this proposal you ask a lot of good and talented companies to look up the job, even though they have found the right employee for it, and you ask the unemployed to seek a job that they basically cannot get, since the company already knows who they want. In these times of simplification, which we are all talking about, this would be a completely wrong way to go in my eyes. I would much rather focus on the contact of the job centres with companies so that they can tell them that there are a lot of skilled and hardworking people among the unemployed, and they can even bring some of them out to the company so that they can also see that it is absolutely right. Then we must also strengthen the role of the cashiers even more, for which we were the banners during the negotiations on the simplification of rules, since they know the companies quite well and can also come out to the companies and tell them what they need. I would like to make it so clear that, in this way, the companies must bring in breast milk, that there is no reason to look for good and talented employees all over the world when the new employee can actually live right around the corner, and they just need to know that from the job centre and the cashier who knows the unemployed. Then we also need to focus more on dressing the unemployed so that they become more attractive to companies, and here it does not help to save on training and the activation of the unemployed, as the government has been doing for almost four years. On the contrary, we need even more go on so that these people can stand more strong and ready to take a job. So we do not support the proposal because it increases bureaucracy both for companies and for the unemployed, and because we believe that there are things that work better to get the unemployed into work, and I should also like to welcome the Radicals, who cannot support the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423165232	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423165235	Thank you. I have to say to the rapporteur that otherwise it is very clear from the remarks, but I shall try to explain it. This isn't just about cheap or expensive labor. This proposal is about giving every unemployed person a fair chance to bid for the job vacancies before they get occupied. Nor is it about Danes and foreigners etc., because they are the same rules, whether foreigners are to be employed or Danes. Companies just have to give everyone who is unemployed a fair chance, just as public companies do. Why does the rapporteur not think this is fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20190423165312	On the other hand, if companies have already decided for an employee within their network that they would like to have and now we are not talking about foreigners at all, but we can imagine that there is a network; there are a lot of people who are currently being employed via networks and all sorts of other things, whether it is not a little silly that they should first look up the job, but that the various unemployed should actually also sit and look for the job when it is already gone. This can also be called into question. Why do that bureaucracy when it's not necessary? That's why I don't think this is gonna help anything. I believe that something else needs to be done, and that is precisely why I am talking about training and the activation of the unemployed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423165349	Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423165350	Thank you. With this argument, I am surprised that the rapporteur does not propose that we remove the public obligation to look up vacant jobs. Because there could be exactly the same thing about the fact that some municipal director or head of a particular home care department has already decided who they want to hire. So it's exactly the same problem. Why have we chosen to do this? Because it must be a social responsibility to ensure that the unemployed we have at home get the best chance of getting to work. Whatever the individual employer decides on, this motion for a resolution or any other motion for a resolution cannot take into account as long as there is something called the right of companies to manage and distribute work. So the rapporteur does not want to deal with: why should we not have a fairness? The rapporteur himself has helped to impose numerous bureaucratic measures on the unemployed to click infinity on www.jobnet.dk and all sorts of other obligations, but when it comes to employers' obligations to ensure that the unemployed we have can have a fair chance to bid on the job, the rapporteur will not be there. I really think that is shameful.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423165456	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423165457	Now the rapporteur asks, sir. Finn Sørensen, I saw about imposing even more on the unemployed, in other words requiring the unemployed to look for jobs they cannot get anyway. Well, that seems silly. It seems bureaucraticly heavy, and I will not agree to that at any time.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423165513	Thank you, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen. Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423165523	Thank you for that, President. This motion for a resolution is, of course, somewhat of a re-submission of something that we have had in the past, and when you look at what has happened since then in 2015, the position of the Danish People's Party is that we cannot support the proposal. We are not voting against it, but we are not voting in favour either, which means we are voting in favour of it. Because there's something in it that we like, and there's something in it that we don't like. Among other things: We do not think that it is right if employers should now put all jobs on www.jobnet.dk, knowing that they have one that they have employed. It may be an employer who, because we have instructed the unemployed to send applications to companies, has a pile of applications in which there are potential unemployed, lying in the drawer, and then I think it is fair enough if they take one of those who have applied for a job and who are waiting to get a job, instead of putting it up at www.jobnet.dk. Because that means, if it is to be posted on www.jobnet.dk and employers are not allowed to look at the applications they have from qualified unemployed people, that you might as well not send out applications to an employer, and we think it is wrong if they are not allowed to take some of those applications. It is widely used that you are looking for a job because you have heard that there is a job available somewhere, and why wouldn't you be able to apply for a job when you have heard that there is a job available? But you have to get in over www.jobnet.dk and apply for that position. But it may well be that you are told that there is a job available some time before it may be posted. So we do not like to say that they must now be forced to put up all those posts. On the other hand, if employers say they can't get anyone, because no one is looking for the job, or they don't have the qualifications, and then they have to pick someone up from abroad, it's fair enough that you have to look up a job so that it gets out widely. Because we have experience when they say that there is no one, that there may be some unemployed people who can do the job anyway. So there's fair enough to get it looked up, but we can't just deprive the employer of the opportunity to hire someone from whom they've had an application lying in a pile and who they're ready to hire. In our view, it would be wrong to do so. We have also done a great deal, and now the Minister did not mention it, but in the simplification effort we have, of course, instructed the municipalities and also the cashiers in an experimental scheme to match the unemployed to the available jobs, which means that the job consultants in both the cashiers and in the job centres are going to talk to the employers about where the job openings are. That is to say, if you make a law that every job should be turned up, there is no reason why job consultants should have that contact with employers to find out how to match a job available. The same is also true in the cash benefits reform, where municipalities must help match the unemployed to unemployed jobs. It is both cash benefits recipients and benefit recipients who are helped to match up to available jobs, and that is what you get the best out of by talking to the employer. So there's something in it. If it is true that you cannot get labour in Denmark because you say there is no one, then it is fair enough to say that you have to look it up at www.jobnet.dk before you can search and retrieve labour from abroad. However, to deprive employers of the opportunity to employ some of the qualified unemployed who have applied for a job with them, we do not like it and, as I said, we are voting yellow to the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423165949	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423165952	Well, excuse me. Has the rapporteur even read the proposal? Where does it say that you want to prevent the employer from hiring the person he now finds best for the job? It doesn't say anything about that. In other words, it is an amazing confusion that the rapporteur is trying to create here. But it must be because one wants to avoid the core of the problem, that is to say that the Danish People's Party, together with the other conciliation parties in the field of employment, has for years instructed the unemployed to look for jobs that it is hopeless to get. It has been all over the place, what can you say, the rule tyranny that is relative to the unemployed they must click on www.jobnet.dk and histories and come down here. That's not what this proposal is about at all. After all, it is a simple matter: to give all unemployed people a fair chance to look for jobs. And it is by its very nature in the Danish labour market that it is the employer who decides who he wants to hire. So don't mix all that stuff up. What the rapporteur has to say is: why should not all unemployed people have a fair chance to bid for the job vacancies that arise? There are approx. 500,000 job openings a year, and only about half of them, the Minister said, will be occupied via www.jobnet.dk. So there are so many jobs that the unemployed never hear about, and for the simple reason they cannot seek them either.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423170125	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423170127	Well, if you'll excuse me, sir. Finn Sørensen believes that employers are of course entitled to hire those they want, and have the right to take from the stack of applications they have received because we have ordered unemployed people to apply for a job.Why should employers look up a job at www.jobnet.dk, where it does not produce any results, but only results in unemployed people looking for jobs that they cannot get because employers have them in the pile that they want to hire? In other words, Mr. Finn Sørensen wants to forget the unemployed by sending a lot of applications to posts that they cannot get anyway, because employers have applications in the drawer, which they take up and say: we have some qualified applicants here, and then we hire them. Well, that's sir. Finn Sørensen, who is a bit out in a misleading guide to the unemployed when he says that now they are coming at www.jobnet.dk, and there are plenty of jobs to look for, knowing that employers have a stack of applications lying around that they take off. Of course, employers must be allowed to take those who have applied for the job. That's it, too, sir. Finn Sørensen says, but then it is a waste of time to look it up at www.jobnet.dk if the employer has found those they want to employ.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423170236	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423170238	Now it is the case that there could well be someone hiding in the stack of those who have applied for the job who could convince the employer that he might have to go in for a conversation. And I have to say that when you are involved in setting up a regime for the unemployed, where you impose all sorts of bureaucracy on them, you have to give them the best opportunities to look for the jobs that are available. And that's what this proposal is about. The problems which the rapporteur has to bear in mind could, of course, be dealt with equally fairly with public undertakings. So does this mean that the rapporteur believes that we should abolish the public obligation to look up vacant jobs? I do not think the rapporteur will do that, because then the rapporteur says that it is a social responsibility unless the rapporteur says that it must also be abolished. We must have the benefit of knowing that. However, if the rapporteur does not believe that we should abolish it, why should private companies not shoulder the same social responsibility as the public authorities?
ParlaMint-DK_20190423170337	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423170338	Well, I would also like private companies to look up vacant jobs if they don't have any applicants for it. Of course they should. But if they have a bunch of qualified applicants that they might have from a previous round, where they should hire people, and say there are some good people here that they are just saving for next time, where they might need some, why shouldn't they be allowed to hire them without looking up a position at www.jobnet.dk? Because they know that the applications that come there cannot be used for anything because they have chosen someone whom they want to employ.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423170408	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. Then it is the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423170414	Thank you. The resolution we are debating today is based on a classic position in the Enhedslisten that companies are greedy and that foreign labour prevents unemployed Danes from getting jobs. Nothing could be more wrong. After all, our companies create jobs, growth and prosperity every day, and they are the foundation of our welfare societies. And with regard to foreign labour, it is frankly grotesque that Enhedslisten in his comments on the proposal calls it a bad business for Denmark. The truth is, we couldn't do without foreign labour. After all, they contribute billions of dollars a year to the treasury. It's just to put things in perspective. With this in place, I would like to stress that, of course, the Left would like to see cooperation between companies and job centres. The government has been constantly focusing on this and it is going the right way. But it can certainly get better, and that is why we have, for example. in the context of the broad political agreement on a simplified employment effort, further focus was placed on strengthening cooperation between the job centre and the company. And I would recommend that companies look up vacancies at www.jobnet.dk at any time, but I will not legislate about it or even punish those who do not. Ultimately, each private company must be free to organise the recruitment process as they please. Then I would just like to say very briefly that unemployment is thus the lowest for 10 years. In other words, things are going quite fantastic on our Danish labour market. With those words, I would like to say that the Left cannot support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423170600	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423170601	Thank you. The rapporteur talks about this cooperation with the job centres, but it is not going very well, is it? For in the fourth quarter of 2018, according to employers, there were 66.700 of what is called in vain recruitments, that is, where they sought some labour they could not have. But it was only 57 percent. of these unsuccessful recruitments that the company had posted the job to www.jobnet.dk. If they had done so, it might have been that there would then have been a slightly smaller number of unsuccessful recruitments. I do not think I can convince the rapporteur of that. But then I can ask the rapporteur: if it is now to be voluntary for employers, if they want to look up a position, why should it not be voluntary for the unemployed, if they want to apply for it?
ParlaMint-DK_20190423170655	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423170657	I think it is important that, when you are unemployed and on unemployment benefit, you apply actively and that you are in an ongoing job search process. And in it you are in a dialogue with the job centre, and that is what society demands, that is, if you are on unemployment benefits, you are actively looking for jobs as long as you are unemployed. It is, of course, the right and duty thing that is naturally connected in this area. I have great support for this, and I hope that Enhedslisten will agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423170742	Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423170743	Thank you. Yes, and so this proposal is about requiring companies to actively seek and not just being satisfied that they have just talked to someone who might be good to employ, but that they really should do everything in their power to examine the possibilities of getting the best qualified workforce. Because it could be someone hiding out there who could contest the position they had on their hand. Plus, and that is probably what the rapporteur is concerned about: we have to impose on companies that they also lift the social responsibility; it is to ensure that all unemployed people have a fair chance to bid for the job vacancies that companies have; of course, also when we speak foreign labour. The rapporteur surely agrees that the most sensible thing is to hire some of the unemployed we have at home in advance rather than to bring in labour abroad. I guess you only have to do that if it turns out that you can't get the manpower you need. Then you can pick it up abroad, but perhaps that is where we also have a disagreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423170854	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423170855	I think that Enhedslisten should get a little more into what can be said about company practice in a private company set up in the world to make money. And if the private company in question wants to make money, then of course that company is looking for the best candidates. Whether it is using www.jobnet.dk or other recruitment channels, I will not interfere. However, I am absolutely convinced that they are concerned with getting the best candidates, because that is what gives the greatest growth and thus also prosperity. So I am quite confident that the Danish companies can generally handle this without having to impose different arrangements on Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423170940	Thank you, sir. Hans Andersen. Then we have reached Mrs Laura Lindahl, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423170945	Thank you. I would say that sometimes the Enhedslisten makes some proposals in this Parliament hall which are so foolish that it is a little bit difficult to deal with it seriously. And this is one of those suggestions. It is a complete lack of understanding for the private sector when it is suggested that all companies should look up all vacancies at www.jobnet.dk, on different portals at the trade unions and also contact the job centre in their municipality before filling a vacancy. Actually, I hardly know what to say to that. Somehow it becomes quite comical when one can read in the comments that Enhedslisten does not believe that companies take sufficient social responsibility to create jobs for the unemployed. So, companies have only one wish, and that is to grow. And when companies grow, more jobs are created for the unemployed. So if Enhedslisten really wants more jobs, Enhedslisten must join the Liberal Alliance's tax policy. For Liberal Alliance policy will precisely increase growth in Denmark, create more jobs and get more people into work. The Liberal Alliance in no way supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423171121	This gave rise to a brief remark by Mr Beyer de Ryke. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423171124	Thank you. I can just say that I take it as a huge praise when Mrs Laura Lindahl says that we are making foolish proposals. Perhaps I have the same, what should I say, attitude towards it, that, after all, I have never said that about any of the Liberal Alliance's proposals, and it is not because I think they are good, it is just because I prefer such a more political argument to it. But then I would just like to answer one thing: it is quite right that many companies do not assume social responsibility. For example, they did. not in the first years of the crisis, the first 3-4 years, when 170,000 Danish employees were fired and another 40,000 Eastern workers were employed, because that was what happened there, and it was not because Danish companies thought that they would do something good for the Eastern workers, it was because they wanted to do something good for their own profit, because all statistics show that it was cheap labour, cheaper than the Danish one, and that was what operated the work.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423171233	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423171234	But Mr. Finn Sørensen confirms to me that he has a lack of understanding of how the private sector operates. Because when the business community has to employ other types of citizens, it is either because it has not been possible to obtain the qualified workforce in Denmark, or because it has been pressured after a financial crisis and has therefore had to dismiss employees. The alternative to this is to close and turn off, and it certainly does not benefit the unemployed in Denmark. So if you want to keep companies in Denmark, ensure that there are also jobs for the Danes, then you have to support the framework conditions that business has. This is the best way to secure jobs, and the policy of Enhedslisten does not contribute to this; it does not contribute to much of the trade union movement either.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423171328	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423171332	Perhaps it is pointless, but I would like to point out to Mrs Laura Lindahl that I have been active in the private labour market for longer than Mrs Lindahl has been politically active, and I am quite sure of that, and I have a very clear picture of what runs the work with employers, both on my backs as an employee and at the negotiating table, and there is one thing that drives businesses, and that is to make as much money as possible. Mrs Laura Lindahl will agree with that and that is why thousands of Danish employees are systematically sacked and almost before they are out of the door • employ 40,000 Eastern workers instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423171418	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423171419	What is best for Denmark, for Danish economy and for Danish employees is that our companies earn money, that our companies do well. That is the best thing for society and for the individual, and we must support the companies in that, and we do not do that by imposing bureaucracy on them beyond all borders, which is what this proposal wants. It would be quite the wrong way to go both for the individual and for Denmark's economy together.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423171450	Thank you to Mrs Laura Lindahl. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423171458	Thank you. In the alternative, we will not force private companies to look up all positions in a larger number of places either. I believe that this will result in many companies being forced to look up positions for which they actually have a good candidate, and it will be unnecessary time to spend on it, and it will also create a huge bureaucracy, including as regards the part of sanctions that needs to be applied. I believe that this will mean that there will be a lot of jobs that the unemployed will seek, but which are not real jobs and which it is really not possible to get. Then I actually think that Mr. Bent Bøgsted from Dansk Folkeparti made a point that unsolicited applications can be neglected in this way. I think that sending unsolicited applications is a way in which an unemployed person can show a little extra interest in a specific company and get into it a little bit. If you are about to wait for a job notice and have a long process with it, then the applicant who has sent an unsolicited application may have found another job. But in any case, I also think that some of the meaning of the unsolicited applications disappears in this way. We see a labour market now that has a number of bottlenecks, some industries where there is really a need for labour and some industries where there is no, and we see a lot of structural problems. I wish we could make the job centres better identify the places where there is work to get, get the unemployed qualified for those jobs and get them qualified to find the jobs and apply for those jobs in a good way; however, without compulsion, because in the alternative we are in favour of cash assistance without counterclaims and cash benefits without counterclaims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423171654	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423171657	Thank you. Yes, I have noticed that the alternative would not last time impose obligations on the employer to lift the social responsibility that exists. But I have to say that the reasons that come up are not really consistent, because that is what is happening today. There are then plenty of unemployed people looking for jobs where the employer has already decided that he or she has a candidate. This is likely to happen in the public sector. We do not know to what extent this is happening, and we will never know to what extent, because there are no employers standing up and saying: yes, I looked up the job, but I had already decided. There are a few who are honest and say: Qualified applicant has been. We do, for example. in the Enhedslisten. If we get into the situation that we think we have a qualified candidate, we write it in the job ad. And then, of course, the unemployed can do away with themselves if they want to seek it, but that is not an argument for not requiring companies to shoulder social responsibility; it is to give all 150,000 unemployed a fair chance to offer the jobs that are available. That is what this proposal is about, and I am really surprised that the alternative cannot relate to what is the purpose of the proposal, namely the fairness that is lacking today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423171819	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423171821	I think it is good style if Enhedslisten, when advertising for labour, writes that there are already qualified applicants on the field. I think that is very good style; I wish more companies did. But I do not think that this resolution solves the problem. The rapporteur himself says that it is already happening today, including in the public sector, that unemployed people are looking for jobs that are actually gone. It's no good; it's a circus without equals. So why do we need more of that? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423171858	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423171858-2	However, no legislation whatsoever can solve this problem. It can't be done. What you can ensure is that the unemployed get some real chances to bid for the available jobs there are. That's just what this proposal is about. And why do you oppose it? I just don't get it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423171915	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423171916	I'll say that quite simply. That is because we do not believe that the proposal solves the problem that it has to solve. We believe much more that we need to be mapped out where jobs are needed and that we need qualified unemployed people to find them, to seek them and to take them.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423171931	Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl. Then we've reached Mr. Knox. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423171939	Thank you. The Enhedslisten proposes with the resolution that all public and private employers should be required to look up vacancies at www.jobnet.dk and on the job portals of professional organisations. We in the Conservative People's Party cannot support that. We do not want to impose on Danish companies that they need one particular channel to recruit. They must be able to assess for themselves how best to recruit the necessary labour, and of course we are not going to legislate on that. If employers and companies are required to look up all positions, I think that the opposite is the case. We have also heard a little about this in the debate earlier, namely that a lot of posts are being opened up that are actually occupied, but they are simply being turned up because the law requires it. This wastes the time of both companies and the unemployed. The Danish labour market is one of the labour markets where jobs are most often changed. In fact, there are 800,000 annual job openings. So we have a flexible labour market and that is good. And, of course, we cannot support the fact that we are about to impose on companies to recruit through a particular channel; they must retain the freedom to choose the most suitable candidate. And so I think that if we want to do something good for the relatively few unemployed we have in the country, we must of course make it attractive and easy to operate in Denmark, and we do not do so by imposing additional burdens on them, as this proposal will do. So, of course, we cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423172118	Thank you. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423172119	Thank you. I just want to hear from the rapporteur: where does this proposal say that companies are not allowed to use other channels as well? The rapporteur said that we should not require companies to use one particular channel. You may use other channels, but if the rapporteur says that there is something else, I would like to know where it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423172139	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423172139-2	As far as I understand, it says that it should be posted on www.jobnet.dk. I just think it is totally unnecessary to impose on companies to do so. I am just saying that companies should be allowed the freedom to choose the right candidates from where they think it is right to do so. And if we start putting these extra burdens on companies, it will result in lower productivity, because the more burdens we impose on business, the lower productivity will be. And it ultimately hurts the unemployed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423172214	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423172215	The rapporteur cannot therefore find a place where our motion for a resolution says that, in addition to the clear commitment that is now being made, we should not be allowed to use other channels, for example. own ads, contact the union, or whatever it may be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423172230	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423172231	What I am saying is that, of course, we do not support the proposal because it places an unnecessary burden on businesses, that is, a totally unnecessary burden. Of course, we think that as a company you should have the opportunity to recruit yourself in the way that you think is best. This is what benefits the Danish companies best and thus also the unemployed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423172247	Thank you, sir. Anders Johansson. Then we have reached the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mr Beazley. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423172300	Thank you. And thank you for the debate. If we are to start with the good news, it is, of course, the minister who brought it: that there is nothing in this proposal that makes it impossible to implement it within the framework of EU rules. We are pleased about this, because that was the reason that was used last by several rapporteurs and by the then minister, so that we were not allowed to do so for the European Union, so that alone there was no reason to spend more effort on it. We have then made it clear that this is not the case, and I am, of course, pleased about that. What, then, is the purpose of the proposal? I've tried to say it sometimes, but it's like you don't really want to deal with it. Basically, it is a matter of fairness to the 150,000 and, for periods, many, many more thousands of unemployed people we have in this country, that is to say, that they should have a fair chance to offer the vacancies that are available. And there we can only see that there is therefore a great deal of room for improvement in the behaviour of employers in this respect. The Minister stated that approx. 250,000 jobs per year are posted at www.jobnet.dk, and at the same time we know that there are approx. 0.5 million • don't hang me on the decimal places • job openings on the Danish labour market per year. This means that in round numbers, only about half of the vacancies in this country are posted on a channel where all unemployed people have an opportunity to apply for them. We find this a major problem in the Enhedslisten, and frankly it is shameful that there are no more rapporteurs here who take it so seriously that they say: well then we have to get to the necks of those companies so that they are obliged to look up the unemployed jobs. This may, of course, be due to the fact that one basically believes that only the public has a social responsibility in this respect and that the freedom of companies must be so unlimited that it should not be limited by a social responsibility to give the unemployed a fair chance. If we go a little further in the facts about things, I mentioned earlier that the number of unsuccessful recruitments in the fourth quarter of 2018 was 66.700 measured over the last six months. But it was only 57 percent. of these unsuccessful recruitments that companies had posted the job to www.jobnet.dk. And only in 23%. of the unsuccessful recruitments, the company contacted the job center. Only in 8%. of the unsuccessful recruitments, the company made contact with the union. In Denmark, one in three people get a new job through acquaintances and one in eight are contacted by employers. And only three out of ten jobs are achieved through an ad. Well, that says something about the fact that we have a huge problem in terms of giving the unemployed in this country a fair chance to bid for the available jobs, and that is something that is very much on the minds of the same parties who reject such a proposal here. After all, these are parties which are not pale to impose all kinds of measures, which can reasonably be called bureaucratic, so that they are constantly seeking jobs. However, when there is a proposal that means that the unemployed really get a lot more jobs to look for, then you will not be there, and I think that is a great contradiction. Then there are all these reasons, among others.: Well, we run the risk that the unemployed will be looking for jobs that are in fact already occupied by the company. Yeah, it's possible they're doing it. This is already happening today. There are plenty of unemployed people who send in vain job applications, namely in industries where there are many about the offer, but not very many jobs. Then it is difficult to get the job, and there are of course enough situations where the company has already decided, and it is not most companies that are so fair that they write that they have a qualified candidate. But why should it stand in the way of increasing the opportunities for the unemployed to look for jobs? I really can't see that. No one can imagine what the legislation that would prevent an employer from having in the drawer exactly the applicant he would like to use would look like. So that can't be an argument in this context. So I guess I just have to say thank you for the debate, but I would certainly like to thank you for the fact that there has been a fairly clear dividing line here, isn't there? Because there have been several rapporteurs up and saying: well, we also want companies to work better with the job centres and that now the job centres have to do something more to find out where the jobs are. But when it comes to some concrete action, it is very difficult. We can just take it with the job centres: how are they going to find out where the jobs are? So they really have to have a strong upgrading in the staffing and that is obviously not what the government has in mind; on the contrary, when they go out and go to every company to see if there should now be a job available. That was, of course, a way to go, and we are positive about that. So we look forward to a proposal from the same parties rejecting this very simple proposal, which does not create more bureaucracy than a few clicks on the part of employers when they have to post a job ad. So I am really looking forward to something in cash coming up that makes the job centres really able to equip here, so that all the unemployed they have in the stables can have a chance to get out and get the job they want so badly.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423172854	With that, we thank Mr. Finn Sørensen. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Employment Committee. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423172923	We are opening the debate, and we are doing it again with the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423172933	Thank you. It is very appropriate that we deal with this motion for a resolution following on from B 122 on job vacancies, because the proposal has been made from the same point of view, namely that EU citizens should not take jobs from Danes. And that's why it's very appropriate for me to stand here. I am not the Secretary of State for Work Authorisations, but I am the Secretary of State for Employment Policy. I am not going to repeat the views which have just been discussed during the discussion of B 122, on growth in employment in Danes. However, as I have said quite clearly many times, it is not the case that EU citizens take jobs from Danes. On the contrary, the extra labour means that we have a strong economy and that is good for Danish society. I think, in many ways, that Mrs Laura Lindahl gave a very fine speech earlier, in which Mrs Laura Lindahl quite rightly said that when things are going well for companies, it is good for Danish society. One can of course get the impression that it is bad that there is growth in Denmark, and it certainly is not. I also note that the authors of the explanatory statement refer to an article from 2014. At that time, the Danes hit the employment bottom by a curve, and since then it has only gone up. Having said that, I fully agree with the part of the explanatory statement that we must take action against the gross exploitation of labour. Unfortunately, we see examples of this and we should not tolerate it. Do the examples of gross exploitation mean that there is a basis for introducing work permit requirements? This may sound attractive, but the problem is that a requirement for a work permit would make the situation worse for vulnerable workers. In my view, and in the view of the government, this would create a black labour market in which vulnerable workers would only become even more vulnerable. Following the enlargements in 2004 and 2007, we had the transitional rules in the so-called Eastern Agreement, where we called for what the proposers are now proposing. The Eastern Agreement was necessary to deal with immediate pressure, but it also created a breeding ground for an illegal labour market. The basis for an illegal labour market was removed when the Eastern Agreement was phased out. When we were able to introduce the Eastern Agreement with the requirements in question, it was due to the special transitional rules in the enlargement treaties, which means that under the normal rules of the Treaty there is no possibility of such a system being introduced. It would also in many ways undermine the internal market if we discriminated against by making it harder to hire EU citizens than to hire Danes. If you first have to apply for a work permit and so on, then there is no question of an internal market in the European Union in the essential sense. The same applies in the field of secondment. The motion for a resolution envisages that the requirement should also apply to posted workers, following an amendment to the Posting of Workers Directive. However, I believe that this will require a revision of the Treaty and, of course, the government will not be able to support it. EU citizens must not be discriminated against in terms of pay and working conditions. For migrant workers, that rule has always existed in the Treaty, and it is intended precisely to counter wage competition. For posted workers, the area has developed in case law and in the Posting of Workers Directive. Very recently, the principle of equal pay for equal work has been strengthened in the Posting of Workers Directive. The challenge is that, as I said earlier, we do not have a statutory minimum wage in Denmark. That is why we cannot send the Labour Inspectorate or the police to an employer who pays a low salary, but it is not the fault of the EU rules. It is because we have chosen to do so. We spend a lot of time in the EU defending the Danish model and explaining to our partners abroad what it means and why it works well. However, the most natural thing for other countries that want to achieve results themselves is to legislate for it, and this has also meant increased EU legislation in this area. We try to avoid new proposals that could affect the responsibilities of the parties in Denmark, and if they are made anyway, we try to adapt them to the best of our ability, so that they take account of the Danish model. In my time as Minister of Employment, we have among other things. to clarify the Posting of Workers Directive and that wage formation is a national matter, and we have received a special exception in the directive on transparent working conditions, which takes into account contractual models such as the Danish and Swedish models in particular. We have therefore successfully helped to get the Commission and other countries to take account of our model here in Denmark, but a desire to introduce work permits or other restrictions which are not currently possible under the Treaty will be seen by a large number of other countries as a welcome opportunity to discuss minimum wage in the European Union, and this will put the Danish model under further pressure. After all, what we have to do to deal with the specific challenges remains, for example, the exploitation of vulnerable workers. This requires concrete action here and now and not, I think, in the longer run to restrict freedom of movement within the European Union. The DA and FH have, of course, made a joint recommendation on wages in the transport sector. I'd like to sign for that. The government is studying their recommendations, and we will also come here later this month to meet again with DA and FH. Whether or not to be seen in other areas, I do not wish to comment today, but I would like to take the debate with the parties and the parties on how to resolve the dilemma. I myself set up a working group to look at possible initiatives following the television documentary called the Slavs in the construction industry. The working group shall, inter alia: consider ways to prosecute the perpetrators more effectively. In addition, case-law must be considered in relation to unfair pay and to the possibility of supporting vulnerable workers with legal aid. So, in order to make this clear, it will be a 'no' to the resolution by the government, but a 'yes' to discussing what we can do about the gross exploitation that can take place, unfortunately, of workers, and how we can be better at ensuring that this does not happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423173508	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423173510	Thank you. I should just like to correct the Minister: the Enhedslisten has no idea that EU citizens are taking jobs from the Danes. What is happening, and it is documented, also in the comments to the bill, is that Danish companies that cannot get it cheap enough when it comes to labour, systematically in the first 3-4 years of the crisis, fired 170,000 Danish employees and during the same period employed 40,000 Eastern workers for the one reason that they were cheap labour. That's Enhedslisten's view of it. It is not the citizens of the European Union who take the work, it is Danish companies that are completely systematically changing the workforce to get the cheapest. That's the way it is. Then I would ask the Minister to take a look at this proposal. It is true that it looks like something we have dealt with in the past, but there is an important difference, because what is being imposed on a government here is to work to change EU rules. Apparently, the minister doesn't. He won't work for it if I get it right. I really do not have an explanation for this, because if we are talking about third-country nationals, they cannot work in this country without a residence permit and a work permit. Why must there be a difference between third-country citizens and EU citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20190423173636	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423173638	Thank you. I think that we have explained this in the reply I gave to Mr Seligman. Finn Sørensen said that we think it is a good idea to have an internal market where there is also a free movement of labour. On the contrary, I see it as a strength that we can recruit employees from other EU countries who can help make Danish companies richer and in fact also make Danish society richer. I'm so glad that Mr. Knox... Finn Sørensen now says that is also what Enhedslisten thinks. I do not think that has been quite clear in all the debates in which I have participated.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423173711	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423173713	I do not know what the Minister has not understood from what we are saying. He will then have the opportunity to ask me that later when I come to the floor or he can get one of his rapporteurs to do so. I just note that when the Minister does not want to equate EU citizens with the way we treat third-country citizens, it is because the Minister is pleased that companies have the opportunity to do what they did in the first year of the crisis completely unhindered and to do what we can still see many examples of, of which the Minister will not deny, namely to abuse foreign labour to print wages and working conditions on the Danish labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423173759	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423173801	I agree with the issue of what Mr. Finn Sørensen says in the end that, unfortunately, there are still examples of places where people are not paid the salary they are going to receive, and therefore there is also a need for much more offensive control efforts across the authorities. After all, we have seen this just a short time ago that, unfortunately, there have again been examples of this in the public domain.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423173827	Thank you, Minister. The next in the series of speeches is Mr. Knox. Mattias Tesfaye as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423173849	We may not think about it every day, but the salaries and working conditions we know in Denmark are not a matter of course in most other European countries. In Germany, the trade union movement regarded it as a huge step forward that a few years ago it succeeded in obtaining a minimum wage of 8.5 euros per hour • 65 DKK. In Germany, it is called Arm trotz Arbeit, that is, that you are poor, despite being in employment. In England, it's called working poor. Whatever the term, it tells us something about a labour market that should not be our century. In Denmark you can be poor, but then you do not have a job, and if you are in work, you are not poor. As a starting point, employment and poverty are not linked and, of course, this must continue to be the case. Until spring 2004, this was not a discussion in Denmark either, but it has been since then. At that time the Danish labour market became open to Eastern European labour force and it has created a large number of problems which quickly got the common term social dumping. It includes underpayment, cheating on overtime and other matters normally governed by agreements, and includes breaches of legislation, e.g.: non-payment of holiday money, poor working environment or non-payment to the tax administration. Of course, the unfairly low wages must be combated, and there must be Danish pay in Denmark, but it is primarily our trade unions, our employers' organisations, that have to deal with it. However, the extensive breaches of Danish legislation, which cover both ignorance and outright cheating, are of course the responsibility of the authorities. Here in the Folketing we have a responsibility to support both the social partners and the authorities in their work to ensure a level playing field and competition in Danish workplaces. From 2004 to 2011, the Danish Parliament didn't take many initiatives to meet this responsibility, but from the financial laws from 2012 until today, money has been set aside for the police, the Labour Inspectorate, the tax administration and the immigration authorities, so that in cooperation they can strengthen control of foreign companies and employees in Denmark. That effort has now worked for seven years. The Social Democrats want this to be done on a permanent basis and to be strengthened. This is one of our main priorities. We also want a social protocol to be introduced into EU cooperation, which means that employees' rights must be given greater weight in the internal market, as well as a number of other concrete proposals to curb social dumping. We think this is the right way forward. Therefore, we cannot support the fact that Enhedslisten is now proposing a significant change to our entire handling of this issue. With the Enhedslisten's proposal, we will have an unnecessary bureaucratic model, and we cannot support that. Moreover, I do not think it will ever be possible to adopt it in Brussels, but that is a completely different talk. It is now 15 years since the borders were opened that is indeed on Wednesday and eastward enlargement has affected the Danish labour market, and for some employees the costs have been quite high, but at the same time we can also see that the Danish labour market model is stronger and more flexible than many might have thought. If we on the side of Christiansborg support this model, it is our opinion that we can maintain an organised labour market with decent wages, and there is therefore no need for dramatic changes, as was suggested the other day by the Prime Minister, or as is now proposed by the Enhedslisten. In those words, the Social Democrats will reject the proposal, and I should like to welcome the Radical Left and say that they also reject the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423174218	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423174221	Thank you. And thank you for the rapporteur's speech. After all, I am pleased that the Social Democratic Party is seeking fundamental changes to EU rules, which is, after all, to propose a social protocol. Fortunately, we agree on this, but I have to ask the rapporteur: why should it be easier to obtain a social protocol than to achieve the implementation of such a proposal as this? I simply do not understand that. I think it is equally difficult to get it implemented, because in both cases it will require unanimity among EU countries, which should not, however, prevent you from fighting for it if you think it is reasonable. But could the rapporteur not explain to me what is so terribly bureaucratic about this? In other words, this proposal merely seeks to strengthen the opportunities for trade unions to ensure that the foreign workers who are in this country work on equal terms with their Danish colleagues. That is what it is all about, in all its gripping simplicity. What is bureaucratic about it? I don't really see that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423174317	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423174317-2	Of course, the easiest thing is an assessment case. I agree with the rapporteur. But what makes sense does not seem to me to be debatable. In any case, I do not think there is any doubt about that. It is not sensible for all European employees who come to Denmark to apply for a work permit, which must be approved by the local collective labour union. It is a huge break with how we understand the internal market. I think we should also remember what the reflection of such a decision would be. It would be that Danes who have to look for work abroad could also be faced with the same restrictions, and that would be a step in the wrong direction. I think we should stick to the fact that the Danish labour market model has proved to be able to deal partly with east enlargement and that we know what it takes to ensure Danish pay and working conditions. It is a strengthened government effort that is about strengthening the organisations that have to deal with the labour market and not about building up unnecessary bureaucracy, where thousands of employees have to have their work permit approved in a local union.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423174425	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423174425-2	But then I do not really understand the rapporteur's position on the view of third-country nationals, because that is exactly the same thing, not exactly the same thing, which the trade union does not have in the rules in force the power that we are proposing for the trade union to have here, but the system is the same for third-country citizens: in order to work in this country they must apply for a residence and work permit. And the rapporteur has not criticized or opposed this. Why should there not be equality approximately? Now what we are proposing here is not nearly as far-reaching as it is for third-country citizens. But why should there not be almost equality? The purpose is the same. The reason why you have a system of work and residence permits is that, as the Danish state and Danish society, you have to have the opportunity to make sure that those who work in this country work on equal terms. That is what this is all about. Why do we have to make a difference?
ParlaMint-DK_20190423174525	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423174526	Yes, but we do not have an internal market with China. In other words, we have an internal market with other European countries, and part of that agreement is that labour can move across borders and companies can move across borders. Instead of building up this kind of mirage, I think that it would strengthen us all and the effort for Danish wages in Denmark if we concentrated on what we know works, namely that the authorities enforce the law and that we have organisations that are able to draw up agreements and enforce the agreements. That is what we should be focusing on. This would be a huge break with the functioning of the entire internal market, and thus a crucial cornerstone of EU cooperation, which would be a step away from the European Union and not a step towards making the European labour market work.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423174614	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. Claus Kvist Hansen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423174624	Thank you. Over the last several years too little has been done in the fight against social dumping, despite the fact that, to put it mildly, it has not shrunk on warnings. In the vicinity of 300,000 foreign citizens work at present. in Denmark and most hopefully under proper conditions, that is, under Danish conditions of pay and employment or something similar. However, the media now reports almost weekly, or at least monthly, about cases in which foreign workers live and work in poor conditions • drivers who live for months in trucks to DKK 15. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations. Despite the fact that the problem is not a new one, too little has happened. Yes, the unions are fighting a brave battle, and yes, the employees of the Labour Inspectorate, the police, the tax administration, etc. Trying to do something to the best of your ability. However, in the view of the Danish People's Party, the fight against social dumping cannot be won alone with subsequent control. No, the root of the nettle must be addressed: the EU rules on free and totally unhindered movement of workers. As the Danish People's Party has pointed out several times, we need to move more towards a controlled movement, where it is Denmark that decides how many people come to the country to work, in which industries and for how long. The resolution before us does not go that far, but it is a step in the right direction, because it raises a kind of preventive filter even before the problems arise. So yes to demands for prior work permits for EU and EEA citizens. However, with regard to who will approve the employment contracts, we need to have a subsequent dialogue on that issue. Because in DF we are concerned about how such a process of approval can be carried out in practice, so that the right to the free choice of trade union and collective agreement can be respected. Nor does the Danish People's Party believe that it should necessarily be a union that has a monopoly on determining whether a contract of employment meets the concept of orderly relations. But if the proposers really take the fight against social dumping seriously, I am sure that in this area we can find a common understanding.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423174840	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423174842	Thank you, and thank you for your comments; also thank you for the fact that the rapporteur has actually read the proposal and can see that it is not quite as far-reaching as the Danish People's Party would have liked, but that it can serve the view that the rapporteur at least says he shares with the Enhedslisten, namely that we must have made an effective effort against social dumping. If we can find each other, I have my doubts, because it is of course no coincidence that we write that it should be left to the contractual union to approve the contract of employment. It is, of course, because we have a view that it is the party to the labour market which, as with its collective bargaining coverage, should make that approval so that there is a guarantee that wages and conditions of employment are in line with the contractual conditions. There doesn't necessarily have to be an agreement. It's up to the union to decide, but it must at least have the opportunity to assess whether that is the case. We might as well tone clean flags, so I'm gonna have to say that we're not gonna change that part. This does not mean that we do not listen to what the Danish People's Party is proposing, just as we would like to listen to what all sorts of others are suggesting, but it is just to confess pure color in relation to that point of the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423175000	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423175001	It was, of course, a remark made by the rapporteur, but I have never been in doubt for a second now that the rapporteur and his party are tones of pure flags. Let me just put it that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423175015	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. Hans Andersen as rapporteur for the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423175015-2	Thank you. In my rapporteur's speech to B 122 about employers' job posting obligations, I started by pointing out that Enhedslisten has a premise that our companies are evil and greedy, and that foreign labour is taking jobs from Danes. And that is exactly the same position that the Enhedslisten takes as its starting point in this motion for a resolution. And let me just say that I disagree vertically, and that is why I do not want to say so much more than two things: firstly, that we must, of course, combat social dumping. I also get disappointed, angry and sad when I see Danish employers underpaying and installing vulnerable people in poor conditions, because there are stingy vessels on the Danish labour market. This kind of thing doesn't belong in Denmark. That is why we in the Left have helped to open the debate on what it takes to do even more to combat social dumping. But the second is that the answer is absolutely not to undermine the internal market in the European Union. As I also mentioned in my previous rapporteur's speech, free movement contributes many billions of dollars a year to the Danish Treasury. Furthermore, the proposal must also be regarded as requiring a Treaty amendment, and neither can the Left support it. So in other words, the Left cannot support this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423175151	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then we have come to Mrs Laura Lindahl as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423175208	Thank you for that, President. In the Liberal Alliance, we do not support the Enhedslisten's proposal either. One thing is all this about the Treaty: you can dwell on that, and that's fair enough, but I really think it's more interesting to put it aside and say what your attitude is to this, even if you could change it. And even if it were possible to change it and we were not bound by the Treaty, we in the Liberal Alliance would not support the proposal. We think precisely that the single market and free movement within the European Union are the foundation of the Community we have in the European Union, and that is the strength of the European Union. I can find many things about the European Union that I am not happy about, but precisely the internal market and free movement are the project that we support when it comes to the European Union. This proposal will be a major barrier to free movement, and that is the main reason why we in the Liberal Alliance do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423175319	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. Torsten Gejl as rapporteur for the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423175330	Thank you. The alternative does not support the Enhedslisten's proposal that we should work for the EU to work for EU and EEA citizens to have a work permit in Denmark. We are happy to combat social dumping and we were pleased to support an earlier proposal from the Enhedslisten, which would oblige the government to put forward legislative proposals for a general law on chain liability so that main contractors and main service providers are made financially responsible for the negligence of subcontractors and subcontractors respectively in terms of public obligations and obligations towards the employee. In the alternative, we think this is an obstacle to the free movement of workers, and we are in favour of this. We know that some companies are taking advantage of the opportunities to use the opportunity to do social dumping. However, we do not think that we should make it more difficult for workers to find work around the European Union. We would rather place responsibility on employers, who are the ones who do social dumping, in other words social dumping. In fact, we also find it very interesting to work for a social protocol in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423175447	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423175448	Thank you. But here too, I would like to welcome the fact that we agree to fight for this social protocol. I think that is a good thing, and that is one of the tools we need. I would also like to acknowledge that the rapporteur reiterates his support for the proposal on chain liability. There, too, we are far from a majority in the Folketing, but it is good to have some allies. I'm glad. Thank you. Now the rapporteur says that he will leave responsibility to the employers. So I just ask: does the rapporteur think that employers have been good at shouldering that responsibility?
ParlaMint-DK_20190423175521	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423175523	No, I will not leave responsibility to the employers. That's the last thing I want. I want to introduce instruments to combat social dumping that affect employers, for example. chain liability.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423175537	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423175538	Yeah, but this is gonna hit the employers. It will affect employers in such a way that they cannot, as they can today, import Eastern European labour force or labour force from other EU countries completely unhindered at any price down to DKK 0. It's an hour. That is what this proposal is intended to prevent and which the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party had actually caught. This is a proposal that prevents the problems from arising because we get them taken before they arise, namely by giving the contractual union an opportunity to approve the employment contract so that it is ensured that the employment is in line with normal Danish wage and working conditions. That is the purpose of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423175632	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423175633	Yes, and the purpose and purpose of the proposal we think are excellent. We simply believe that workers will also be affected in the way that you are about to have a work permit • as far as I can imagine, a relatively difficult exercise, at least for someone. There we would actually rather have workers enjoy rights and that it would not be harder to be free moveable workers in the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423175700	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. I do not see the SF's rapporteur in the Chamber, so we move on to Mr. Anders Johansson as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423175711	Thank you. Nor can we in the Conservative People's Party support the motion for a resolution tabled by the Enhedslisten. The Enhedslisten wants the government to work to change EU rules so that Denmark can demand that the employment of EU and EEA citizens in this country is subject to the issue of a work permit, which must then be approved by the collective labour unions. Freedom of movement within the EU's borders and the labour force is one of the pillars of EU cooperation. It is also one of the pillars of the prosperity that we have in this country. Denmark would be significantly poorer if we were not part of the internal market where we can trade and buy and sell and work throughout the European Union. We must be careful about this, and we must safeguard it, perhaps especially at a time when there are many easy proposals and everything is going on. The workforce from the other EU countries is not about something being taken from the Danes. In fact, it is about creating a greater value, creating even more jobs, and that is basically very good. In fact, there are hundreds of thousands of Danish jobs that depend on us being part of the internal market. And under no circumstances do we have any intention of undermining the freedom of movement that we have within the EU's borders in terms of being able to work freely. So, of course, we cannot support this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423175844	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423175858	Thank you for the floor, President. Perhaps, for the sake of those who are watching out there, you should repeat what this proposal is actually about, because it may have disappeared a little in the speeches of the previous rapporteurs. The simple point is that the Danish Parliament requires the government to work to amend EU rules so that Denmark can demand that the employment of EU/EEA citizens in this country is conditional on the authorities issuing a work permit. The condition for the work permit must be that there is a contract of employment approved by the trade union having the agreement for the area concerned. In order to inform those who may not be as familiar with all these rules on foreigners' access to work in Denmark, I would just like to say that this, apart from the last, which some would call a tightening-up, is the union which, like getting the power to approve whether the contract of employment is in order, is exactly what it is when we talk about third-country nationals, and this has been the case for many, many years. This has also been the case for citizens of the EU/EEA countries before we joined the European common market, for it was one of the cornerstones of the European common market: what was called the free movement of workers. That sounds good, and we are all in favour of it in principle. The problem is, of course, that it has been shown that the way in which the EU rules operate makes it possible to prevent companies from using foreign labour to print wages and working conditions and to give foreign workers some often quite shameful conditions to work under virtually no longer present. What we can be allowed to do is to walk and, if we can say so, try to patch up the problems a little after they have arisen. I will come back to that in a moment. But that is what the proposal is about. This also means that it is not what some people are trying to imply, that is, that this is done to prevent foreigners from working in Denmark. It is not, and the rules on third-country nationals are not designed to prevent third-country nationals from working in Denmark. The rules are made to ensure that when foreigners work in this country, they work on equal terms with those who live here already. That's what this is all about. Why is this so necessary? Yes, I have tried to say it a few times to the rapporteurs, but it was just as it was; nobody would really relate to it. I will probably have to repeat it without great optimism, in relation to whether it is leaking into the right places. After all, it is a fact that the EU rules on free movement were exploited by Danish companies in the first year of the crisis. These are the years from 2009 to 2013. Danish companies took advantage of EU rules on the free movement of workers to sack 170,000 employees in a number of vulnerable industries such as construction, transport, hotel, restaurant, etc. and during the same period employ 40,000 East workers. We have the references in the comments on the motion for a resolution. It is in a nutshell what the EU's rules on the free movement of workers are about. That's what it's all about. Then you can choose more or less far-reaching tools to stem it, and you can also • and we agree with some parties here in the Danish Parliament on that, and we are happy to introduce sharper tools at home, and we do not need to ask the European Union about that. We can introduce rules on chain liability and working clauses into all public contracts, to mention some important measures. We can do a lot to clean up the problems created by EU rules, and we must do so too. We can do much more than we do. We can also fight for it in relation to the European Union. And there we are glad that we have got the Social Democratic Party, and indeed the Danish People's Party too, probably a majority in the Danish Parliament to support that we have to change the EU rules on this point, because that is what the demand for a social protocol is about. After all, it is a question of changing EU rules, at least the interpretation of them, so that workers' rights will be higher than the rules on free movement and economic freedoms. And this proposal is just another part of what then brings with it the great advantage that we can prevent the problems from arising, rather than having to go and clean them up afterwards. Then there are some who say that the workers are getting hit by this. I really don't understand. Yes, it becomes a little more difficult in that they have to apply for a job, and then they have to have a job on hand, and then they ask for a work and a residence permit. However, this proposal does not change the rules regarding access for EU citizens to work in Denmark. It's not a restriction on that link. It is, in fact, a very mild intervention in freedom of movement, which only concerns the situation where the EU/EEA citizen gets a job in Denmark, that is to say gets a job on hand. There the trade union must be given the opportunity to check whether wage and working conditions are now in order. I cannot understand why this is so difficult. I understand that it is very difficult to accept for the government, the bourgeois wing, the Liberal Alliance and so on, because they are of course pleased with the unbridled and unlimited freedom that employers have to take advantage of free movement. But even for those parties which otherwise agree with the Enhedslisten and recognise the problems of social dumping far along the way, and where we also agree with a little different partners, the Social Democratic Party is not very far off when it comes to introducing chain responsibilities and such things, even for those parties that recognise the issues and want to defend the interests of the trade union movement and the workers' movement, when one comes to such a very simple and unbureaucratic proposal as this one. For it is, of course, described in the comments how it can be administered. In conclusion, then, we also lack an answer from all the rapporteurs who are very strongly opposed to this, on the simple question: why should there be such a huge difference between the way we treat job seekers from third countries and EU/EEA citizens? Then we'll just get the explanation that it's because we have the internal market, and then it's like it's all running in circles. That is what we have seen, and I actually thought that the Social Democrats had come to that conclusion. The President of the Social Democratic Party has at least said several times and completely incomprehensible that the problem with the EU rules on freedom of movement is that economic freedoms, that is, the right to the free movement of workers, capital, goods and services, have taken precedence over workers' rights, and that is as precisely as it can be said at all, and the Enhedslist fully agrees with that. We have also been saying this for so many years, but we are glad that the President of the Socialist Party has reached that conclusion. And then we agree that we will fight to get this social protocol. It then requires unanimity, so it is not something that lies right on the flat hand. When we then come up with another proposal that we should fight for a change in EU rules, so that Danish trade unions have a better tool than they have today to ensure a level playing field, then you lean and beat seven crosses and say: 'Well, that is quite contrary to the idea of the internal market'. To this we have to say that this is true, because the idea of this single market and the free movement of workers is that employers should be free to exploit the wage differences between European workers to push wages down in an ever-decreasing spiral, and there is this proposal, we believe, a good little tool that could make Danish trade unions stronger in that struggle.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423180738	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423180750	The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423180803	Thank you. After all, the motion for a resolution we are debating today focuses on a central issue in relation to the order of conditions in the labour market, namely how best to ensure the working environment in the country's construction sites. The government has said this many times before: we do not accept a labour market that compromises on the safety of construction sites or at other jobs for that matter or where, moreover, the rules on working conditions are being cheated. I would like to emphasise that it is a high priority for the government to ensure orderly conditions in the Danish labour market. After all, we have confirmed this with a number of financial agreements and also the latest agreement for 2019. A total of 156 million has been set aside for this purpose. kr. to the effort for arranged relationships in 2019. The agreement means that in 2019 the Labour Inspectorate can strengthen its efforts for orderly labour market conditions. At the same time, we also want to ensure a more stable framework for action in order to be taken in the future, where joint action by the authorities is absolutely central. That is why we are also currently discussing the future work with the parties of the Danish Parliament in connection with the ongoing negotiations on working conditions. The government's primary focus is how we can determine a continued strong and multi-annual effort for orderly conditions in the period after 2019. One thing is economics, but it is of course also important to see whether we can do things better and more wisely than we are doing today. That is why I think it is important to emphasise, as the Committee of Experts has also pointed out for that matter, that we also need to look at how to improve the performance of the working environment without necessarily being something that is not related to the economy. For me, it's both-and. You can both strengthen the economy, but you can also make things smarter. I fully agree with Enhedslisten that ensuring a better working environment in the construction industry is extremely important. Unfortunately, the construction industry is one of the places where there is the greatest risk of accidents at work, and we know that it can go wrong for those who work there. There are many serious accidents, including fatal accidents. Having said that, I do not believe that the introduction of an ID card in the construction industry is a solution. A proposal for an ID card is not new either, and the resolution is, as is also apparent from the proposal itself, a re-submission of an earlier proposal from 2014. An initiative on a compulsory ID card has already been the subject of a wide range of reflections and analyses under changing governments, without being able to identify the most appropriate model. In the analyses carried out, it has not been possible to draw a clear conclusion on the value of ID cards in other countries that have ID cards. Major analyses have been carried out in the past, including: has gathered experience from countries that have introduced ID cards in the construction industry without a clear conclusion on the value of the card. Economic calculations have also been made of what it will cost to introduce an ID card in Denmark. Calculations from 2014 showed that the total costs associated with the establishment of the precisely model presented by Enhedslisten would be around 134 million. kr. and about 50 million. kr. in annual operating costs. The estimate today would be higher than in 2014, as employment is also currently higher in the construction industry. In addition, the results of the major analyses showed that it was difficult to identify an appropriate model for the implementation of this mandatory safety card in construction in Denmark. In addition, both the Danish Labour Inspectorate and the Danish Tax Office have so far considered that the authorities already have the necessary means and means to require information and identification of persons on the site. So in other words, the government is not going to support this proposal. Like the former SR government, the government finds it difficult to identify an appropriate model for introducing this mandatory map in construction, but I would like to stress that the government is certainly open to looking at and also discuss how we can help to take new initiatives to combat social dumping and thus also ensure orderly conditions on the Danish labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423181228	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423181233	Thank you, Minister. I was not really able to find out from the Minister's speech, where it is the shoe printer, why the Minister cannot support this proposal. Is it for reasons of principle because it is believed that there is no reason at all to have such an ID card or a security card, we could also call it, now we call it an ID card, but the meaning is the same? Is it for reasons of principle, or is it because we have not found the right tune right now? Or is it the money that plagues the minister? Could I have such a clearer and clearer statement as to what the Minister really has against this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20190423181311	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423181313	Indeed, I am very much leaning on what the former Socialist-led government also achieved, namely that the results of this major analysis showed that it was difficult to point to what I said in my speech, namely an appropriate model for implementing this mandatory safety card. And when you can't do it, it's a good argument for not making an ID if you can't figure out how to implement it. It is certainly no secret that I am not in favour of making symbolism policy. If you do something, it should also have an effect. That is what the analysis has shown and which I also believe the Enhedslisten has discussed with the then government.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423181351	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423181352	Thank you. However, as the Minister can read in the comments on our proposal, what divided the parties at the time of the negotiations was not the actual practical model. It was a slightly more difficult question, namely whether self-employed people, who are called arms and leg companies on construction sites, should also be included. It was a political lack of clarity, I would say, because it was not a dispute of principle either, because that debate ended with the idea of digging something deeper into it by the then Minister of Employment in relation to the question of whether self-employed people should also be included in it. That is where we stood, and suddenly there were parliamentary elections, and then the current government abandoned the plans for an ID card.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423181447	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423181449	Thank you for your information, which I have no reason to attack in this way, since I myself was not part of those negotiations. And it is true that the present government does not believe that, on this basis and with the knowledge we have now, we can introduce an ID card that is in line with the investment as it may be.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423181517	Thank you, Minister. Then we move on to Mr. Mattias Tesfaye as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423181524	The construction industry is an excellent place to work, but it is also dangerous jobs, just as it is, unfortunately, a sector that is challenged by social dumping from companies that post underpaid Eastern workers in this country. Therefore, it is also quite reasonable to discuss how we can tighten controls and strengthen safety in the industry. An ID card can be a very good idea in this respect, and we would very much like to discuss this with both the authors of Enhedslisten, the other parties of the Folketing and the social partners and, of course, also with the government. A map for everyone in the construction industry to be presented to the authorities will make it easier for the immigration authorities, the Labour Inspectorate, the tax authorities and the police to enforce the legislation, and it will strengthen day-to-day security work at the construction sites if it is easy and low-practical to document certificates to work with e.g. scaffolding or dangerous substances. Twenty years ago, we would probably not have supported such an ID card simply because it would, of course, cost a little money to introduce it and also mean a little more bureaucracy and because it would not match the gain. However, after eastward enlargement in 2004, we must face up to the fact that the labour market has changed. There is no room for naiveness, because there are people who deliberately violate the law and prevent the work of the authorities, and unfortunately that is the back of the coin when we talk about the free movement of workers and services. There is a need to tighten up controls here. However, the motion for a resolution states that the ID card will enter into force as early as 1 September, in other words in a few months' time, just as there are a number of details about the card which we believe deserve more detailed consideration than is possible in this Chamber when dealing with a motion for a resolution. We want thorough experience to be gained from other EU countries that have already introduced the ID card so that we avoid making the same mistakes as others. We want the card to be digitally supported so that no new one should be issued every time a person has taken a new AMU course around, for example. epoxy or something. We want the proposal to be drawn up in a closer dialogue with the social partners in construction. We want the funding to be clarified and that it has been found. We want the legal discussions on the roles of the self-employed in construction to be in place. This is where we were shipwrecked last time we were discussing it. In short, we want a more thorough and more thorough discussion. That is why we are actually calling on the Enhedslisten and the other parties of the Danish Parliament to meet in the Employment Committee and to draw up a joint report which stresses that the Danish Parliament is in favour of introducing an ID card and instructs the government to draw up a concrete model which we can negotiate jointly. I should also like to say here from the Radical Left that it is also an approach that they support.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423181817	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423181820	Thank you, and thank you for the way in which this is being handled. Whether or not we can agree to the model with a report has to come up with a test. That depends on what you can get written in it. So I would ask the rapporteur to make a clear political statement regarding the further work on this. It is true that what divided us the last time we negotiated under the RSSF administration was out at that time, I do not remember, but otherwise it is less important in that context, because we agreed, and we made an agreement that we should have such an ID card or a security card, and what it was stranded on for the time being was the question of the role of the self-employed, i.e. whether they should also be included in it. I would therefore like to know what the rapporteur thinks about this issue. Is the rapporteur prepared to include the self-employed in such a safety card?
ParlaMint-DK_20190423181925	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423181926	Yes, we have not at any time left the idea that there should be an ID card in the building, and we also believe that it would be sensible if we could find a model which also includes self-employed people who do work on construction sites. Otherwise we risk ending up in a situation where more Eastern workers in Denmark will act as false self-employed in order to avoid being included in this. But now we are also four years older than we were when the negotiations were shipwrecked last time, and that is why there should also be more experience from the other European countries that have introduced an ID card with some different models. That is why we believe that the most sensible and constructive approach to this issue is to have a new government elected, to sit around the table and to analyse what has worked and what has not worked in the other countries, and then to negotiate some new measures to strengthen the fight against social dumping, and if we can find a model and funding around the ID card that can work, then that would be very sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423182028	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423182033	Thank you. It is clear, then, that we will not be opposed to digging again in relation to what the experience was. However, one of the reasons why we went ahead with this at the time was precisely that there was quite good experience from other countries. Then, of course, we shall see if they have proved to be bad later on. That's good for us. However, on this issue of funding, the rapporteur agrees that it cannot be money that is lacking in this area. After all, we state that, since we have the Enhedslisten and the then government, with the Social Democratic leadership and a Social Democratic Minister for Employment, the tax administration has turned up a great deal of money through its supervisory activities. So it should not be funding that stands in the way of us introducing such a security card.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423182125	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423182127	No. Now I understand from the Minister that the immediate assessment by the Ministry that was made a few years ago was that it would cost 134 million. kr. to introduce it here and 50 million. kr. in continuous operation, and if it is possible to create a proper, low-bureaucratic, digitally supported ID card that will really work, then I am sure that this will strengthen both the fight against social dumping and the general security of construction sites, and it will be worth the money. However, although it is worth the money, we cannot support motions for resolutions which have not been financed, even though the amounts are relatively small. Therefore, our starting point will also be that we should gather around a report which indicates some political intentions, and then it will then be possible for it to remain after the elections, whatever the outcome of the elections, and help to commit the parties to work further for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423182216	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Claus Kvist Hansen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423182223	Thank you. The motion for a resolution here concerns the introduction of ID cards for construction workers. As the proposal is described, there is a strong focus on ensuring the employees a better working environment and preventing accidents at work, and of course the Danish People's Party considers this to be a very commendable purpose, no doubt about it. Another focus, however, is that the proposal is another tool in the fight against social dumping. As with the previous motion for a resolution here today, it is perhaps worth refreshing that social dumping is a relatively new concept in the Danish dictionary and that all news is not necessarily good news. For social dumping, many Danes have cost their jobs and left even more with a concern to be outgrown by foreign workers, and basically the villain is the EU as well as the free and unbridled movement of labour. It can't be repeated too often, even if I do. It has become particularly bad since the enlargement of the East. The Danish People's Party worked in detail on eastward enlargement and our worst fears have been trumped several times. Are there examples of employers finding it difficult to find Danish labour? Yeah, sure, and wouldn't it be okay in such exceptional situations to temporarily recruit foreign workers? Yes, of course, but when that happens, it must be quite obvious that the employment must be done in accordance with Danish pay and employment conditions. By providing employees in the construction industry with a special ID card that ensures a number of conditions as detailed in the motion for a resolution, we have come a long way in the fight against the undergrowth of workers from the EU and the rest of the world who work under illegal or totally unfair working conditions and who permanently pressure Danish workers. By making it physically clear to colleagues and partners on the construction site who are employed on proper conditions and who are not, I think we are going to get rid of a great deal of social dumping. It seems that this is also believed in a number of other countries, and at home several municipalities have already introduced compulsory use of ID cards for work at municipal construction sites, and in Horsens I have even helped to decide for myself. It is worrying that the problem of migrant workers who do not comply with Danish pay and working conditions seems to be increasing, and I hope that it will give thought to the fact that the EU-worshiping parties with the free movement of workers have created a situation in which we need to take tough action with regulatory control and inventive proposals such as the one before us in order to maintain tolerable conditions. But when, unfortunately, this is the case, yes, that is what we have to do. The Danish People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423182503	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. Hans Andersen as rapporteur for the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423182513	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that I certainly share the concern that lies behind the Enhedslisten resolution, a concern about the well-being of employees around the country's construction sites. In the Left, together with the government, we have a strong focus on improving the working environment, not least in the construction industry, where we see too many accidents at work, and we absolutely must take this very seriously. That is why we have also provided funds to ensure orderly labour market conditions through a number of financial agreements. We have also set up an expert group which has looked at the whole work environment, and this has resulted in a number of recommendations that we are discussing in the working environment committee. Then, too, we have successfully changed the method of supervision in the construction industry, so that supervision is made more accessible to the places where it is needed. After all, there is no doubt that we must keep our eyes on ensuring orderly conditions, not least in the construction industry. Having said that, I doubt that such an ID is a sensible and the best solution, and that is not because it has not been tried. As we have heard here today, there are previous governments who have worked on it, but I suppose the assessment has also been that it is a relatively expensive measure to introduce and that it can at least be bureaucratic. So does the effect also measure up to the costs it wants to introduce such an ID card? That is the question we are asking in the Left. So, although we share the ambition to ensure orderly conditions in the construction industry, we do not at first sight believe that this is the best solution, and that is why we are not in the mood today to say that the Left is voting in favour of the resolution as it stands here today, but we would like to discuss things in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423182726	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423182731	Thank you. Of course, I am insanely optimistic, so I am putting a lot into the rapporteur's statement that, as it stands today, the rapporteur cannot support it. No, I don't. I know the Left. But I will take that as a slightly positive indication that one is willing to look at it in committee. Then we'll see what's in it about looking at it. However, would the rapporteur not confirm that such an ID card or security card, as one might also call it, to emphasise that it is the working environment, we must lift here then will facilitate the control efforts of the authorities when they are visiting construction sites? Will the rapporteur not confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20190423182813	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423182818	That may be true. Well, I do not have enough insight into the technique of introducing such an ID card to say that it will completely and with 100% certainty facilitate control. What matters is that what you see on the ID cards is right. So you could ask that question. But maybe.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423182847	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423182851	It is clear that everything can be defrauded, unfortunately. After all, man is a fragile vessel, and there are probably examples of it in all kinds of areas of legislation. So that cannot in itself be an argument. But if the rapporteur is now looking at the things that need to be disclosed on this map, then there is such a elementary thing as the name of the cardholder and some data that shows the identity of the cardholder, and certainly as important the identity of the company. There have sometimes been problems when the Factory Inspectorate has been looking at the construction sites to find out at all what kind of people they are dealing with: Who has hired them? Who is responsible for their being on the construction site, and who is also responsible for ensuring that working conditions are in order? That is, of course, the whole point of introducing such an ID card, and of course it must be a government-run and authorised card so that it cannot be called into question by the validity of it, and I would just like to ask the rapporteur again: would the rapporteur not admit that if we could now have such a card and we get through all the middle bills that some would like to have with us now, and that is fine, it would be a very good tool for the tax authorities, police and labour inspectorates who are out to check whether the laws and regulations of the country are now being respected by everyone?
ParlaMint-DK_20190423183008	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423183011	I always think it is sensible to consider what tools we have in the toolbox to limit social dumping and combat social dumping, and this is a tool that Enhedslisten then proposes today with such an ID card. It must always be compared to the bureaucracy that affects ordinary law-abiding companies in Denmark, which, moreover, we want to grow and create wealth. That is the balance we have to strike, and I hope that we can find it, and I hope that we will also find it in the forthcoming committee work, where we will have some of the reservations I have mentioned here today, but also some of the reservations mentioned by some of the other parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423183051	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is Mrs Laura Lindahl as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423183058	Thank you. After all, this is a debate that has been held several times. I was there to see the rapporteur's speeches from last time. I was not in the Folketing, the last time this proposal had been made by Mr. Finn Sørensen and Enhedslisten, but I was able to read the speeches and the debate, and they revolved a lot about the same thing as today: people support the intention, but it seems, no matter who has the government, that you end up in the same place. In the Liberal Alliance, we do not support intention. We don't think an ID is sensible. When we look at the studies that have been done, it has been difficult to come up with a clear conclusion on what the value of that ID is. Both the Danish Labour Inspectorate and the Danish Tax Administration have also assessed whether you have the necessary legal provisions and whether you have the possibility of collecting information and identification from people on a construction site. They therefore consider that they already have the tools, as the Minister also mentioned. So this suggests that with an ID card proposed here, there is a risk of significant financial costs and some administratively troublesome costs, without knowing whether this will lead to any added value at all. Against this backdrop alone, we think that this is a bad idea and we do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423183251	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl as rapporteur for the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423183253	Well, we're of a completely different opinion. Well, we think it's a great idea to introduce an ID card into the construction industry. We are ready to enter into the work on concrete implementation. We are curious about what experience there may be from other countries and how we can use them. We are interested in finding a solution that also includes the self-employed, which did not succeed in 2015 • it was before we entered. And we are interested in finding out what it should look like in concrete terms, i.e. how it should look, for example. will be updated with the new, relevant courses etc. So we are in the alternative interested in finding the solutions that are necessary for this map to get its feet on, thereby supporting the alternative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423183337	Thank you to the rapporteur. I do not see the SF's rapporteur in the Chamber, so we move on to Mr. Anders Johansson as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423183347	Thank you. The Enhedslisten proposes, with the motion for a resolution, to require the Government to submit a legislative proposal which, with effect from 1 September 2019, introduces a mandatory security training ID card, etc. applicable to employees in the construction industry, including holders of sole proprietors. On the Conservative side, I would like to say that we support the intentions on a number of points, namely that of supporting that there must be fixed conditions in Danish workplaces. We need to be aware of the working environment and the safety of construction sites, but we basically do not believe that the solution is this ID card that Enhedslisten proposes. We do not believe that this is what is needed in order to create the order of things. As the Minister and several of the rapporteurs have already mentioned, studies have been carried out in the past on the impact of this, and it has not really been possible to point out that this is clearly what underpins the judicial cooperation that is taking place. On the other hand, we know that it will be a relatively expensive investment, it will be a relatively expensive effort, and projected at prices today it will cost around 160 million. kr. plus the annual cost of running this ID card. In any case, it is important that we consider whether this is the most effective way of spending the money. So we certainly cannot support the motion for a resolution because we simply do not think that the investment that lies in it is in line with the effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423183524	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423183529	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. It is just to understand the Conservatives' statement: that is a clear rejection of the proposal. Is that how it's supposed to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20190423183534	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423183536	That's how it's supposed to be understood, yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423183538	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. And then we have come to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr President. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423183546	Thank you. It is, of course, the day of good intentions today, I must promise, at least for my part, in relation to the last three proposals. Here, too, one can hardly get to each other in terms of commending the intentions. I note, however, that there is something more comprehensible when it comes to implementing the intentions in the form of support, in whole or in part, for this specific proposal. So I would like to thank the Danish People's Party and the alternative for a clear support for the proposal, knowing that there is, of course, a lot to work with if you are to realise such a thing. I would also like to say a clear word of thanks to the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, who brought out something that I would call support in principle. And I was particularly pleased with the announcement that, in the rapporteur's view, self-employed businesses, i.e. sole proprietors, should also be included in such a card. Then I took note of a rift and it will be interesting to see when we get to the committee work whether it is a real crack in the armor of the enemy, that of the government parties, because there was a completely blank rejection from the Conservative and Liberal Alliance, but Mr. Hans Andersen from the Left thought that one would like to look at it in the committee work. I did not see this as a rejection of principle. If that is the way it should be understood, it would be nice if the rapporteur were to make a brief comment to inform me that I have been overly optimistic if I thought there was anything to be built on in the Left in this connection. Then, of course, I would also like to thank you for the debate. I really think that the speeches have been good in that I hope that those who have listened to the debate have got an impression of what this is all about. But otherwise I can repeat quite briefly that what this is all about is that we should have an ID card, you could also call it a security card, in the construction industry, which everyone working on construction sites should wear. That's the point. And that card must indicate the name of the cardholder, the date of birth, which must be a picture of the cardholder, the cardholder's signature, a card number and the name of the company or one-man business. Then we have added some additional things that are important when we talk about the authority's ability to check, namely that registration with the tax administration, RUT, social security, occupational injury insurance and possibly occupational insurance cover should also be shown in this card, which, by its very nature, must become an electronic card. And then we would also like the map to provide information on their training, continuing training, safety training of at least one day's duration and then the duration of their validity. Then it must be a card issued by a public authority. It must be implemented in cooperation with the social partners. We are already in agreement on this, I can inform you. Mattias Tesfaye on, of course this must be taken into account and the tools already developed by the social partners in this area must be taken into account, for example. the training card of the construction industry. The funny thing is that we, as Parliament and as authorities, are behind on this front, because the companies have already realised that there is a need for a clear and clear identification of who is actually on construction sites. The large companies have already introduced something like this to some extent. Then you could say, 'Well, then we don't have to do anything on the part of the Folketing.' That's the one, you might say, excuse we usually get. But that would be wrong, because it does not necessarily provide the best tools for regulatory control. There we need a map issued by a state authority but, of course, drawn up in cooperation with the social partners. What's the point? Yes, it is primarily to ensure that the authorities are given a much better tool in terms of enforcing a good working environment and enforcing health and safety legislation, but of course also the other rules relating to the operations of foreign companies here in Denmark, in other words, in relation to the tax authorities, in relation to the police for the employment of illegal labour, to mention some other issues, which are also part of regulatory control. That is why we also want the map to contain these training requirements, so it is clearly documented that they have the necessary training to operate on a construction site. So we can see nothing but that this will be a very good tool for the authorities and, for that matter, for the companies too, because I think that we often hear from large Danish companies operating in the construction industry that they have an interest in there being arranged conditions, otherwise they will have to listen to this constant criticism that they are abusing foreign labour, that the legislation is not being complied with, etc. It is perhaps not all the large companies that care about it, but some of them have a strong interest in it, and their organisations at least express it. That is why such a tool will be important and it will clearly contribute to a better response to the part of social dumping in the whole area of health and safety at work. So that's what it's all about. And I would like to thank you for the more up-to-date debate we have had on this. Then there's the business. Well, the figures mentioned by the Minister surprise me. It's possible there's something I missed. I have been in the Folketing long enough to forget what I might have been presented to a number of years ago. But I do not think I have heard these figures before that it should cost 135 million. kr., but we can clarify that. We have to ask the Minister a question about it so that we can figure out how those calculations are made. Because when I have been back and looked at the papers and calculations we worked on in the negotiations with the then government, they were quite different amounts. However, regardless of whether it is amounts of the order of magnitude mentioned by the Minister, I really do not think that funding can be a problem when you look at the fact that the tax authorities have regulated it and therefore collected a net revenue of about. 704 million kr. in the absence of VAT and tax payments in relation to government efforts against social dumping, and that is since we turned up the regulatory efforts in 2011-2012, where we made the first agreements and started this regulatory work. It says something about there being a good investment in getting such a security card up and that the money is available to do so. But I look forward to the work of the committee and I would like to take up the glove that the Social Democrat rapporteur threw at us. We must see if there can be anything fruitful about writing a report. So I look forward to exploring that possibility. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423184320	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423184324	Thank you. Our rapporteur could not be here today, but I would just like to say that the SF, as we have said many times, of course supports the introduction of an ID card.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423184335	I would like to thank you for that. I certainly expected that to happen, but I must be careful not to speak on behalf of a rapporteur who is not here from another party. It could cause a terrible mess. I don't want that with the person it's about.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423184351	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423184404	The debate is open, and I shall begin by giving the floor to Mr Seligman. Benny Engelbrecht as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423184420	Thank you, President. The discussion on the budget law can be made very long and very fundamental. One can also confine oneself to looking at the proposal before us and finding that this is a revision clause which is being amended so as to postpone the time when the budget law is to be revised, and I would like to begin by saying that the Social Democratic Party supports this. I would also like to greet the radical speaker, sir. Martin Lidegaard, who cannot be present, and announce that Radical Left can also support this. There are a lot of issues that it would be perfectly logical to look at in the context of a revision of the budget law. The Minister for Finance has informed me that a number of analyses have been initiated in the Ministry of Finance. Social democracy supports this. It makes good sense to have a series of in-depth analyses to ensure that we get the right proportions in the application of the budget law. Because that is important, we think we are getting the right proportions, for example. in relation to sanctions mechanisms. Because it's not supposed to be, for example. Our spending management must lead to permanent poorer welfare. We are also very concerned that the focus of the budget law's intentions for multiannual expenditure planning can be ensured. It is the very spirit of the budget law that we organise budgets according to a multiannual perspective that allows for long-term decisions. However, if the spending ceilings in each year become too rigid, it may be difficult for both the individual municipality and the individual institution to think long-term. In the Social Democratic Party we are not sure that the concrete implementation and interpretation of this part of the budget law has been done in accordance with the spirit of the law, and therefore we will have a particular focus on that issue in the forthcoming evaluation. However, as I have said, if we adopt this proposal, it will come in the next Assembly. Social democracy is going to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423184641	There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423184646	Thank you. Let us put aside the discussion about whether a review could have been reached within the deadline. You can always take that. However, in view of the fact that there is a lot to suggest and I hope that we will have a change of government after the next parliamentary elections, I think it is logical to also use the opportunity to ask a little about what the Social Democrats think about the budget law. I'm really glad to hear that Mr. Knox... Benny Engelbrecht mentions this with multiannual budgets. This is one of the things that cause so much trouble to the municipalities and that do not promote the sensible use of our common economy. Something else is also the very harsh sanctions that are in the case of infringements, even very, very small violations, as we have seen, which in fact mean that municipalities are under-consumers to the detriment of welfare and of citizens. Are the Socialists interested in looking at the sanctions and how hard they have to be?
ParlaMint-DK_20190423184747	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423184749	It's perfectly natural to analyze that part of it. It is also quite natural to analyse precisely whether the intention of the budget law to be able to make long-term budget planning is being properly exploited. When it comes to the way in which the Ministry of Finance works with the forward-looking aim, because the budget law also forms the basis for the negotiations between government and municipalities, it is always written down in subsequent budgetary years in order to have a negotiating point. It does, of course, make everything else equal that it becomes more difficult to plan according to it in the municipalities when you have to enter and make multiannual budgets. That is why it is necessary not only to look at how the law itself is drafted, but also how it is used in the negotiations between municipalities and the state, to ensure that it is used to have a multiannual framework, for example. We must avoid having what is popularly called petrol burning, so that at the end of a budget year we must hurry to burn some money, literally, rather than spend it most appropriately.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423184904	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423184906	Yes, and now we have had the budget law for seven years, so we have also been able to follow its implementation and how it works in the municipalities. And the Social Democracy has, of course, a great many city council members and mayors around the country, as I am sure they have also expressed their views on it. In any case, we saw this just as recently as the KL Summit. And as we have seen recently, there are these very, very small overruns which then give some pretty tough sanctions. There we see in other years that there are, in fact, some rather large billions that are under-utilised and thus not being spent on welfare etc. So I very much hope that it will be taken into account, as we hear from social democratic mayors and city councillors. However, at the end of the day it is a political decision, no matter what professional input you get, which budget law we want to tighten up, just as it was also a political decision, how it was originally put together in 2012.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423185003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423185005	Yes, the intention is fine, namely to ensure that we stay within the framework agreed overall. But I fully agree with Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen that if it ends up in permanent under-consumers, then it is inappropriate, certainly.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423185021	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. René Christensen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423185030	Thank you for that, President. Now, in fact, the proposal here is only about postponing the review, and we in the Danish People's Party can of course agree to that. But, of course, we are quite interested in what the review will offer. We are not, of course, part of the conciliation circle, but it is true that in the debate that has just taken place there were some shortcomings, but certainly also some very good and sensible tactics, in relation to the budget law. However, as far as the proposal here is concerned, we can of course support the fact that the review will come at a later stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423185102	There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423185104	It is true that the bill here alone is about exactly a postponement, but because the budget law is an important law and one that has consequences for our municipalities • consequences for how to manage the economy in the end and how the money is also spent for welfare in the municipalities • it is an important debate to have. And I also think that, now that we are facing a parliamentary election, it is nice to hear how the various parties feel about some of the issues that have also been raised in the budget law. I would like to say that, on the part of the SF, we support having a budget law, that is fine and that we must respect the framework and the agreements that have been concluded. The only question is whether this is the best possible way to get together, and I think it will be a rather awkward debate if we keep referring only to the fact that some committee has been set up, because we, as politicians, are also set in the world to have some opinions on something. Therefore, I would like to know what DF's position is on the current budget law and how it might improve.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423185201	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423185206	Well, we're where the SF has come to now. That is also why we are not part of the conciliation circle. We thought there was a need for some sort of compliance agreement with the municipalities. Once an agreement has been reached, it must also be respected. The municipalities didn't do that in the past, and now they do. We thought it was too square, for example in relation to something like plant. I think everyone knows that if you plan to build a school, it may be that you plan to build it in 4 years, but then it won't happen in 4 years, then it won't happen in 5 years, and then you'll have the payout at another time. And there it would be obvious that, for example, when you look at installations, you have such an average consideration over a multiannual period. Whether it's two or three years, we're not gonna get stuck with it. But we are not part of the conciliation circle on the budget law, precisely because we thought it was very square. That is not to say that we think the budget law is wrong, but the starting point that was in 2012 was too square, and what the SF is expressing today is, of course, that this is something we agree with.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423185256	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we move on to Mr. Hans Andersen as rapporteur for the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423185307	Thank you. The Ministry of Finance has launched a number of studies in preparation for the revision of the Budget Act. It acts among other things. on studies on lower consumption, potential trends in petrol burning and the minimum deficit threshold. These are therefore issues which are quite relevant to the budget law, and since these studies have not yet been completed, we believe that the only right thing is to postpone the revision of the budget law to the next parliamentary assembly so that we can have a more solid basis for a future revision. Those were the remarks.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423185342	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423185346	It is always good to get professional input, but I still think, when we are in the Chamber, that it is a good occasion to discuss budget law and to hear what the Left Party, the Danish Liberal Party, thinks about the way in which the budget law is screwed up today. I expect that if you support the government's position that you should finish this committee work first, it is because you think it is not necessarily perfect, otherwise there was no need to look at it. So what is the Left's position on the Budget Act? I suppose it is believed that it can be done better than it is today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423185426	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423185428	And that is precisely why it makes sense to wait for the analyses before deciding what to think about possible changes to the budget law. After all, it does not make sense to carry out the analyses if we could say in advance here today that we think that these and those changes should take place. So we should just arm ourselves with patience and then wait for the analyses and then take it into account in the forthcoming discussions on changes to the budget law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423185459	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423185501	However, the Minister for Finance, the Member of the Left Party and part of the government have mentioned some of these elements in a debate that we had at the KL Summit, and I think that was actually fine. That is why I think we can have some thoughts about this multiannual budget, i.e. whether it makes sense. The only way to kick it to the corner is because there is a committee work, I think a little too bad when we have been able to see how it has worked for seven years. I am also sure that the rapporteur has received a great deal of input from Left Mayors and Councillors who are working on the Budget Act on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423185548	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423185550	Yes, I have certainly received many input and suggestions on how to amend the budget law. I myself am a councilman, so I have certainly sent out good suggestions from my municipality too. However, that does not change the fact that I think it is extremely sensible to have those analyses before we take the very thorough analysis, and then the Minister for Finance will be coming up in a moment, and then the rapporteur will also be able to put good questions to the Minister for Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423185622	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. Rune Lund as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423185631	The Budget Act, adopted in 2012 by the then SRSF government, should have been revised here this year, in 2019. Now this bill has arrived, which proposes that the review be postponed. However, the review is urgently needed, because the budget law has not brought public finances to order. On the contrary, the law has created a regime in which the focus has been removed from the needs of the citizens, and instead the look is rigidly aimed at complying with the EU's tough demands for savings on public budgets. The law does not measure whether the funds in the public sector have the most impact on citizens in terms of welfare and health. The law promotes cash thinking, where the most important thing is whether the bottom line in the spreadsheets votes year by year. It blocks investment in social, environmental and economic sustainability. The Budget Act is a tool for implementing a unilateral economic policy in which the government lowers taxes especially for the rich and the high-paid while claiming that there is no money for welfare and health. When fiscal room for manoeuvre is spent on tax cuts, municipalities and regions must hold back, because the budget law says that otherwise it will create an excessive deficit on public finances. The Budget Act and the associated threats of economic sanctions are a tool for the discipline of municipalities and regions. This causes fear of additional consumption, which means that the municipalities have generally spent less over the years than they actually had to do under the economic agreements with the government. This testifies to the following facts: In all years since 2010, the municipalities have spent less than they had to spend under the economic agreements with the government in order to avoid sanctions due to budget overruns. In total, since 2010, the municipalities have spent 31 billion. kr. less than they had to. During the same period, more than 35,000 full-time jobs have disappeared in the municipalities, most of which are welfare jobs. This represents a decrease in the number of posts of barely 8 per cent. The regions have seen a 4% increase in employment. Since 2009, however, it must be compared with the fact that regional hospitals have delivered a productivity increase of 23 per cent. during the same period. Overall, full-time employment has fallen by about 30,500 since 2010 in regions and municipalities, corresponding to a total decrease of 5,5%. Service costs per year The population has fallen by 11 per cent. Since 2009. The Budget Act is the key fiscal tool that ensures the implementation of the reduction policy. It stands in the way of municipalities and regions being able to provide the welfare and health that the people need and demand. The answer here is simple: it is not, in fact, to postpone a revision of the budget law; it is, in fact, to scrap it or to take action equivalent to scraping it; it is to do a fundamental review which may involve multiannual budgets, for example, to loosen the strict rules and, of course, to provide municipalities and regions with the necessary means to provide proper welfare. So we have evaluated what we think should be done with the budget law and, in this sense, look at no particular reason to postpone the evaluation. On the contrary, we see a need for the budget law we know today to be scrapped because of its harmful effects on our welfare societies in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423190028	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423190032	Thank you. I think this is a good opportunity to discuss what the budget law should look like or whether it should be completely removed. I just think it is to mix apples and pears a little, on the one hand to discuss whether too little money is being allocated to maintain the welfare and level of service that citizens expect and which, at least some people think, is also an appropriate level, and then on the other hand to discuss money for the budget law. For let us imagine that next year a municipal agreement was made that gave the municipalities twice as much money as the following year, so the only thing that lies in the budget law is that they then just comply with that agreement. So it does not necessarily say anything about how much money there is for welfare or how the municipality agreement will look, whether there is a lot of money or a lot of money. It just says that you have to keep the agreements that have been made. So I fully agree with the criticism that too little money has been spent on welfare, a lot of people have been fired and so on, but one to say that it is because of the budget law, I just think the debate is muddled rather than placing it where it is: the political agreements and the municipal agreements that do not provide enough money for the level of welfare we want.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423190143	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423190145	It is true that there are two elements. There are the municipal agreements that are being made where, unfortunately, we also saw during Thorning time that on the budget side there were cuts, minus growth when local government agreements were negotiated unfortunately. We did not vote in favour of this. It was something that the then government voted through with the bourgeois here in the Folketing. It's one discussion. Then there is the second discussion on the budget law as a tool, and it has to be said that the way in which the budget law works is an absolutely central cutting tool, which I also mentioned in my speech, and the way in which it works, in which you have to look at every year that you do not consume more than you have to, in order to avoid sanctions, have created this fear of spending too much, which has meant that municipalities, for example. Year after year, they've spent less than they had to. It's been worse for some years than in others. So one is, of course, how much money is being allocated, that is clear, and the other is about the budget law as a tool, and both have contributed, as it were, to the very sad development that I explained in my rapporteur's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423190249	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423190250	To begin with, when you vote in favour of a financial law, you vote indirectly in favour of a municipal agreement. However, I fully agree with the criticism that it is too tight and that it leaves no room for Keynesian politics in times of crisis. I believe that we in the Enhedslisten and the SF at least agree that a greater room for manoeuvre is needed if there is a need to invest if we are to be hit by a crisis again, which we unfortunately do at some point. I think it is precisely a question of adapting the budget law and not saying that there is no logic in complying with the economic agreements that are being concluded.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423190332	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423190333	Of course, we must respect the economic agreements we make, but I would say that if the alternative to what we have now is not to have it, then the alternative, that is not to have it, is better. However, it is clear that some revisions to the budget law can then be made, which means that in reality it does not end up being a budget law anymore, and that is something we would like to see. As far as this is concerned, the way in which the new result is arrived at is of secondary importance. In relation to whether we should have voted in favour of a municipal agreement because we were included in three financial laws under the Thorning Government, I would say that I think this is a rather funny way of arguing when it is said that for that reason we should support the municipal agreements. A lot of money is also being given to the military in a Finance Act, and does this mean that the Enhedslisten is in favour of the military appropriations when we openly advocate that the military should have less money than it currently has? You can't argue that way. The municipal agreements that were made, where there was minus growth on the budget part, were made with the S-R-SF government and later the S-R-government and the bourgeois parties against the votes of Enhedslisten. I just think that's a little important for the sake of history writing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423190438	Thank you, sir. Rune Lund. There are no more brief comments, so we move on to the next one, and the next one is Mr. Joachim B. Olsen of the Liberal Alliance. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423190449	Thank you for that, President. In our view, the Budget Act is the best thing that came out of the last parliamentary term. The Budget Act restricts politicians to complying with the budgets that have been adopted and not just using taxpayers' money loosely. Before the budget law, it was the rule, not the exception, that democratically adopted budgets were exceeded. Between 1993 and the adoption of the Budget Act, public spending increased by as much as 87 billion. kr. more than what was planned. This is a problem for several reasons. It is a democratic problem that budgets are democratically adopted, and then they leave year after year. This means, of course, that a policy is being pursued which has not really been supported, a policy other than that which was actually adopted. So the budget law is basically a very, very great success that has helped to put order in the Danish economy. Then, of course, it needs to be revised, and it is a sound principle to revise the various laws that you have to look at whether they are working as intended and whether they can improve. And the budget law can certainly do that in some areas. These are some interesting analyses being carried out in the Ministry of Finance, and it is also wise to wait for them to be completed to change legislation if necessary. But, of course, we support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423190646	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423190651	Thank you. I agree that it is good to say to each other that the agreements we make are being observed. Then, in the SF, we have some opinions that we will then have some negative consequences from having arranged it that way, but let it be. I think that Mr. Joachim B. Olsen is making the same mistake as Mr. Rune Lund also did in terms of the size of the budgets on the one hand and on the other hand having a budget law, perhaps with the opposite sign compared to the Enhedslisten. Sir. Joachim B. Olsen says that we must ensure that we do not use the money of our citizens loosely, but Mr. Joachim B. Olsen knows that if the government decided to make a municipal agreement where the municipalities' budget was doubled, it was not contrary to the budget law. After all, it is all about complying with what has been agreed, and neither about the level of taxation nor the level of welfare, nor about how much money should be spent in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423190752	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423190752-2	No, but when I said, as I said, it was because I referred to spending more money in the past, more taxpayers' money than they had agreed to do. That is what I meant by using loose, and of course I think that is a huge problem. We may have political disagreements about how high public spending should be and how much it should increase etc., but if you have made some agreements and set aside some money that you want to spend, then there will be no more spending than has been agreed. And that is what happened before, and that means that public consumption and the public sector were greater than what had been decided on politically-democratically, and I think that is a problem for several reasons.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423190842	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423190843	In fact, I agree with Mr. Joachim B. Olsen in. I just think that this misunderstanding that the budget law should mean austerity policy or express what LA thinks is a sensible tax level or what SF thinks is flourishing among many people with whom this is discussed. I just think that, for the sake of the discussion, is a good thing to get to the ground and to make it clear that it is simply a matter of keeping to what has been agreed. I also think that it is a good democratic principle to spend no more money than has been agreed. The model itself can then be better combined in our optics, but it is not about austerity policy or spending the money of the citizens; it is about keeping to what has been agreed. And there I think we are actually very much in agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423190929	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423190930	Yeah, I think we agree on that. When I said that it sets limits so that politicians cannot simply spend their money loosely, it was a reference to the fact that before the budget law more money was spent than had been agreed. And I think that is quite uncontroversial to say, and it is quite obvious that it is of course a problem if you do so. So I can fully confirm that we have a common understanding of what the budget law is about. There is also only one way to understand it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423191006	Thank you, sir. Joachim B. Olsen, and welcome to Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423191014	Thank you. Our financial rapporteur, Christian Poll, is swinging the green tabs somewhere in North Zealand at a debate event, so I have promised to read out the speech he has written in connection with this proposal: the alternative is astonishing that the planned revision has been set in motion too late to be implemented as agreed. It is in the agreement that the review should take place this year, when the special circumstances of the election year have also been known. But now we are standing here without sufficient grounds for a thorough review. So, on the one hand, we can see that it is too much pressure to carry out this review so close to a choice and that one should wait for the professional analyses and experience collection. On the other hand, we believe that the municipalities are being run too hard and want to give them a greater degree of freedom to manage their own economy. The alternative believes that municipalities need to be able to make long-term investments to a much greater extent than the budget law allows, especially in climate measures and solutions that promote sustainable conversion. Many of the solutions that support that conversion cannot be implemented when there is such tight economic governance within the budget year. This means that important measures in the municipalities, for example. in the area of climate adaptation and energy, shall be postponed to the minimum next budgetary year. Against this background, the alternative expects to abstain, in other words to vote yellow on the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423191143	Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl. There are no brief comments, which is why I would like to welcome Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423191204	In the SF, we believe that the current budget law has become too tight a straitjacket for the municipalities, and we would therefore like to make it more flexible and wiser. We do not quite want to abolish the budget law. I have also made this clear in the brief remarks I have made to my colleagues today. We do not want to go back to the budget overruns of the '00s, but we believe, in return, that the budget law can be made much wiser. This requires that we relax the sanctions and ensure that the municipalities dare to spend the money they have at their disposal and that we provide better opportunities for multiannual planning, so that one year you can run with under- or surplus if, in return, you set up the balance sheet the following year. I fully agree with Mr. Torsten Gejl in that some of the challenges that will also be faced in the coming years require a completely different look at how the Ministry of Finance works, how our arithmetic models work, a different view of dynamic effects and of our need for long-term planning, because many of the challenges are not related to short-term cash thinking, i.e. that money should fit year after year. We need a wise economic green policy and it requires longer-term planning. We in the SF believe that this can also be linked to the fact that we have a budget law, because in our optics a budget law is simply a form of respect between two parties for what has been agreed to be respected. And in that respect and in those agreements, there must be room for more flexibility, for long-term planning, for the follow-up of the objectives needed to achieve our climate objectives and our social objectives, for the whole social area, and I know that Mr. Torsten Gejl is the social rapporteur, and he is so influenced by short-term cash thinking, for example. says it is not worth investing in small children here and now, but we know that, in addition to the human consequences, it can also be economically very expensive. That is why, as it is today, we have not prepared ourselves wisely enough financially. These are also some of the changes that we want in relation to the way in which calculators operate, the dynamic effects are being involved and, in general, in the work that needs to be done so that we can have a more intelligent and long-term economic policy. Back to the budget law: Today, the spending ceilings are such concrete 1 year olds, and it is tempting to spend money in pure panic • the so-called petrol burning • at the end of the year, because the money cannot be saved and spent the following year. It is a poor use of public funds. My colleague, sir. Rune Lund, mentioned how much money it has actually meant has been underspended over the years, money that was intended to be spent on welfare. Just before I got on the platform, Mr. Joachim B. Olsen said that it was democratic to abide by the agreements we have and that it is therefore undemocratic to spend more money than has been agreed. Then it is also undemocratic to have a lower consumption of 31 billion. kr., intended for welfare. So that respect must go both ways. That is actually our view of the budget law. In the SF, we propose that in the municipalities under one and in the ministries the possibility of moving amounts back and forth to a limited extent between the years, that the maximum removable amount be fixed in relation to the total expenditure ceiling of the different units, for example. 1 per cent and that, in the light of experience, e.g. After five years, these should be assessed and the proper functioning of this mechanism assessed. The Budget Act stipulates that the so-called structural deficit on public finances must not exceed 0.5%. of bnp, which amounts to about 10 billion. kr. a year. This is not a problem right now or in the good years, but as we have discussed in the past, there is a need for action, and I think that is the lesson for many of us that, in times of crisis, we also have to invest out of the crisis. There must be air and space for that. There were many countries which, during the financial crisis, were simply spared. So that air and that room must be there when things aren't going well. And that is why it is foolish, if there are times of crisis, to impose a reduction of 0.5% on ourselves when we can have a structural deficit of 1% without problems. This will allow an active and expansive financial policy to be pursued in times of crisis. Finally, we are also still faced with the same hammock challenge as in the 1930s, where for some years it may make sense to run temporarily with a deficit slightly higher than 0.5%. We know that this is a temporary challenge. It is essential for us in the SF to have a much better budget law than today, and we will also stand firm against a new government, that is to say, that it is necessary. The status quo is neither a very wise nor particularly sensible economic policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423191719	Thank you to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. There are no comments. I would like to welcome Mr. Anders Johansson of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423191730	Thank you. We have been around a bit with a bill which is really only about postponing this revision of the budget law from this parliamentary year to the next, and we can support that from the conservative side. It has been good to have a discussion about it, but I think it would be better if we could perhaps take that debate when we have, like these analyses which are actually the reason why we have the bill now, because the Ministry of Finance is carrying out some analyses of the budget law. When the results of them are available, we are a little more enlightened in relation to possible revisions of the budget law. So, conservatively, we fully support this proposal to postpone the revision of the budget law.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423191813	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423191817	Does this mean that the Conservatives also have no position whatsoever on the budget law and how it is screwed up or should be screwed up? After all, we have had it for seven years, and it is not the case that the relevant ministries of the Ministry of Finance, but also the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior and other ministries have no experience of how it is screwed together. It is not the case that no one in the municipalities has thought about how the budget law is put together. So do the Conservatives not have a position on whether there are any things that can be improved by the current budget law?
ParlaMint-DK_20190423191852	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423191853	We are of the opinion that the budget law is very good. It has also been a very good tool to ensure that, unlike in the past, when there were major difficulties in complying with the budgets and the agreements that had been concluded, they began to comply more closely with them. We think that is very positive. But I would like to say that this does not mean that we cannot do things any better. That is also why, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, we need those analyses from the Ministry of Finance, and then we can take the discussion on an enlightened basis when it is available. That is, in fact, just what I am appealing to us to do in the next Assembly when we get this review, which is then postponed with the adoption of the legislative proposal we are debating now.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423191928	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423191930	But as Mr. Joachim B. Olsen also mentioned, and with which I actually agree, it is not right to spend a lot of money, and the rapporteur also refers to money, for which there is no basis, because it is outside what has been agreed. But it must be an equally serious problem that there is an under-utilisation of welfare of 31 billion. kr., because one has created a certain structure which makes one simply dare not approach what has been agreed for fear of reprisals and consequences. Is it not just as much a problem, that some of what we have agreed and which was intended to benefit the citizen in terms of welfare, close to the citizen's welfare of 31 billion? kr., isn't being delivered either? Isn't that a problem too?
ParlaMint-DK_20190423192014	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423192015	Yeah, but I guess it goes both ways. I mean, it's a problem when you don't comply with the agreements that are being made. I am not saying that the budget law is perfect either, but I am just saying that before we decide whether or not to change anything, I would like us to have the analyses that the Ministry of Finance is carrying out. And that is what the bill here is asking for, namely to have those analyses presented in the next parliamentary year. That is basically just what I am saying: let us now wait for them and then we can discuss how we might do things better.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423192042	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. And I would like to welcome the Minister for Finance of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423192051	Thank you for the debate, which has been somewhat more wide-ranging than the draft law actually proposes. The draft law simply says that, since we have not finished the analyses launched by the Ministry of Finance on the budget law, instead of revising it in this Assembly, we will revise it in the next session of Parliament. And I haven't really heard anyone, except perhaps Enhedslisten, who has been so fiercely opposed to waiting. However, it is also a question, in relation to the work that we have started to get some knowledge of the many allegations about the budget law, that the analyses are there and that they have been completed before we decide what is to happen. And I would like to say now, just to anticipate the questions, that I have not taken a position on the extent to which the budget law should be amended in the future. I do not have that in mind, therefore, that knowledge allows me to ask to have it on the basis of the analyses before I take a position on what is going to happen. It may be that some people, before they have knowledge and whatever knowledge they get, have something certain they want to do. But I have the opposite, so that I actually allow myself to wait to get knowledge from analyses before deciding what is going to happen. Is it true, for example, that the budget law provides for so-called petrol burning, that is to say that at the end of the year we are spending on the budget because we cannot continue it, or is it just something we are talking about? For the discussion on whether or not to see under-consumers, I can just say that it is true that on the operating side the municipalities have largely under-utilised, especially during the period when the SF sat in government. But if we look at the site, they have greatly overspent. And if you look at 2017 and 2018 the municipalities have overall overspent because the sanction mechanism is only on the operating side and not on the overall agreement, not on the construction side. So that's what Mr. Joachim B. Olsen said that the budget law was clearly positive: it has now begun to comply with the agreed budgets, so only on the operating side, it does not apply on the construction side. If you look at the provisional figures for 2018, there is a small consumption of 0.1 billion. kr. in operation but an overrun of 2 billion. kr. at installations. So this whole talk about the budget law tying the municipalities in such a lock that they can do nothing and nothing can move on, just doesn't fit with reality when you look at the figures that are for 2017 and the provisional accounting figures for 2018. As I said, I am not going to decide what to do with the budget law. Allow me to keep an open mind about what is the right way forward for the budget law. I still believe that there should be a budget law, because I think it is true that we have a framework for how the Danish economy should develop forward-lookingly • a framework for what it is for some things we do. And I have in fact just indicated, in order to address this question in advance, that I was in favour of the principles behind multi-year agreements, but that it required the municipalities to be able to show that they could stay within the overall agreements. And in the two years since I made that commitment, the municipalities have exceeded the agreement we have on the overall budget when you bring both operations and installations. In other words, it is not particularly encouraging to make multiannual agreements, as it were, that in the first two years of the basically positive commitment to look at it, yes, the 1-year agreements are not being respected. Because I don't believe that it will be the case that it will be easy for a municipality to spend a lot more money in year 1 and then to have restraint in year 2 I don't actually believe that. I believe that what will be difficult will be if you have a budget overrun in the year 1, so to go back to budget compliance at all in the year 2. Therefore, there is something in the way the municipalities are acting today that is counterproductive to their own desire to make multiannual budget agreements. However, I welcome the fact that there seems to be good support for us to postpone the revision of the budget law. This means that we will have the analyses over the summer, and this means that all parties in the Danish Parliament have ample opportunity to understand the content of the analyses and get the knowledge that makes it possible that when we come to the forthcoming assembly of parliaments, the 2019-20 Assembly, we all have an enlightened basis for discussing what will happen to the budget bill in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423192546	You're welcome. There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423192549	After all, that was a great many words on a subject that it was obviously not appropriate for us to discuss today, because we were only going to discuss whether or not to postpone the review. I think this is an excellent opportunity to discuss something that has such great consequences for so many people and which is an important and integral part of our economic policy. But I just have a clarification question for the Minister, and that is: are the analyses in the Ministry of Finance so far advanced that if there was a political desire now from the government to initiate a review, that would be possible?
ParlaMint-DK_20190423192628	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423192629	First of all, I think it is appropriate to discuss this. I am just surprised that such a modest draft law on the postponement of a review has led to such a big discussion when we know that we will come back to it later. In relation to the other, I would say that one can always make a change of law without basing it on knowledge. You can always do that. So, of course, you could make a change of law. You just didn't want a knowledge that made you know about the myths and stories about, for example. petrol burning and other things are right or just myths. That is why I believe that the factual basis for a revision of the budget law is not present today, but that it will be when we come to the 2019-20 Assembly.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423192711	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423192712	So the analyses aren't done?
ParlaMint-DK_20190423192720	No.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423192725	These are short questions and short answers. Thank you. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I would suggest that the bill be referred to the Finance Committee. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423192738	The debate is open. The first person to speak is Mr Seligman. Henrik Sass Larsen from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423192805	Thank you. See, the Danish Parliament approves the state accounts every year and, as I recall from the almost 20 years I have been sitting in here, it is usually a very short reading. In fact, I do not recall that there has ever been a debate on this. But some of us are going to change that a little today. In Denmark, we have just the tradition that the state administration has mastered what we call the accounting. And I would like to stress that this is the case, of course, but there is one exception, namely that it does not apply when it comes to State revenue, that is to say, taxes and duties. The state accounts for 2017 are especially in two ways. First of all, for the first time ever, the National Audit Office has made reservations about the correctness of Article 38, taxes and charges. This means that the National Audit Office cannot vouch for whether half of the state accounts, namely revenue, are properly entered in the accounts. Secondly, for the first time since the first state accounts were presented in 1851, the National Auditors of the Danish Parliament have proposed to the Folketing that the state accounts may be approved, but with a number of observations. I myself have been appointed a state auditor, and I and my five state auditors from the Danish People's Party, the Radical Left, the Liberal Alliance, the Left and the Enhedslisten look with great seriousness and concern at the uncertainty about the correctness of revenue in the state accounts and uncertainty about the underlying recovery of citizens' and companies' debts to the state. The state auditors call on the Folketing to see the approval of the 2017 state accounts as an opportunity for a more general discussion of the tax area, and that is also why we are taking the floor today. The uncertainty about revenue in the 2017 state accounts is only the tip of the iceberg. Under the top are a number of serious and threatening problems that testify to a tax administration kneeling down with insufficient recovery of public arrears, tax fraud on dividends, the collection of illegal property taxes, the lack of IT support for tax collection and these are just some of the problems that the tax administration has. These are problems which have cost taxpayers billions and which have resulted in debtors experiencing no consequence of having debts to the public and many citizens and businesses losing confidence in the tax administration. Some of the problems encountered by the tax administration are due to non-political factors such as: failing IT systems, while others have been political, for example. that the efficiency gains were reaped before there was any certainty that the new IT systems were working. In the social democracy we recognise that many parties and parties are responsible for this development. We also recognise that the current government has launched a number of initiatives to strengthen the tax administration with plans such as the "SKAT out of the crisis' and "A new tax administration 2016 • New organisation, more employees and well-functioning IT'. The only question is whether it is enough and whether it is fast enough. The Social Democratic Party will call for the strengthening and recovery of tax administration in Denmark to be given priority by all parties in the Folketing and by the current and future government. Citizens and companies in Denmark have to pay their taxes on time, and they have to pay no more or less than provided. It is the whole foundation of our welfare society and it is absolutely crucial for the sense of justice that everything is being done to recover sums due, so that some people cannot just speculate about avoiding paying. Action is really needed here. Government and administration must devote all their energies to avoiding the recurrence of uncertainty about the correctness of the government accounts for 2018 and future state accounts. It is basically about trust in the state and society, and we hope that this is the last time that we will have a debate on these issues on the basis of the state accounts.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423193242	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423193245	It's for mr. Henrik Sass Larsen's comment that this is a general discussion, and I think it is nice that we can have such a general discussion, and one of the things that should happen very quickly is that we get some more in tax control. I note that, like the Enhedslisten, the Social Democratic Party believes that there should be several years' work in tax control, and we say at least 1,000. But in reality it's not about a number. It's about getting the right number of employees, but our assessment is, among other things. In the light of dialogue and discussions with the professional organizations, there is ample need for 1,000 years' work. In this context, I would like to ask the rapporteur how the money can be provided for it. For one of the challenges we are facing right now, for example. Asks the Minister for Finance about the economy in hiring more tax control officers, is that the Minister for Finance says that this is not possible at all, even though we have seen in repeated replies that each control officer, depending on what tax control projects we are talking about, earns his salary a great deal of time. It is the case, when you count out in the municipalities, that if you hire an employee to control social benefits, you can see how much money that employee gets in, and then you can do a business case calculation, but the way to calculate is unfortunately totally absent when we talk the state. I would actually like to hear the rapporteur's views on this, because I think it is rather unclear where the social democracy lies precisely in that discussion and how much one wants to go into that way of calculating.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423193415	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423193417	Thank you. There were many questions in the question. One is the general discussion on tax and other matters, and when we come up with such an approach on the part of the national auditors in relation to this particular matter, it is because of a great deal of seriousness, and it has not happened before. Therefore, the whole parliament should listen very, very carefully when you send such a request and when we go up and take the floor in this matter. In other legislative proposals and others, we can have excellent special discussions on the individual subjects, and we think that is quite fine, but this is more of a general approach in relation to the fact that the basic trust in the administration is actually in order in the state. In relation to the specific question of what practice will be, if one now discovers that in the longer term 1,000 more employees are actually going to recover some more taxes and taxes, then one must assume that they calibrate the calculators over in the Ministry of Finance to say that it is a lasting state. This means that revenue must also increase for the State if it is to be found that, in fact, with more and more employees, it will mean that we will earn more income on a lasting basis. So that must be the business way of it, without my having to take on expertise in exactly how to set up all the algorithms.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423193532	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423193533	I agree with that. What may be the challenge, or at least what is the resistance when we get the answer from the Minister of Finance, is that one is quite stubbornly refusing to count in the way in which a lot is calculated on the tax gap, i.e. such a slightly synthetic construction, where one looks at: how many crowns do we get in the box, compared to how many crowns we would have had in the box? Then you have to make some assumptions to find out what that amount is, to find out how many crowns you would have had in the box given some specific assumptions. Contrary to what you see more on crowns in the box, i.e. the concrete control projects, and then you just get that coupling done, compared to how much money there is, I think I see a lot of resistance from the Minister of Finance today. I would like to see more business-case calculations started there, such as those carried out in the past. in the municipalities today. This could be a very sensible way of doing economic governance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423193628	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423193629	I know that the conscientious people in the Ministry of Finance are working in such a way that they are continually printing, about the assumptions which they have used for both revenue and expenditure, are sustainable in relation to the calculated, and that goes in both directions. We can imagine that we have a condition in relation to income tax that is so and so high, and one can then be disappointed over a year, but that does not mean that we put it down permanently, but that we see it over several years. However, it is clear that if, over a long period of time, one finds that income is falling as a result of the income tax that we have in Denmark, then one has to calibrate its long-term expenditure accordingly. In the same way, it is also true when you get increased revenue. That is why I also think that, if there is real proof that better tax collection or something else actually increases revenue, then it will also be possible to put higher revenue on the basis of it. That must be the logical thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423193721	Thank you, sir. Henrik Sass Larsen. There are no more brief comments. Welcome, sir. René Christensen, Dansk Folkeparti
ParlaMint-DK_20190423193736	Thank you for that, President. It is true, as has just been said, that it is atypical that we have this discussion in Parliament. It is the case that on 4 April we had the matter in the Committee on Finance and we have also submitted a report. It is, of course, a report in which all the parties of the Folketing propose it for adoption. But it is quite right, as the Social Democrat rapporteur has just said, that it is with comments from the Reichsaudit in relation to the tax area. It has to be said that it is probably just before you could have written it on earlier. It is certainly not new that there are challenges in the area of taxation. We have had that for a number of years. But it has to be said here that it is, of course, a very aggravating fact that in this way the Reichsaudit has to make reservations about it in connection with the accounts. We have, of course, taken note of this in the Committee on Finance, and we have done so in the Danish People's Party, and we fully agree that there is work ahead of us. After all, we are also working on cross-party solutions to the challenges of the Danish tax administration.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423193846	Thank you, sir. René Christensen. There are no brief comments. Welcome to sir. Hans Andersen, Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423193900	Thank you. I would like to start by welcoming the fact that we have strong government accounts for 2017. A surplus of 30.8 billion. kr. followed by a surplus of 41.8 billion. kr. After all, in 2018 we have a strong economy. However, it is clear that we must look very seriously at the Danish National Audit Office's reservations about Article 38 on taxes and charges in the 2017 state accounts. It is also something that we in the Left are concerned about following very closely. We have also given priority to adding extra resources to the tax area over a period of around 12 billion. kr. I can also tell you that the cooperation between the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury has been strengthened. There was a need for this too. There have also been set up follow-up groups in which the Ministry of Taxation regularly informs about the financial statements for §38 and a cooperation forum has been established between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Taxation. Then we must also recognise that this is not a problem that has arisen overnight. This is a problem that we have a shared responsibility to solve, but also a shared responsibility to stand up to and look at, and we have to recognise that we have not paid sufficient attention to tackling the problems. But now they have to be solved. More money will be added to the tax area. There are a lot of people who are being rolled-out IT systems. Because we cannot and must not live with the fact that the state accounts are being called into question. We do not want that in the Left. That is why we are now moving in the right direction, but it is not a snapshot solution. It is a long, tough move to restore our confidence, as the Socialist rapporteur also mentioned, that is to say, confidence in paying your taxes and paying no more or less than what you have to pay; you also pay it on time, and you count on and expect and can also expect the neighbour to do the same. So in those words, I shall support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423194154	Thank you, sir. Hans Andersen. Welcome to sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten, De Red-Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423194214	After all, it is somewhat paradoxical that the State auditors suspend the state accounts for 2017 for approval when the State auditors and the Reichsaudit make reservations about § 38, namely taxes and taxes and the revenue part there. Half of the state accounts are thus subject to reservation. I understand that, despite the reservation, the National Audit Office has come to the conclusion that the majority of taxes and duties have been paid and registered correctly in the state accounts, and therefore there are recommendations to approve, but with a strong criticism of the SKAT or tax administration, as it is said today. Now it is quite appropriate to scold the tax administration, but it must also be said that the Danish Parliament, and in particular the parties that have been behind the destruction, the savings, the constant restructuring of the tax administration, has a responsibility to the savings that we have seen. There is a political responsibility that we have come to where, unfortunately, we are today. However, the positive thing to say is that since 2015 the discussion has no longer been, how much savings should be made and how fast it should go with cutting down, but on the contrary how much needs to be invested and how fast it should go. It is, after all, the joyful thing that one can enjoy. It is the case that since 2015, almost 3,000 additional years have actually been employed in our tax administration. It peaks in 2019. Unfortunately, however, the problem is also that by 2020, in other words next year, the budget will fall. There is simply a cliff that needs to be filled up; a cliff that has not yet been decided politically. It is, of course, an enormously uncertain situation, which is why, unfortunately, our tax administration is now in close proximity to the summer recess that decisions on what is to happen for 2020 do not yet have a guarantee for the budget. That's very serious. If we do not get some kind of political clarification before the summer break, it will be the case that there are many employees who will consider what to do and what their future is in the tax administration, or managers who will consider what to do with their budget for their department or office. So if there is no certainty about the tax administration's budget for 2020 very soon, we will see that funds for those posts may not be extended or that people may choose to move away, and that is absolutely what the tax administration needs at least right now. It may be that the Minister of Finance can comment on the budgeting process that is currently in place in the Ministry of Taxation's area of activity. If it is a budgeting process that, at the level of the budget now in place, takes care to ensure that the level we have for 2019 is at least a floor that we do not go under for 2020. The problem is, of course, that there have been many warnings, but that the problems have not really been followed up. It must also be said that there are apparently also problems in learning from the past. The restructuring that has been carried out, in which the tax administration now consists of seven governments, has been a restructuring which, according to the Danish Customs & Tax Federation, has resulted in what they call a massive loss of competence, which results in loss of income in the billions class, because, as the restructuring and relocation are currently taking place, the organisation is in many ways pulverising our tax administration and thus repeating many of the mistakes we unfortunately saw in the 2005 structural reform. In this way, unfortunately, the mistakes of the past are being repeated. At least these are the reports that come in when you talk to the professional organisations. This is one problem. Another problem is that we in the Folketing do not have a systematic follow-up to the reports coming from the State auditors either. There are the 21 reports that have been over the years, and the lack of follow-up to them is a good example, but can of course also be transferred in other areas, that is to say other areas in which the national auditors are concerned. On the part of the Enhedslisten, we think there are four very urgent problems that need to be dealt with. One is that we need to have a floor under the budget so that the cliff of 2020 will be filled and political clarification as soon as possible. We're gonna need at least a thousand extra employees in tax control. There you can choose some of the tax control projects, which I include. has asked about where there is a very, very good economy in it, i.e. where employees do not earn their own wages 5 or 10 times, but even 20 or 30 times; a business case which in the private sector at least had been carried out long ago. Recovery must be strengthened, including by means of annual work, and then we must also look at the methods of calculating how employees are thought to earn their wages. That was one of the things that I, among other things. Mr. Henrik Sass Larsen about how they are screwed together in a way that is based on common sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423194729	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so I would like to welcome Mr. Joachim B. Olsen of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423194739	Thank you for that, President. It is a little unusual for us to stand in the Chamber and talk about the approval of the state accounts, but we do, and that is fine. Normally it was something we had done in committee, which has also submitted a report, in which a unanimous committee recommends that the state accounts for 2017 be approved, just as also the State auditors and the National Audit Office have recommended, despite the fact that there is this reservation about § 38. It is well known that, unfortunately, there have been problems in the tax administration. Fortunately, there is also a broad majority in the Danish Parliament who recognizes this. That is why a great many initiatives have been taken to restore tax administration. It's necessary. But the state accounts are also being prepared for approval.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423194849	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and that is why we shall move on to Mr Beazley's report. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423194913	Thank you. And I have the pleasure of being replaced. It would normally be Christian Poll, our finance rapporteur, who stood here, but he is in the middle of a debate in North Zealand, so I will pass on his words. The alternative has followed the debate on the problems of taxation with concern and seriously looks at the concerns of the State auditors and the fact that the Kingdom auditors have made a general reservation as to whether Article 38 is correct. However, we are behind the report by a single Finance Committee and note that according to the Minister of Taxation, there is progress in the preparation of the 2018 financial statements for §38 and that the Reichsaudit believes that there has been a significant reduction in uncertainties in relation to the preparation of the 2018 financial statements. Against this background, the Alternative sets the government accounts for the financial year 2017 for approval.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423195000	Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl. There are no brief comments here either. And the next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423195023	Some of us who are Finance rapporteurs are also tax rapporteurs or have been in some of the many negotiations that have been over in the Treasury to correct the massive problems in the tax administration. And that is also part of the work that we have been discussing over the past year in relation to the state accounts for 2017 and the very critical remarks that have come from the State auditors. And we also had the State auditors visiting the Financial Committee recently, which was also stressed that when you take these steps and show up and emphasise so much that this is serious, it is not something you do regularly or on an annual basis. So it's Taxes and Taxes. However, as several of my colleagues have also mentioned, we are still suspending the approval of the 2017 state accounts. However, I would like to stress that, as I also see it, we have come from many of my colleagues from the other parties taking this very seriously. And part of the solution is that we have staffed the tax administration with enough people and in the right way, because it is both so crucial for confidence in our economy, the confidence that we, as politicians, can secure the revenue that needs to be made, but also the confidence that citizens' money will be properly managed. And in that work, there's still a lot going on. I think we should say that honestly. But from the SF we also recommend that the state accounts be approved.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423195237	Thank you. Then we move on to Mr. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423195245	Thank you. It is true, as several rapporteurs have said, that this is a rather unusual approach, but I am also aware that there is a unanimous committee which also suspends the state accounts for approval. It is clear that, of course, on the conservative side, we have also looked with concern at the fact that the National Audit Office has found this opportunity to make reservations about what concerns taxes and duties, and that is, of course, serious. I would also like to say that we have discussed this very many times in the Chamber, and over recent years we have also, on several occasions, allocated more money to rebuild the tax administration, to take initiatives to increase the number of muscles in the tax administration, but also to increase the number of employees. But, of course, it's going to take a long time. But having said that, I am actually pleased that this is something that we can often broadly agree on in here when we work on these things that are going to restore the tax administration. This certainly requires cooperation across the parties and also across the blocs, for that matter, if we are to restore the Danes' confidence in the tax administration. It is of course very important that there is confidence in that institution. So it is also very good that it is a unanimous committee that has produced this report. With those comments, I would also just like to say that, of course, we are also suspending the state accounts for approval.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423195421	Thank you, sir. Anders Johansson. And then we've come to the finance minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423195432	This is rather a special motion for a resolution, because normally the Minister goes up with a motion for a resolution and says something first, but usually there are also authors of a motion for a resolution, and here the authors of the motion for a resolution are actually the auditors of the state. And now, sir... Henrik Sass Larsen, both Social Democrat rapporteur and also State Auditor, yet he gave the speech as Social Democratic rapporteur and State Auditor, and that is why it fell in my lot to come at the end of the order here. I then used the time for, among other things. I'm just looking into it, and I'm exactly one place over Mr. Simpson. Henrik Sass Larsen in the order of seniority, so I can testify that in the approx. Twenty years we've been in the Folketing at the same time, haven't been a coincidence like this. I also think that if we had people with even longer seniority, they would say: we have not seen anything like it. Because we don't. On the other hand, you can be pleased that if you look at it, the state accounts for 2017 show a profit of 30.8 billion. DKK, and the government accounts for 2018 • it was presented on 15 March this year • has a profit of 41.8 billion. kr. This shows that the boom we are experiencing is actually used to build up some buffers for the purpose that if we were to get into a new crisis and it says all economic history that at some point we are doing so we will have the backbone, then we will have the muscles, then we will have some capital that we can use to support the Danish economy, keep our hands on employment, just as they did in 2009 and 2010, when we were hit by the international financial crisis. And one should remember that part of being able to act in times of decline is also that one also makes sure to set aside in times of rise. Therefore, in relation to the overall figures it is a strong state account, but of course it has a very special thing about it that the Reichsrevisors and the Statsrevisors have had to make reservations about the correctness of § 38. However, it has to be said that there is no indication that there are major errors or failures in Section 38, i.e. tax revenues, but there are some votes that make it unsure whether there are I am delighted that in a letter to the Finance Committee earlier this year, the Minister of Taxation has been able to note that some of the uncertainties in the 2017 financial statements have been clarified in relation to the 2018 financial statements, thereby reducing some of the uncertainties that led to the Rigsaudit having to reserve Section 38 of the 2017 financial statements. The Ministry of Finance and the Treasury have worked closely on this in the past period; ever since we received the first announcement from the Danish National Audit Office that there were such major uncertainties that it would not be possible to give an approval for section 38, there has been close cooperation, and there will continue to be. It is just to give some of the background to the state accounts that each Resort Minister is responsible for his own area, and through the Modernisation Authority the Ministry of Finance is responsible for collecting, setting up and bringing together the individual posts that are in the process. However, it is clear that the Ministry of Finance must also have a role to play in helping the ministries that have problems meeting the standard that we expect, and therefore there has been cooperation between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Taxation to get a necessary clean-up on those points where there are so many uncertainties in relation to the 2017 accounts. There are a number of rapporteurs who have mentioned the need to do something more about the tax administration. Well, I think most Danes will agree with that, which is why I am pleased to inform you that since 2015 approx. 13 billion kr. additional to the budget figures for the tax administration in 2015. When, as a government in August, we present the financial bill for 2020, we will also decide what the level should be for 2020 and beyond. However, in 2019 there will be some special one-off expenses in connection with the development of the new property tax system, which will not be necessary again in 2020 and beyond. And that is why we must constantly discuss where we spend the money best in the public sector: do we spend it on tax workers, on welfare workers, on environmental workers or on other types of employees? We will return to this in August, when the government is presenting the Finance Act. Some have also said that 1 000 extra employees should be added to the tax administration. I kind of agree with that, times 2. And that is why the government's plan has also been, and we are implementing this, to add 2 000 new employees to the tax administration, among others. with the creation of new tax centres around the country, so that tax administration will be present in several places. I know that the Minister of Taxation hardly dared to say this, but I am delighted that he has nevertheless had the opportunity to say that the new recovery system came into force on 22 February to replace the EFI system which was put into effect in 2013 but which never came to work because the IT base underneath was not good enough to carry out effective recovery. This means that in a number of areas we now have the opportunity to carry out recovery. Among other things: when the tax administration recently paid out excess tax, a large number of Danes with debts to the government, who saw that instead of receiving their excess tax and they then still had a debt item, it was taken into account to settle the debt item they had, or parts of it, depending on the amount of debt and the amount of excess tax involved. So there are signs that the IRS is improving. There are indications that the tax administration has been given resources that will enable them to do better than what we have seen in the past, but I dare not say that we are still in the process of achieving that, and therefore it is a good idea that the parties across the Folketing, across the normal political divides, are trying to come together to make a comprehensive agreement on the tax administration. Some have called it a truce, a truce or a national agreement about it, and this, in fact, has been made a long way along the way by the current tax minister, an agreement on what needs to be done in the future. I hope that we can get back to this so that we do not take the material work of the tax administration... tax policy is something else... as part of the political game... but that we agree once again to make a broad political agreement on how to ensure a long-term strategy for the tax administration to have the right resources to do the task that needs to be done. When Mr. Rune Lund mentions that it is important that we quickly clarify what the framework for the tax administration is forward-looking, I would just like to say that there are no parts of the government administration, unless there is a political settlement in the area there is guaranteed what the budget will be in the coming years. Yes, we have budget estimates in the budget law, but it is when the government makes its draft budget in August for the coming financial year that there is a final estimate of what the framework will be, and that means that there is an opportunity to adjust up and adjust down there, and that is where you put forward what you mean forward. As I said, since 2015, we have added approx. 13 billion DKK 2,1 billion at the latest. kr. other on the Finance Act now here, i.e. The draft budget, tabled in August last year, has helped us to see this positive advance which has just taken place. In fact, I believe that lessons have been learnt from the past. At any rate, we have tried to learn lessons from the past, and among other things. Therefore, instead of setting up an IT system for recovery, which should solve all the problems at once, it has been decided to say that you now start with some of what is basic, even if it does not solve all the challenges, but makes it run and then builds on further forward. I hope that we can continue the good cooperation with both the National Audit Office and the State Auditors in order to clarify the uncertainties around § 38. I dare not say today whether the National Audit Office on the 2018 accounts can completely remove their reservations or there will still be a remnant of reservations left. It is certainly our ambition on the part of the Ministry of Finance, my ambition as Minister of Finance and the ambition of the government, that we should do everything we can to try to avoid having a similar case with a similar reservation next year when we discuss the state accounts for 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423200418	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henrik Sass Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423200422	Thank you for your answer. I would just like to say for the record that, on behalf of the Social Democrats at least, I was trying to make a non-polemically responsible speech. But more importantly, the question of principle was raised here. So I just want to say that the Tax Commission is going to look at who's responsible for us ending up with this miser. It will be then. What was errand too, I think, on behalf of the National Auditors, was that, in fact, the actual, quite ordinary accounting is just going to be put in order, so that we know what is right and what is wrong, and not a particular opinion as to whether the deficit was large or small. It was not, in fact, a political mark of it, but I am just saying quite peacefully and quietly that if we cannot trust it, it will start to pinch for all of us. So that was the errand here, and no such reproach or praise or anything else in relation to the doings and barn of certain governments in this respect.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423200522	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423200523	Well, I look forward very much to the Tax Commission explaining who has made what decisions at what times along the way. And it wasn't my business here either; my business was just because some had mentioned a desire for, for example, 1,000 more employees, to say that we have already planned to hire 2,000 more employees. So it was actually an answer to some comments that were. I fully acknowledge that the State auditors have had a very sober approach to the discussion here... the factual approach that we have a shared responsibility and a common interest in ensuring that the basis on which the state accounts are based is as accurate as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423200559	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423200606	When we say 1,000 extras, we actually mean tax control. This is one of the areas that has received very little, while some of the areas that were strengthened, for example. was the property assessment system and the reason why, among other things, we were: I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Especially in relation to some control projects in the field of VAT, it is quite wild sums that each tax worker pulls home, and it is just strange that you do not have any more control over the economy, that is to say, on the basis of crowns in the box principle, as you do, for example. do so in the municipalities where you can see that there really is a sensible business case in hiring some more control officers. For those who are there have something to do, from the meetings in the morning, until they go home in the afternoon, and there are plenty of tasks they do not reach, and if they had been able to reach them, it would have given a very large extra revenue. So the extra employees that are needed are actually for tax control, which has not received so much. However, I have to deal with some of what the Minister of Finance said. Because what I actually heard was that the Minister for Finance said that there will actually be a continuation of the allocation by 2020. That is at least the aim of the Minister of Finance, and then there are some individual costs, some one-off investments, which must be deducted from the floor that will lie. Is that how it's supposed to be understood? Because if that is what has been decided, then I really think that the Minister for Finance should say it a little higher, because it will give a great deal of quiet in the tax administrations.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423200730	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423200731	I just said that, in 2019, there are some one-off costs relating to the new property assessment system and therefore, in my view, not necessarily need to be continued in the future. Then I went on to say that in August we will put forward what we think there should be. So I'm not gonna get stuck on a level today. However, I would like to say that we are willing to invest the money that is needed in the future too in ensuring that the tax administration has both individual and collective legal certainty in mind. The individual means the guarantee that each taxpayer pays the right thing to do, and no more, and the collective one, that the neighbour does the same; that is, that both tax collection and recovery can be trusted that the rules that apply to oneself also apply to the surrounding society. Because if the collective sense of justice in tax matters disappears, there will be a great many who will try to use all sorts of loopholes or bends or illegals in order to avoid paying what you have to pay to the community.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423200842	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423200844	I don't think I got the very clear message there, and I'm actually terribly sorry about that. Because this means that there is still uncertainty about the tax administration's budget for 2020, and that it is only very late that we are talking on the other side of the summer break that there will be some kind of preliminary clarification. I would really like a political agreement or an understanding text to be drawn up, saying: the level of operation we have in 2019 is the floor for 2020, so that the uncertainty is not created that makes people start looking away or looking for other work, or that bosses may start considering after the summer break whether they can afford to continue temporary jobs, etc. etc. Then there is the question of temporary investment. Well, there's plenty of them running out all the time. That is, of course, the whole way to invest in IT systems, and that is, you might say, capital investment. But we have to say there too that we in the Committee on Finance can see from the records that there will be many, many more investments, even within this calendar year. So temporary appropriations are something that we will see being added to the budget that is, because it is simply necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423200954	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423200955	Then I am glad that at least we agree that temporary appropriations are not necessarily the starting point for long-term operations. And then I would just like to repeat that I was actually pleased that we had a national agreement for a transitional period, a broad compromise on taxation and calm in this area. So some have gone away from it again afterwards. I hope we can get back to that. Because I believe that's what the IRS needs. After periods when there has been both a marked decline in the number of people employed, I know that because I myself was a minister back nine years ago and earlier and now in recent years have been a significant increase in employment, there is therefore a need for greater clarity, preferably politically speaking, for what the future is for the tax administration.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423201039	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for the floor. That is why the debate is closed. Is there a request for referral to committee? As this is not the case, it was a very cautious 'no' by the Minister, the proposal goes directly to the second and last reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20190423201102	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting today, apart from thanking everyone for their efforts in the service of the people. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 24 April 2019 at 10:00. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
