ParlaMint-DK_20190621130022	The sitting is open and I ask Members to find their seats.
ParlaMint-DK_20190621130058	I shall give the floor to the chairman of the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, Mr. Benny Engelbrecht. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190621130124	Thank you, President. As chairman of the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I can give the following information on the work of the committee, referring at the same time to the published report and recommendation. As usual, the work concerned three questions: firstly, the validity of the electoral procedure, including the preparation of the elections, the vote, the counting of the ballot papers themselves, the evaluation of them and the voting books, etc. In this connection, the Committee took a position on a number of complaints concerning various aspects of the elections. Secondly, the work has concerned the issue of approving the statements and calculations of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Interior. Thirdly, it has dealt with the question of the approval of candidates who have obtained elections. On the validity of the electoral procedure, I can say that we in the committee have examined the statement by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Interior, which includes, among other things, the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. contains the observations which the examination of ballot papers and election book transcripts gave rise to by the Ministry. We have also received and dealt with 33 electoral complaints through the Ministry and expressed our views on each complaint. With regard to the election procedure, the Ministry's statement has shown that there have been significantly fewer and less serious errors in the drafting of ballot papers at this election than in the past. Of course, we can only welcome this. In the 2015 parliamentary elections, there were some errors in the ballot papers that led to complaints and critical remarks from the committee, so it is good that it has been tightened up. The Ministry's statement also shows that in a large number of polling books from the polling stations comments have been made about problems with correspondence votes. Part of this is about the mixing of letter voting material, as a result of the overlap between the periods of letter voting for the European Parliament and the parliamentary elections and the fact that the letter voting material for the two types of election is almost identical. It has also caused various electoral complaints. We must note that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Interior has made an effort to guide the municipalities, but this has not prevented all confusion. The Ministry has now stated that in the later production of letter voting material, further consideration will be given to how it should look in order to reduce the risk of confusion. As in the last parliamentary elections, there have been a number of cases where voters have been unhappy about having to give their date of birth before they could obtain a ballot. It's not just the women! It is a legal requirement to do so, and of course it serves a security purpose. However, it seems that not all voters are equally enthusiastic about it. The question that has been raised by more than anyone else in the committee has been the much-discussed problem of collecting electoral declarations, where at least two parties have found a way of circumventing the rules, so that they do not have the time to think about their authors and not have the impression that the ministry has thought that it could be legally sanctioned, for example. by declaring the electoral declarations invalid. The committee has made a critical comment on this following a complaint from a constituent. The Committee shall have, inter alia: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the committee basically finds it very unsatisfactory that it has proved possible for the parties to circumvent the rules without having had any concrete consequences. At the same time, the Committee noted with satisfaction that a political agreement had been reached in March of this year between all parties of the Folketing at that time to address the problem of introducing a new procedure for collecting electoral declarations based on a public portal system. The political agreement provides for such a solution to be put into operation as soon as possible and for the relevant legislative changes to be made during the 2019-20 parliamentary year. But in addition to that there has been a widespread desire in the committee to see whether something can be done on the shorter track as well. That is why we have noted with satisfaction that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Interior has expressed its willingness to work quickly to find a temporary solution to the problem, even before a portal solution can be up and running, provided, of course, that the future government will promote the matter. The Committee has expressed the view that such a temporary solution should ensure that electoral declarations collected in breach of the rules can be declared null and void. I would refer you to the report and the recommendation about what has been complained about in the elections and about the committee's comments on the complaints. On the question of approval of the statement and calculations of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Interior, the Committee has examined their approval and the overall statements and calculations have not given rise to any comments from the committee. With regard to the question of the approval of the elected representatives, the committee has not been aware of any circumstances which might lead to the inability of any of the elected representatives to choose. The Committee then has the following recommendations: As regards the elections in Denmark, the Committee agrees that on 5 June 2019 the Danish Parliament will approve the election of members of the Danish Parliament, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Interior on 18 June 2019 the calculations and the calculation of this election and the 175 candidates selected on the separate list as from 5 June 2019 onwards, with the exception that, pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee shall: 3 states that the First Deputy of the Enhedslisten in East Jutland's Storkreds, Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, approved as elected instead of Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, who has indicated that he does not wish to receive the mandate. With regard to the elections in Greenland, a unanimous committee recommends that the Folketing, pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 6, on the basis of the provisional statement submitted by the Kingdom Ombudsman in Greenland on 5 June 2019, Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen and Mrs Aki-Mathilda Høegh-Dam-Dam who elected from 5 June 2019. As regards the election in the Faroe Islands, a unanimous committee recommends that the Danish Parliament approve the election in the Faroe Islands on 5 June 2019 of the members of the Folketing, the statement made by the electoral board and the calculation of this election and Mr. Edmund Joensen and Mr. Sjúrður Skaale who elected from 5 June 2019. Therefore, on behalf of the committee, I should like to recommend to the House the committee's recommendations. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190621130820	Thank you to the chairman of the Committee on the Verification of Credentials. There are three recommendations from Denmark, Greenland and the Faroe Islands, as we have heard, and the recommendation is for approval of the elections. It is therefore my intention, as in previous elections, that the vote should take place in one on the three recommendations.
ParlaMint-DK_20190621130837	The vote will therefore be taken on the committee's recommendation No. 1-3 on the elections in Denmark, Greenland and the Faroe Islands, respectively, and a vote can be taken. The vote is over. In favour of 149 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT, NB, LA, IA, SIU and SP), against which 0 abstained 0. Due to a technical error, Stén Knuth (V) was not given his vote. The Committee's position has been unanimously adopted. After that, all the seats of the newly elected Parliament have been approved. However, before we proceed to the next item on the agenda, I shall suspend the sitting so that those Members who have not previously been Members can sign the constitution. According to Paragraph 32 of the Constitution, they must do so. In fact, they must give a solemn assurance that they will comply with the Basic Law. And this is happening right down here in the Chamber immediately after I suspend the sitting. I shall therefore suspend the sitting. It will resume at 1 p.m. 14.00 in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20190621140018	The sitting is resumed. The Constitution has been signed, and I stand here with a recommendation from all parties, all of which recommend that we elect Henrik Dam Kristensen as the new President of the Danish Parliament. I hereby pronounce Henrik Dam Kristensen elected and ask him to come up to take his well-deserved place.
ParlaMint-DK_20190621140157	Thank you to the Members of Things for showing me the confidence you have shown me by electing me as new chairman of the Folketing. I'm honored, and I go to the task with humility. Trust is a fragile size which one must constantly earn through one's actions. I am very aware of that. I will put all my strength into being the representative of the whole parliament, and I will treat everyone equally, fairly and fairly regardless of party color. It is important for me to be a uniting person who, together with the Bureau, creates the best possible framework for parliamentary work and ensures good working conditions for all those who have their day-to-day work here in the Folketing. This is, of course, the case primarily with the Members, but also with the many skilled staff in the administration and in the party groups. I have had the pleasure of being a member of the Folketing for 25 years, but I am also very aware that I am now in a position which differs from my previous political activity. The Danish people's government is a shared responsibility, and I will make my contribution to continuing and safeguarding the values of the parliamentary work. Thank you again for the election. And then we move on to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20190621140329	As regards the election of the Vice-President, Section 3 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Folketing states: 1: Each of the four largest parliamentary groups represented in the Things, in addition to the parliamentary group to which the Chairman may belong, shall appoint in order of size among its members, the first, the second, the third and the fourth Vice-Presidents respectively. ▪ For the first Vice-President, the Left has appointed Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. The second Vice-President and the third Vice-President must be appointed by the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left; the two parties are, as we know, equal. There has been agreement between the parties that the second Vice-President will be Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, appointed by the Danish People's Party, and that the third Vice-President will be Mr Pia Kjærsgaard. Jens Rohde, designated by the Radical Left. Fourth Vice-President, Mrs Trine Torp is appointed by the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190621140421	In accordance with the constitution of the electoral federations and the group's recommendation, the following members have been elected: Benny Engelbrecht (S), Mr. Christian Juhl (EL), Mr. Erling Bonnesen (V) and Mr. Bent Bøgsted (DF). That's how things are set.
ParlaMint-DK_20190621140439	The following electoral groups were notified: a group of 99 members: Social Democracy, Radical Left, Socialist People's Party, Enhedslisten, Alternativet, Inuit Ataqatigiit (IA), Siumut (SIU) and Javnaðarflokkurin (JF), a group of 80 members: Left, Danish People's Party, Conservative People's Party, New Civil, Liberal Alliance and Sambandsflokkurin (SP). There are recommendations from the groups on these elections. The names of the elected can be found on the Danish Parliament's website and www.folktingstidende.dk (cf. (see below). The election was: 1 Benny Engelbrecht (S) 2 Bjarne Laustsen (S) 3 Henrik Dam Kristensen (S) 4 Dan Jørgensen (S) 5 Orla Hav (S) 6 Nick Hækkerup (S) 7 Jens Rohde (RV) 8 Jacob Mark (SF) 9 Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF) 10 Peter Juel-Jensen-Jensen (V) 11 Kristian Pihl Lorentzen (V) 12 Anni Matthiesen (V) 13 Kristian Jensen (V) 14 Karen Ellemann (V) 15 Bent Bøgsted (DF) 16 Mai Mercado (KF) 17 Mette Thiesen (NB) Election of 21 members of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. 1 Henrik Dam Kristensen (S) 2 Kristian Pihl Lorentzen (V) 3 Pia Kjærsgaard (DF) 4 Jens Rohde (RV) 5 Trine Torp (SF) 6 Benny Engelbrecht (S) 7 Dan Jørgensen (S) 8 Bjarne Laustsen (S) 9 Orla Hav (S) 10 Nick Hækkerup (S) 11 Sofie Carsten Nielsen (RV) 12 Jacob Mark (SF) 13 Jakob Sølvhøj (EL) 14 Uffe Elbæk (ALT) 15 Karen Ellemann (V) 16 Torsten Schack Pedersen (V) 17 Britt Bager (V) 18 Peter Skaarup (DF) 19 Mai Mercado (KF) 20 Pernille Vermund (NB) 21 Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (LA) Chairman: Henrik Dam Kristensen (S) Vice-President: Kristian Pihl Lorentzen (V) Election of 17 members to the Finance Committee. The election was: 1 Benny Engelbrecht (S) 2 Jesper Petersen (S) 3 Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen-Jørgensen (S) 4 Morten Bødskov (S) 5 Henrik Dam Kristensen (S) 6 Martin Lidegaard (RV) 7 Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF) 8 Rune Lund (EL) 9 Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT) 10 Kristian Jensen (V) 11 Jacob Jensen (V) 12 Marcus Knuth (V) 13 Hans Andersen (V) 14 Torsten Schack Pedersen (V) 15 René Christensen (DF) 16 Rasmus Jarlov (KF) 17 Ole Birk Olesen (LA) Chairman: Benny Engelbrecht (S) Election of 29 members to the European Committee. 26Rasmussen AslanS) 3 Kaare Dybvad (S) 4 Jens Joel (Bech) 5 Male Larsen (Orla) 6 Morten Bødskov (S) 7 Christian Rabjerg Madsen PeterSeierØsterby 8 Sofie Carsten Nielsen (RV) 9 Katrine Robsøe (RV) 10 Samira Nawa (RV) 11 Strøjer-Schmidt Strøder-Schmidt (SF) 12 Karsten Hønge (SF) 13 Søren Søndergaard (EL) 14 Peder Hvelplund (EL) 15 Victoria Velasquez (EL) 16 Rasmus Nordqvist (ALTSkibby 17 Jan E. Jørgensen KatarinaAmmitzbøll) 18 Marcus Knuth (V) 19 Erling Bonnesen (V) 20 Britt Bager (Christensen) 21 Mads Fugerde (V) 22 Thomas Danielsen (VHans 23 Kristian Jensen (V) 24Morten Mester Messerschmidt (V) 29V) 25 Lassesby PeterVHummelgaard 25 Lise (V. (S) Tel. (S) Jørgensen Dan Juel-Jensen PeterSMorten Michael Aastrup. JensenKristianJensen 25 Søndergaard (SUffe 25 Østergaard (PeterSkaarup 25 Søren Pape PoulsenLarsenSimon 29 33 Søren Knuth (S) 29 33 Espersen KristianThulesenDahl Frederiksen DamKristensenMartin 29 33 Hækkerup KristianAmmitzbøll-BillePihl Lorentzen (SjúrðurSkaale 29 33 Aaja KarstenChristensen) Elbæk RasmussenSeierNas 29 33 Engelbrecht (KhadAne Halsboe-Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190621140520	There is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 25 June 2019 at 10:00. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website and will also refer to the weekly schedule that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. Then I will invite you to a reception in the Hiking Hall, where everyone is warmly welcome.
