ParlaMint-DK_20190410130026	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Tax Minister (Karsten Lauritzen): Bill no. L 223 (Proposal for a Law amending the Chocolate Tax Act, law on various excise duties, law on excise duties on ice-cream, VAT and the Registration Tax Act. Consigning stocks, chain trading and combating VAT fraud in EU trade, and changes concerning: the import and export of second-hand vehicles), Bill No. L 224 (Proposal for a law amending the law on child and youth benefits and the law on tax-free compensation for increased energy and environmental taxes. Bill No. L 225 (Proposal for a law amending the law on taxation of profits in the disposal of immovable property, the law on equations and various other laws. Jens Joel (S), Mikkel Dencker (DF), Thomas Danielsen (V), Søren Egge Rasmussen (EL), Carsten Bach (LA), Christian Poll (ALT), Ida Auken (RV), Pia Olsen Dyhr (SF) and Orla Østerby (KF): Request no. F 42 (What can the Minister say about the Government's future energy policy initiatives in the light of the energy policy statement?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate has informed me that he wishes to do so in accordance with Article 19 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. 4, to give the Danish Parliament a written Energy Policy statement 2019. R 15). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on Friday, 3 May 2019. From the Prime Minister, I have received a letter stating that, following the Prime Minister's recommendation by Royal Resolution of 2 April 2019, it was decided that the responsibility for various IT tasks relating to the Rhythmic Academy of Music was transferred from the Minister of Culture to the Minister of Public Innovation. The message will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk (cf. (see below). According to my recommendation, the Royal Resolution of 2 April 2019 provides that the responsibility for all tasks, contracts and service agreements relating to basic IT operation of internal data centres, networks, servers and storage, operation of operating systems, standard IT workspace, service desk and user management, information security tasks relating to senior data centres as well as contracts and supply management tasks relating to outsourced IT operations related to the Rhythmic Music Conservatory is transferred from the Minister of Culture and the Minister of Public Innovation to the Minister of Culture to the Minister of Public Innovation per year. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years under Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). I would ask the President to inform the Folketing accordingly. Sign. Lars Løkke Rasmussen I have to inform you that there has been a questioner, Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democrat, on question No. 3, S 759 to the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410130224	The first question concerns the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior of Benny Engelbrecht, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410130236	Go ahead and read.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410130238	Thank you, Mr President. Does the Minister agree that on the basis of the party's 2030 plan, the Liberal Alliance has a vision of a Danish society that is significantly different from the Danish welfare society we know today?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410130252	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410130254	Different and different, it's a question of how to weigh the words. I would say significantly better, significantly richer, significantly more free choices for the individual Dane. It will be a society that will offer more opportunities. I would like to thank you for your interest in the 2030 plan of the Liberal Alliance. Benny Engelbrecht's side. After all, we want to have a society in which the individual has more opportunities, in which we guarantee the future of our welfare society, and where we also make sure that talented people from all over the world want to come to Denmark and live and work and invest. So a society where there are more opportunities. It acts among other things. that we want to ensure that the individual Dane gets more money between his hands, so that you can make more choices yourself, for example. to get a more environmentally friendly car so that you can make sure that your children can go to a free school, you can make sure that you can get some help at home, or even, if you want to, you can retire a few years earlier than you want to, because you can make that choice yourself, instead of it being up to the state to do it. It is even the case that we are also making sure not only to spend the money on tax cuts, but we are also making sure that there is money for more elderly people and children in Denmark in the next decade, so that we can ensure that the costs can be kept up with there too. So, yes, we give more money to the individual, more opportunities for the individual, more freedom for the individual, and at the same time, we secure our welfare society with the precisely Liberal Alliance 2030 plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410130439	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410130440	Thank you. And thank you for the praise that we are interested in what a government party is presenting of independent political proposals. After all, we in the Folketing do so for the obvious reason that the present government may not, perhaps, go to elections as a general government; one might in fact have some doubt about it, but nevertheless one must assume that what the Liberal Alliance wants to vote on is also politics that one wants to implement if an election result should occur in such a way that the current government continues. In other words, when, for example, the Minister talks about freedom and more money for the individual tax concessions, as the rest of us call it, it is part of what the Liberal Alliance wants a future government to implement if it is the case that the Liberal Alliance continues in government. Part of the Minister's review was also about personal individual freedom, and I remember the Minister being very precise in the past when he said that there was no real justification for cows, for example. was about what welfare tasks could be outsourced. Therefore, I would really like to know whether it is still the aim of both the government and the Liberal Alliance to outsource more of the core welfare tasks, such as care for the elderly and the like, in a future parliamentary term. Because, as the Minister said in his reply, there are several of the tasks that need to be dealt with, and that sounds like an outsourcing exercise.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410130640	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410130641	As far as gaining more influence is concerned, it can happen in a number of ways. This can be done by introducing more free choice so that the citizen can make the choice himself; it can be done by giving tax cuts so that they can afford to make the choice. This means that instead of discussing how much you get for 3 billion. kr., when it comes to retirement before retirement, simply put the tax down in a way so that the individual citizen, if he wishes to retire sooner, can make the choice entirely himself, without the questioner, I or others having to decide it for him. In relation to outsourcing, it is our policy that there may be more competition, and that is the government's policy, which is why we have concluded an agreement with the National Association of Municipalities that they should put more turbo on the competition exposure in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410130729	Here you go, sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410130730	That does not, of course, answer my question as to whether it is a stated objective that there should be further compulsory procurement. This isn't about making any declarations of intent. As I understand it, the government and the minister have been arguing in the past not only that statements should be made, but that we should also have some real objectives, including making demands on the municipalities. Is this something that will also be part of what the Liberal Alliance and the government are going to vote on?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410130808	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410130809	I think the questioner is messing with the issue of outsourcing and competition. What has been the position of the government, and still is, is that we want to see more competition postponed and not forced procurement. After all, in the event of competition being postponed, it can be both a private company and the public sector that is responsible for the task. The point is that we have said to the KL that we are now making an agreement that they must ensure that the competition ban is lifted, and if they do not, we will return and have a desire to make legislation. It is the position of the government that it was at the time of its accession, it has been during the entire parliamentary term, and it remains the position of the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410130844	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410130845	So just one final comment: after all, this is not the case if there is a retirement age in Denmark which gives a right to go on, for example. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done. It might almost sound as if what the Minister is trying to say is that the Social Democrats' desire to be able to offer and give people the right to have a differentiated retirement age is the same as that we will force them to retire at any given time. I must stress that it is not.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410130926	Thank you. And here you go to the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410130927	Well, I totally agree. So what is the case with the social democracy proposal is that no one really knows who it is. What is certain about the 2030 plan of the Liberal Alliance is that all Danes who go to work get more money between their hands, and thus they can choose whether to retire earlier. Full freedom you can just retire 1 year, 2 years, 3 years earlier if that's what you want. Because you're gonna be able to afford that with Liberal Alliance policy. With the policy of social democracy, no one knows whether it is them or anyone else.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410130952	Thank you. The next question is to the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate, by Mr. Mikkel Dencker, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410131000	Read it. Read it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410131003	Thank you, President. How does the Minister expect that the British experience with BECCS (Bio Energy Carbon Capture and Storage) can be used in Denmark and help us achieve our CO2 reduction targets in Denmark Since it was an English abbreviation, I will also allow myself to take it in Danish, and it stood for: bioenergy with CO2 capture and storage
ParlaMint-DK_20190410131024	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410131025	Thank you, sir. Mikkel Dencker for the question. I share the questioner's interest in the area and actually see great perspectives in the storage of CO2 There are great opportunities in that perspective. Together with the author's party, we have set an objective in the energy agreement that we should be climate neutral by 2050 at the latest. If we are to achieve that objective, we cannot do it alone by reducing CO2 Then we have to look at the possibilities of also storing CO2 That is also the reason why the government has chosen to prioritise 100 million. kr. to a Danish effort, just as we held an international conference here in Copenhagen a few months ago, focusing on storage opportunities, and we received both national and international input at that conference. I am convinced that there are great potentials here, which we must also support from both government and parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410131130	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410131131	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I'm glad we share interest in this field. There is no doubt that if we are to achieve the target of 2050, which all parties here in the Danish Parliament have put themselves behind in connection with the energy agreement last year, new technologies must be put into use where it is both about how to store CO2 so I am pleased to hear that this is a field that the government will address. So I would like to hear from the Minister: is this a field for which the government will give priority in the future to the allocation of research funds? For it is clear that it is a technology which is in its own, one might say, a small beginning, where concrete results have only just been seen in Britain, but which still require a good piece of work and research before one is able to roll it out on a large scale. So is this something for which the government will give priority to research funds?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410131250	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410131251	I would like to make a commitment to that. I think this is very, very important. Sir. Mikkel Dencker is right that we have challenges both in terms of storing CO2 As we build up an energy supply where we increasingly depend on whether the wind blows and the sun shines, we are also at times dependent on being able to store energy. It is therefore obvious to look at what experiences there are elsewhere. Today it has to be said that storage is relatively expensive. There is a lack of purely technological solutions in the size we would like to have, but I agree with the questioner that we should work on that and therefore it also requires us to set aside money for research in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410131333	Sir. Mikkel Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410131334	I am pleased to hear that this is a priority for the government as well. Now it is the case that we have many support schemes for renewable energy at the moment, which will eventually be phased out. The level of aid has been relatively high, but technological developments have meant that aid is no longer so much needed. The government and the Danish People's Party have together helped to dismantle and also renew some support schemes, so is it also something that the government will look at, i.e. whether some of the money that has been spent so far on support schemes could be spent on research rather than on research?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410131412	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410131413	That is an absolute possibility. I am very pleased with the cooperation that has been between the government and the Danish People's Party to dismantle and reduce support for renewable energy. It has actually happened that with the latest tender, we are down to 2.5 cents per year. kilowatt-hour in support of new wind and sun. A few years ago, 25 cents were given per penny. kilowatt-hour, so you can say very much that some money has been saved. And that offers opportunities when you save money on this scale to give priority, if there is political will to do so, to the money to where you can say the technology is not yet ready to stand on its own feet.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410131455	Sir. Mikkel Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410131456	Thank you for the answer that pleases me. I can also look back on the fact that there have been some good agreements between the government and the Danish People's Party to reduce support for renewable energy, and that is not because neither the government nor the Danish People's Party like renewable energy, but simply because technology is so developed that there is no longer any need for support at the same level as there has been so far. So it is only gratifying that there will be some available funds that can be given a different priority. Then we can enter into a discussion on whether it is research into even more new technology that they should be used for. In any case, we in the Danish People's Party are prepared to look at this, and I am pleased that the government has the same view of the matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410131538	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410131539	Thank you, sir. Mikkel Dencker. This applies both to research, but also to demonstration, to experimental facilities on a larger scale. I'd like to see that very, very much. We have seen it on a smaller scale, but if it is to have a real effect on security of supply, then it has to be on a rather larger scale than what we have seen so far, and it has to be said that it takes research and development to achieve it. Thank you for the question. I would like to do my best and also in cooperation with the Danish People's Party, which has proved very constructive on this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410131611	Thank you. The question is closed. The next question is to the Minister for Health, and that is by Astrid Krag. There is also a questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410131621	Here you go to the questioner to read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410131624	Thank you for that, President. Can the Minister confirm the opinion of Mai Mercado, Minister for Children and Social Affairs, in the debate on the DR on 28 March, that the National Board of Health Services Denmark, appointed by the Ministry of Health, may decide to close down a hospital?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410131643	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410131644	Thank you for the question. Health reform does not change the current hospital structure, and this applies to the 21 emergency hospitals as well as to the other hospitals in Denmark. Health reform is about ensuring more closeness for patients, more coherence for patients, strengthening patients' rights throughout the country and raising quality so that we have a stronger health service that is closer to where we live. That is why, in the discussion we have now had in the Chamber, it is very many times prompted by the Socialist campaign that scares the country around, that hospitals should be closed down, quite the opposite that we want with the proximity fund of the 8.5 billion. kr., namely to ensure more health services closer to where people live. As highlighted by the Minister for Children and Social Affairs in the discussion programme to which reference is made, responsibility for the operation of hospitals is placed in the individual health services. But it is clear that a health management board will not be able to take decisions that go against the annual development plan, which is decided by the government in collaboration with the Danish Parliament and Health Service. In the future, it will be the boards of the five health authorities that will have operational responsibility for the hospitals, including planning the hospital structure, but we also want to have a stronger anchoring in the municipalities, and this will be done through the health communities, which will, of course, have a much stronger role in planning. Among other things: with the new structure, we will ensure that there are representatives in the health communities from all municipalities, so that all the citizens of the municipalities are represented through the mayor and the health committee chairman, and there will also be three representatives in the management boards of the five health administrations who have a municipal foundation and who have been appointed through the health communities and anchored in different health communities, so that we guarantee both a right of consultation for health communities and a strong local anchoring in relation to the future decisions of our health services.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410131858	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410131859	Thank you to the Minister for that answer, although I have to say that I do not think I learned more from it. It is therefore not to be polemical; it is because it seems to me and I also know a number of others completely unclear what is the answer here, because we have heard so many different versions of non-answers from the government that it was liberating when the Minister for Children and Social Affairs was so clear in the debate on DR and said that it is a decision that can lie both in the Danish Health Service and in the five regional administrations. And I do not know whether the Minister for Health so says today that it was right or that it was not right, so perhaps it can just be clearly confirmed that it was the right interpretation that the Minister for Children and Social Affairs made, or whether it was wrong what she said. Because, unfortunately, after the initial answer, I have not become wiser. The point here is, of course, that with the huge reform that the government is doing and which changes the structures of our health services and centralises a great deal, it is unclear who can decide to close a hospital. Today, as a citizen, one knows that one can go to one's regional council, to one's elected regional politician, who, incidentally, has to continue every four years when there are elections when he or she is in elections democratically if one wants to fight for his or her local hospital. That is the very simple question that we are trying to get an answer to from the government. I think we are up to the point that the Social Democratic Party has asked both the Minister for Health and the Prime Minister 15 times overall and I know that the Minister for Health finds that annoying who will be able to make that decision, and therefore also who it is you as a citizen should go to if you want to fight to preserve a hospital that is otherwise threatened with closure. That's what I'm asking you. I do not ask whether there is a right of consultation in a health community unless what the Minister says to me is that it is the health community that can decide to close a hospital. And I didn't get it that way. It is therefore only an appeal to the Minister to take a specific view of whether the description given by the Minister for Children and Social Affairs was correct, namely that decisions on hospital closures can be taken in the Danish Health Service and in the five regional administrations.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410132107	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410132108	Yes, and I have answered it several times. But I know that the Socialists do not want either to hear the answer or to answer the answer, because the Socialists want to tour Denmark around with claims that we will close Roskilde Hospital, we will close Tønder Hospital, we will close Nyborg Hospital, even if it is factually wrong. Health reform does not alter the current hospital structure, either for the 21 emergency hospitals or for the other hospitals. Perhaps that is why the Socialists continue to ask the same question. It is because the Socialists want to create insecurity among the Danes. It will be the case in the future that, through their mayor and their health committee chairman, everyone will have a much clearer local voice in the decisions taken, both in the health communities and through the municipal representatives on our health administration boards.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410132159	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410132200	I am therefore sorry, but it was not an answer to who can make decisions about hospital closures unless what the minister there was trying to say to me is that it is in the health communities, that is, where the mayors sit, that those decisions are made, and that would be something completely new, that that is what we are getting in response today. I would just like to say that when we are concerned about future hospital closures and the Prime Minister himself has replied to my President, Mette Frederiks, that there can of course be changes in our health services in the future, and that would be strangely different from what we would like to know where these decisions are made. Who is it you have to go to? Are these the appointed directors of the five regional administrations? Is it the appointed board of Health Services Denmark? Who should be affected as a citizen? Who decides to close a hospital? It's just what we're trying to get an answer to.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410132248	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410132250	Well, health reform isn't about closing hospitals. The Health Reform Agreement does not change the hospital structure we have, and I know that the Socialists are touring the country and claiming that. That's why this discussion is going to be a little absurd. As I said at the outset, it will be the boards of the five health services that will have operational responsibility for hospitals, including the planning of hospital structures. After all, on those boards there will be municipal politicians who are also anchored in the health communities, who will represent different health communities. Health communities also want to have a right of consultation in relation to decisions relating to major changes, which is why this will be largely localized. As it is today, you will be able to use your health committee chairman and your mayor in the future as a local voice in relation to the interests you have in a local area.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410132341	Thank you. Then there's an enquirer, sir. Benny Engelbrecht. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410132346	If, in the course of the municipal reform last decade, the question had been put to the municipalities and to the then Minister for the Interior, who today is Prime Minister, whether the municipalities should close town halls and community services, then I am sure that the answer could have been given, that it was not the intention of the municipal reform, that citizens' services and town halls should be closed. However, the consequence of this was that that was what happened, and that is why, of course, we simply allow ourselves to find out, whatever the intention of the government may be, who actually has the power to do so. What was, after all, the advantage of the municipal reform was that at least it was known that competence was in the individual municipality. So the question here is simply the simple one: what exactly is this competence, which lies in the health administration in the Danish Health Service and in these health communities? So who is it that has specific decision-making powers, for example? Specialist distribution?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410132456	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410132457	I have answered that several times, and I replied to that at the outset. And that is also what was highlighted by the Minister for Children and Social Affairs in the programme on which the question arises, namely that the responsibility for the operation of the hospitals is placed in the individual health authorities and that, of course, decisions can not be taken on the board of health authorities that go against the annual development plan which will be concluded between the government in consultation with the Danish Parliament and the Danish Health Service. In other words, a development plan clearly cements that it is necessary, for example. for geographical reasons to take some very special consideration in relation to Bornholm, if we just have to take it as an example, because we well know that Bornholm is in a special situation. Therefore Bornholm is also specifically described in the Health Act together with two other hospitals. If, in a development plan, in the annual development plan, it is described, for example, that there is an increase in the number of young people in the labour market. It is clear that a health management board will not be able to take a decision against the development plan. And that is what the question that has been asked today is about, namely what the Minister for Children and Social Affairs said in the programme in question, namely when decisions can be taken. It will not be possible to do so up to the annual development plan, but otherwise it will be so forward-looking that the boards of the five health services will have operational responsibility for the hospitals. And there will then be consultation rights from the health communities, and the health communities will also be represented on the board.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410132625	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410132626	So in other words, when you can quote the Minister for Social Affairs to say that that decision can be both up in the Danish Health Service and that it can also lie down in the administration, is that what is right and correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410132644	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410132645	As I replied and have answered several times now, it is the case that in the future it will be the boards of the five health services which have operational responsibility for hospitals, including planning and hospital structure. After all, there are three representatives on that board who are municipally anchored through the health communities and represent different health communities. After all, all the municipalities are represented in the health communities and have the right of consultation. In other words, as soon as there are major structural discussions, local authorities will be consulted through the health communities. This means that in a local area you have both a mayor and a health committee chairman who can make his voice heard in relation to decisions that may affect a local hospital. So it is far more democratic and democratic than the structure we have today, where there are several municipalities which do not have members of the regional councils. In addition, it will be the case that decisions cannot be taken against the annual development plan, and this can then be the case in specific cases. Now I described the special case of Bornholm before, and that is what I saw when the Minister for Children and Social Affairs tried to explain.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410132748	Thank you. And the last question, please, Mrs Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410132752	So there is something gooddaw man ax handle over this discussion, and I can't figure out whether it is because the government doesn't want to stand up for the centralisation you do or whether it's simply because the government doesn't understand the uncertainty it creates when you change the basics of the structures that you do here and people can't find out where it is then that they have to address themselves. I have to say that after this round, where it's probably time no. 16, 17, 18 and 19, that we're trying to get an answer to this, I'm still not going to be able to answer a citizen in my circle who it is you have to go to about a discussion about a hospital closure. So let me make one last attempt to get an answer: is it because when the Minister talks about operational responsibility, there is also the question of whether a hospital or a cadastral with hospital functions should be maintained or not?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410132843	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410132844	All I see is that it is social democrats who create insecurity across the country. Take sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, who campaigns that now Amager Hospital should be preserved as if it were in the danger zone, or the questioners' own colleagues who tour Funen and say that you close the Funen hospitals. The only people who create insecurity for the citizens are the Socialists, for example. Mrs. Mette Gjerskov, who writes in Roskilde Avis, that now Roskilde Hospital must close. It is Social Democrats who tour the country and create uncertainty. I simply think it is a new low point for the Socialists that patients are being taken hostage in some political battle. From now on, you will be able to go to your local mayor, your local health committee chairman, who will be the representative of each municipality in the health communities, if you are in doubt about who is responsible for local interests, and I think this is, in fact, much more locally democratically anchored than the system we have today, which is why this is a proximity reform and in no way a reform that changes the hospital structure we know today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410132946	Thank you. The question is closed. The next question is to the Minister for Health by Mr. Julius Graakjær Grantzau, Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410132958	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410133003	Thank you. The question is: has the Minister considered that the 5G network is safe in terms of health?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410133017	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410133018	Thank you for the question. After all, the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate recently presented a 5G Action Plan as the basis for Denmark to use the next generation of telecommunications in the coming years. In this respect, it is of course important to me, as Minister for Health, that citizens have real and up-to-date information on the health conditions of 5G technology. It is the Health Authority's clear assessment that there is no health risk associated with 5G networks. Measurements show that the total radiation from mobile phones, wifi etc. is very weak and is far below the limit values for what is harmful to health. With the introduction of the 5G network, the total radiation from antennas will remain below the limit values. It is, of course, of great importance that our authorities ensure that developments in this area are closely monitored and are also regularly in close dialogue. And I know that is also a major priority for both the Danish Health Authority and the Danish Energy Agency. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410133119	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410133120	Thank you. I have also heard a little about it in general terms. But I'm trying to get smarter, because there are a lot of worried citizens who turn to me and to everyone here in the Folketing, I think. I also imagine that the Minister is aware of the dialogue between the Danish Energy Agency and the Danish Health Authority on the 5G network. I was recently asked to comment on a letter stating that the Danish Health Authority in a letter to the Danish Energy Agency talks about the fact that they are surprised that the Danish Energy Agency simply refers them to the Danish Health Authority in a draft response to worried citizens. At the same time, the Danish Health Service points out that they do not agree with the wording of this draft reply to the concerned citizens. For they stress that they have not received the information they have requested in connection with the 5G network. The Danish Health Authority writes, among other things, that they do not immediately consider that the submitted material contains sufficient and absolutely necessary robust information so that we can assess whether there are grounds for health concerns in connection with the roll-out and operation of 5G technology. The Head of Unit also writes that some of the information they include. have not been obtained, are results of model calculations and concrete measurements addressing worst case situations, such as: critical exposure of a person. It could be bus drivers or in other situations where individuals are exposed to the next 5G network. A lot of people are worried about this, and a lot of people say that there may be different harmful effects of this. On the other hand, it is rejected by the Danish Health Service here, as if there is nothing to worry about. But what is important to me and such in the Folketing and to the citizens, I think, is to have such real information about what the Minister himself says. Is this the focus of the Minister of Health? Are there any such concrete measures that the Minister could take, also following on from what I am saying here? How do we ensure really good information about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410133331	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410133332	Thank you for the question. So, as I said at the outset, it is the clear assessment of the Danish Health Authority that there is no health risk associated with the 5G network, and that is what the questioner is asking about. The questioner has also asked a number of written questions, which the Danish Health Authority has also contributed with answers to which also reference is made to up-to-date information, specifically aimed at among other things. citizens and others who might be interested in getting more information about what kind of assessments are underlying the Health Authority's clear assessment that there is no health risk associated with the 5G network. And I fully agree with the questioner that, of course, there must be information available, and that is also what the Danish Health Authority has contributed in writing to the answer to the questioner, so that it is also shown on the website, so that concerned citizens can log in there and see what the Danish Health Authority is using.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410133421	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410133422	Actually, in terms of 5G, we don't have that much information. That is where there is also a difference in what technology it is compared to previous technologies. There is also an entirely new EU report that has just arrived, which says a little the same thing as the Danish Health Authority says, namely that there is a lack of information such as this about worst case scenarios and exposure density. It is something with such overlapping rays, especially in dense urban areas, where there may be problems with its density and its exposure level. In Brussels' capital region, they have also said no to this 5G pilot project for health reasons. Because it can be difficult to be so clever when it also becomes a little general answer. Could we get more concrete information about this? Will the Minister be working for this in this specific case of 5G?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410133516	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410133516-2	Like the questioner, I find that there are many questions about this, such as: It is also based on the fact that there are very, very many incorrect information that flourishes on, among other things. The social media that make people worried. That is why I think it is important to communicate clearly and clearly, and if we look at our health professional authority in Denmark, the Danish Health Authority, it is their clear assessment that there is no health risk associated with the 5G network. There is also in-depth information which the Danish Health Authority has contributed to written answers to the questioner, and if the questioner has any further questions that the questioner wants to clarify, then it is clear that of course I am also happy to respond to it with contributions from the Danish Health Authority. I just think it is important that we stick to the fact that a great many of those who are concerned today are concerned because of incorrect information which, among other things, is not correct. is flourishing on social media. I also believe that we have a joint responsibility to ensure that what the authorities' assessment is, namely that there is no health risk. We will then of course have to make sure, and that is also what I said at the outset, that the Danish Energy Agency and the Danish Health Authority have a close contact with the future work in this area as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410133626	Thank you. Here you go with the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410133627	Thank you. That is where I would like something more concrete about 5G, in that, as I said before, the Danish Health Service lacks the information they have asked for in order to be able to assess it in concrete terms. Now the Minister for Energy is very clear in his interpretation of how we are going to meet the needs of the telecommunications industry in this area, and then I could ask the Minister for Health if the Minister for Health can be aware of the spit on the worried citizens who are in relation to saying that the Minister is on this matter and should perhaps make sure to listen to the researchers who say that there is cause for concern. Can the Minister be equally clear about the health aspect of the citizens who may be listening and who are concerned about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410133721	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410133721-2	I do not have much to add in relation to what I have already said. The Danish Health Authority also has a professional dialogue with various actors in the field. This is also apparent from the written answers provided by the Danish Health Authority, after the questioner has asked questions, and it will also be forward-looking. The Danish Health Authority, like our top health professional authority, does not consider that there is any risk associated with 5G, and that is also the signal that is important in relation to those citizens who are concerned, among other things. information that is not necessarily based on facts and that is met in some places on social media. There too, I believe that we have a responsibility to ensure that we communicate clearly what is actually the health assessment by the Health Service, namely that we should not be worried.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410133807	Thank you. That concludes the question. The next question is to the Minister for the Elderly of Astrid Krag, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410133817	Go ahead and read.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410133819	Thank you. Since the nursing homes have been written out of government health reform under strong criticism from both the Elders Case and the Alzheimer's Association, will the Minister explain what concrete initiatives the government will take to ensure that nursing homes can ensure that care for the elderly does not deteriorate year by year as we grow older?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410133842	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410133843	Thank you for the question. I would like to start by stating that it is not a question of the care homes being written out of the health reform. In the government's proposals for health reform, more examples and details were mentioned than was the case in the short text of the agreement. Therefore, there is not the same list of examples of staff groups in the text of the agreement. It is not, therefore, a question of excluding nurses and sosu assistants, dietists or healthcare professionals in nursing homes. So let me just confirm here that the development of competence under the health reform is, of course, also about the health professional skills in the country's nursing homes and nurses in home care, which play closely with the personal and practical assistance under the Services Act. In addition, as Minister for the Elderly, I would very much like to make it clear that the government has a great deal of focus on the area of the elderly. We have shown this time and time again through finance agreements with the Danish People's Party, financial agreements with KL and bet pools agreements. We have given priority to a wide range of interventions which contribute to more dignified care for the elderly, including in nursing homes. Let me just mention one billion. kr. Annually to the municipalities' work with a more dignified care for the elderly: 380 million. kr. annual cutting cards for nursing homes; 425 million. kr. for a kitchen pool; 60 million. kr. Every year to a dignified death; and the 500 million. kr. annual to better manning in the care of the elderly. Of the 500 million. kr. In 2019, the municipalities expect to spend 46%, a total of some 231 million. kr., at better manning in nursing homes. We therefore give priority to good and dignified care for the elderly, including in nursing homes, and we will of course continue to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410134029	Here you go, Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410134030	Thank you for that, and also thanks to the Minister for the Elderly for coming forward and answering questions here about the government's health reform. It can be said that there is a burning platform: there must be changes in our healthcare system that are needed for more closeness. After all, we believe that there is a social democracy, so we can agree on this, and also a greater context, especially for the weakest citizens, who end up cycling around the system and becoming what we unfortunately have a definite word for, namely turn-door patients. The whole set aside for this is, of course, that there will be significantly more older people in the years we are looking into significantly more older people and that is why I think that the whole discussion about this health reform is also a very, very important discussion, also for the country's first minister for the elderly. So first of all, thank you to the Minister for the Elderly for coming and answering a question about it. With that said, I would like to say that I understand the criticisms and concerns raised by the Elders Case and raised by the Alzheimer's Association here, because when we talk about our nursing home, this is where the weakest and most weakened and sickest elderly people are. After all, it is older people who have an oversickness compared to older people who can live at home and take better care of themselves. They end up in hospitals more often for something that could have been prevented. I think it is two and a half times as often, if you live in a nursing home, you end up in hospital for something that could be prevented than if you were so fresh that you could still live at home. So it is a group that is absolutely central when it comes to future health care, regardless of whether you want to make the reform that the government wants, where you collect and centralise, or whether you want to make the move proposed by the Social Democratic Party with stronger proximity. Therefore, I would just like to ask the Minister for the Elderly very briefly whether the Minister for the Elderly does not agree that it is a mistake that nursing homes have been written out, so that it is simply a mistake that has happened in the rush that nursing homes are no longer explicitly mentioned in the text of the agreement on health reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410134237	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410134238	Well, I would like to make it clear again that it is not a question of the nursing homes being written out of the health reform with the agreement made by the government and the Danish People's Party. The government's proposals for health reform included some examples of professional groups that can be developed in order to strengthen the quality of municipal health services. As an example, the health - care personnel in the country's nursing home were also mentioned. The text of the agreement is considerably shorter than the proposal and, as I have already mentioned, not all the examples in the proposal are also set out in the text of the agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410134315	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410134316	I know that; I have also seen that the Minister of Health has written in a written commentary on a newspaper. But the question to the Minister for the Elderly is here today whether or not the Minister for the Elderly thinks it is a mistake. Should it not be in the text of the agreement to strengthen our health care, which has been discussed at all, because there are so many more elderly people and we know that we find the weakest, most weakened and most sick of them in our nursing home • have maintained to mention the nursing homes, although everything cannot go back from the game?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410134350	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410134352	Yes, but I have replied that the text of the agreement is considerably shorter than the text of the agreement, so it is not a matter of the nursing homes being written out of the health reform with the agreement that the government has made with the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410134409	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410134412	There I heard the Minister say, otherwise the Minister must say, and I can see that the Minister sits and makes facial expressions saying no when she gets the floor. In other words, should the nursing homes not be mentioned in the text of the agreement in order to give a true picture of what groups are most in need of greater proximity in our health care? Shouldn't the nursing homes be mentioned? That is a yes or no question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410134443	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410134444	Then I shouldn't have said the well.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410134456	The question is closed. Then we can go further, because Question Time is all over.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410134509	The debate is open. Here you go, sir. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410134525	The bill deals with the VAT conditions for printed newspapers and electronic newspapers respectively, and it translates into part of the media agreement, which was concluded between the government and the Danish People's Party last summer. You might want to discuss it long and in depth, including what you do with Denmark's Radio, and what you shouldn't do, etc., but now it's the VAT part it's about. Today, for historical reasons, there is a difference in conditions, as printed newspapers are exempt from VAT, while electronically supplied newspapers are subject to VAT. The government suggests that the existing zero VAT in printed newspapers should be extended to include electronically supplied newspapers. Printed newspapers are currently subject to a payroll tax, and at the same time the bill provides that electronically supplied newspapers are also subject to a payroll tax. The general criteria for the existence of what is known as a newspaper in terms of VAT will not be changed. For the Social Democratic Party, making a neutrality between the different types of media in principle makes real sense. There are just a lot of things happening on the technological front in these years and have been doing so for a number of years, making the way of publishing and the way of spending media change. It makes sense to constantly look at the changes and avoid making a difference just because there is a difference between what platform you use and what way you appear as a media. But we would now like to question whether we are really achieving what we have in mind with this bill. There are two aspects in particular that make us critical of this. Firstly, in the consultations, it is pointed out that a narrow interpretation of which electronic media will be covered by zero VAT is proposed, and thus there will be no question of real platform neutrality. Instead, it supports that there will still be distortions of competition. A medium that I think more and more of us in here and also more and more Danes, I think you can look at the figures, orient themselves in through good quality news material, is everything. This will not, of course, be covered by the possibility of zero VAT, but will be placed in a worse competitive situation than other traditional newspaper or newspaper media, which are now also published in various electronic formats. The same applies to Zetland, and others could also be mentioned. Secondly, the draft law has been brought forward in relation to what was originally intended. With the media conciliation, an overall study of the media support schemes was launched, as it would make sense to have been presented and discussed before taking a position on a bill like this, because what will it mean for the conditions of competition for the various media in the Danish media market when you want to implement a bill like this? We should have had that answer before. Of course, it would be most appropriate to look at the area as a whole and with a complete examination in hand. Instead, there is a start on making changes here and now. In our opinion, it is to take things in the wrong order. As I understand it, there are also some changes on the way to the EU level of VAT, which it would be worthwhile to have in place before deciding what the possibilities are for making a scheme in Denmark that makes us get closer to having neutrality..... of course, if it is possible to do so in our media market......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... So, as I said, it makes sense for us in principle to look at the possibility of creating platform neutrality, but, in view of the concerns I have raised here, we cannot, as a starting point, support the proposal as it stands. We think that we should take the time it will take to carry out the investigations announced in the media conciliation before we take a position on it. We look forward to having the concerns and critical consultation responses that have come, drilled out and clarified in the context of a thorough committee procedure. Just later today we also have the presence of some of the stakeholders in the industry who can point out how the conditions will not be more reasonable by implementing this bill. We have also tried to get more time to do this committee procedure. The Committee on Taxation still has the opportunity to accommodate and give a proper time for committee proceedings. So far it has been rejected very much against, I think, the way we usually do things in here. If there is no very urgent reason to have to implement a legislative proposal with a short time limit, why not take the time it takes to have proper committee proceedings? These must be my comments here at first reading and, as has been said, we cannot immediately support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410135028	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410135035	After all, this bill is part of the June 2018 media agreement, and it's all about redeploying the support so that it becomes more balanced between printed media and Internet-based media. Today it is the case that newspapers in paper form are exempt from VAT, while newspapers in electronic form are not exempt from VAT. Similarly, paper newspapers are subject to payroll fees, while electronic newspapers are not. And this is actually a consequence of the fact that the legislation has not followed technological developments. Very many people get their news via the Internet • people have a log-in so they can get such a pdf file where they can see their newspapers. And this is then an attempt to create a platform neutrality in such a way that in future both will be exempt from VAT, but both newspapers, i.e. both Internet-based and paper-based, will be subject to payroll tax, thereby making the two newspapers equal. So far, so good. I actually think that makes sense to most people. But as with so many other things, there is one but in this, because there are also some challenges. Because there is also a parameter as to whether it could distort competition in relation to magazines and magazines, which are not VAT-free. This has been the case historically for many years. Or what about news media that only publish online articles? Sir. Jesper Petersen mentioned, for example: Everything, and they are then subject to VAT. So we must be honest in saying that we have not fully achieved what we are doing right now. Or what if a newspaper, for example. Does a news copy from a magazine, completely planks it? But then one is subject to VAT, while the other is not, and how is one placed in a competitive position? So there are a number of questions that we need to clarify in committee, which is why I can also say that we have already asked nine questions. I also think it is obvious that we are having a good discussion, which has also been called for by the previous rapporteur. Of course, the solution could be to say: should we not just make zero VAT on magazines and magazines as well? Because then they'd be even. It is actually an agenda that the Danish People's Party supports, but the challenge is that the VAT directive does not allow it at all, as it is today. There is a so-called standstill clause, a standstill clause, which makes it impossible to do so. A new VAT directive is being negotiated, as has already been mentioned, but it may well have a long way to go, so it may not be such a solution to do so with a snap. But these are also some things that can be a challenge and that we are actually aware of. That is why it is also because we have launched this competition analysis so that we can analyse it in greater detail and find out what challenges it is in this area too, which may be categorized in such a way that we can then take it into account in the negotiations on the forthcoming VAT directive, so that we can perhaps open up the possibility of resolving it in that way. In conclusion, this is part of an agreement that the Danish People's Party is part of, so we support the bill. But we have some questions in committee so far we have already asked nine questions in order to clarify how these things are to be implemented in reality. is intended for it to be a concrete assessment, in terms of whether it is an Internet newspaper, or maybe it is just Internet articles, or how to handle it if a media, for example. offers that you can get your pdf file without VAT, but where it then gives free access to login to these plus articles. So there are a number of challenges and boundaries in which we need to be absolutely sure in committee that we are hitting completely within the dial. So, of course, we are looking forward to having a good discussion on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410135414	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410135418	Thank you. I noticed very well that Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær asked the question how it poses digital media, such as: Zetland or MediaWatch or the Alting, to mention some, and now I just want to know whether the rapporteur has received an answer to the question which I think is very relevant.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410135438	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410135440	No, I haven't yet. I have only asked them this morning, so it is relatively short time that the Minister has been given to reply to them, but it is quite real concerns that I myself have made up, but I would guess that some of them, perhaps other rapporteurs, have also received their e-mails. It is quite fair that, as a newspaper provider or organisation, you want answers to these things about how the rules should be understood. So even if we really think that this is a fine agreement we have made on media conciliation, it is also obvious, when we come to the implementation of the bill, that we will then also clarify how the rules are to be implemented in reality for these newspapers and whether we are going to hit the dial completely. So that's among other things. That is why I have asked these questions which have not been answered yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410135519	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410135525	Thank you for the floor. Yeah, what's a newspaper today? I had a look at avi subscriptions with my parents not long ago, and the vast majority of avi subscriptions are gradually such that you can get it digitally for 5 days a week and then you can get it printed this weekend. That is how a lot of people sell avi subscriptions at the moment, which is why it is paradoxical that we still have the rule in Denmark that only the printed newspapers are VAT-free, but not the digital newspapers, since it is now so much part of the market that there are digital newspapers. That is why it is quite reasonable to agree in the media agreement here last summer, the government and the Danish People's Party, that one should make a platform neutrality, that newspapers, whether they had been printed or come digitally, should be treated equally and have a zero VAT rule. It was then decided to move forward with the Finance Act so that it would already come into force now. I think that makes really, really sense in a world where we are becoming more and more digital, that is, we are not necessarily bound up with what kind of product we get, but what kind of product they are and that they are treated the same way. I believe that will also help to ensure the future of many of the printed media, in other words that they actually have that opportunity, and that will have a lasting revenue effect for these media of 55 million. kr. a year. So in this way it has to be said that it is significant that you actually treat it the same regardless of which platform is being used for it. So on that basis, I can say that the Left is in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410135701	Thank you. There are brief comments. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410135706	Thank you. I think we are all actually quite agreed that with the time we live in, it makes no sense to have different VAT rules, whether it is digital or printed. But I do think that the debate with Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær showed just that. The rapporteur also started by asking what is a newspaper today? And that is quite the right question to ask, because for some of the media mentioned, Zetland or MediaWatch, or whatever it may be, there is simply some detail in this which I think we should have clarified and put some questions to the tax minister about. How, then, is a media that is not already published today being put on the table? I think the rapporteur is pointing out the very specific point: what is a newspaper at all today, and should it already be printed in order to get zero VAT?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410135804	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410135807	Well, I think it is very good to have it clarified further in the committee procedure, because we do not legislate by name for newspapers or anything else, so it is such an obvious thing to have the substance of the committee's proceedings fleshed out. So I think that Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen should finally ask about this in committee so that we can get it more concrete, because it is not specifically named on the various newspapers in the draft law, because it does not do so in legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410135832	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410135834	That was actually just to give some examples. It is not because I think that certain media should be referred to by name, but it is precisely about the principle of what a newspaper is and where you stand if you are a media that is only published digitally in advance. So it was really just to clarify.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410135855	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410135857	Yes, and this is typically the kind of thing that will depend on a concrete assessment in the individual case, and there we can make some rules on how we set the law up to be, which rules should basically apply. But it is not we who decide who is covered by it or who is not specifically covered by it. We need to make general rules that apply to everyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410135915	Thank you. There is just one comment. Sir. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410135920	The problem would, of course, be, I would say to Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, that it will not seem the same to everyone, that it will of course make a structural, systematic difference between different types of media if we do as the government is proposing here. Then I would like to have the list of examples of the media that are publishing and producing news articles and news material today, which are then not included in the committee's proceedings. However, Mrs Schack Elholm will agree with us that there are various of the media here that have been mentioned now, which will not be subject to the criteria laid down in the VAT law today, and will therefore not be covered and will be in a distorted competitive situation. That's the one thing I wanted to ask. I have another 20 seconds, so I am asking one more question: when you make an agreement in the media conciliation that it is important to examine what a bill like this would mean for the competitive situation in the Danish media market, why is it that we should not have it before we discuss this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410140017	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410140018	After all, this is about platform neutrality, not about which media are covered as such. We say it is the printed newspapers, and it must also apply to those who are not printed and who are digital. It doesn't really affect the other media. So it's not like we're changing a lot on the list of them. What we are just saying is that there must be a platform neutrality in relation to newspapers, and I think that is actually very sensible. After all, we are still getting an analysis done, and one can always respond to that, but I think it is essential that we get started ensuring that both digital and printed newspapers have equal access to zero VAT.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410140050	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410140052	I think that it is still in the dark, which is why, in a media settlement, it is decided that, before making a decision like this, it would be wise to examine what the consequences will be for competition on the market. I do not think there has been a good answer to that. And then the point is that Mrs Louise Schack Elholm is not achieving the platform bureaucracy that the rapporteur is talking about in her speech here, that if you are one, what should we say, traditional newspaper, and come out with things electronically, then you will be exempt from VAT. If you only have your new electronic platform media that you publish, then you cannot be sure to be covered by zero VAT. That's not fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410140136	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410140136-2	I think it is a good thing to have the committee procedure bored out, exactly what is happening to those who are not already published today. I cannot read it specifically from the draft law, which is why I believe that this is something that needs to be fleshed out in committee. However, I would say that we are achieving a platform neutrality in relation to newspapers here, because we are going in and saying in concrete terms that newspapers must have a platform neutrality, whether they are printed or digital. That is a fundamental equality in relation to it. Then it is true that if there are any ambiguities about exactly how we define whether they should be printed in advance or they should not be printed in advance, that we can look at it then let us go in and look at it during committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410140210	Thank you. Then it is the next rapporteur who is Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410140218	From the point of view of the Enhedslisten, we are in favour of the principle of equality between printed newspapers and newspapers being delivered electronically. It is basically the case that it makes sense to equate newspapers, regardless of how they are, so to speak, delivered to those who read them. However, we would also like the scheme to apply to more media. These may be magazines or magazines, as has also been pointed out in several of the consultation responses to the bill. Then we can understand from the legislative proposal that a solution that extends it is at least to a certain extent prevented by the EU VAT directive, which does not allow zero VAT to be introduced on anything other than newspapers in Denmark. That is why, following on from the debate and the speeches that have been made by other rapporteurs so far, we also believe that we must look at what emerges from the committee's proceedings. In this context, we would also like to look at deepening the scope for extending the scheme, despite the EU directive. Then we can also see that the Danish People's Party, which has in fact reached an agreement, is also very doubtful as to what this agreement is really going to mean. There must be clarification of where the demarcation is here, in other words to what extent it will mean a new discrimination, etc. etc. I have to say that I think that this is at least important to clarify. That is why we will look at what comes out in committee and we would like this clarification to be made. That clarification will then also determine what our position on this will ultimately be. So, before we take up our final position, we will follow the work of the committee and see what clarification can be found in the work of the committee on the problems of demarcation and possible new problems that may arise if the legislative proposal is adopted as it stands here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410140440	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jesper Petersen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410140442	I was just taking note of the fact that sir... Rune Lund referred to the committee procedure, as did Mrs Louise Schack Elholm. Is Mr. Rune Lund does not agree that we should take time for that committee to be dealt with when it is so important, rather than having to go through this in such a short time as has been proposed with a vote within a month from now, when it has not been possible to have the good time that we would like? Is Mr. Rune Lund agrees that it is unusual for the work of the Folketing that we cannot have a regular timetable, as is the case with this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410140519	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410140520	Yes. In general terms, I think we have a problem in this regard with the fact that we do not comply with the deadlines in force. There are too many exceptions, and it should only be in very special cases that we choose to deviate from the usual deadlines. Then I think we have a further challenge with the fact that many of the legislative proposals put forward in the Folketing are the result of political agreements negotiated in a ministry where there is no full information in the negotiation process, as there is when proposals come up in the Folketing and where delegations can come in to the committee and present their case, or where organisations can provide consultation answers to the legislative proposals being put forward in the Folketing. So when an agreement has been made and it becomes a legislative proposal, there will typically be new information on the table which requires a more thorough debate. We often experience this, and unfortunately I also think that in this respect we often find that those parties which had originally been part of an agreement, like shutting down. It depends a little on the area of taxation, however, I think we have had a tradition of opening up a real dialogue when new information comes in connection with the proposals before Parliament. But it would be a problem if, like shutting down when new things come on the table and you did not make the smartest decision because a very quick decision had to be made. That would be very unwise. I'd rather be thorough than quick.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410140643	Thank you. And then it's sir. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410140652	Thank you for that, President. This bill is, after all, the implementation of the part of the media agreement that is about creating technology neutrality between printed and electronic media, and it is very, very sensible to do so. There has been a rapid development in this area, and we fully share the aim of this bill. And, of course, I must also say that we support it. It should also be noted that there has been some criticism of the proposal in the hearings. One of the criticisms is that it was agreed that an analysis should be carried out to assess whether the content of the draft law could lead to further distortions of competition, and that analysis is then not complete because we brought the agreement forward to the Finance Act. I think we should be honest, and that is why I would like to say that this is a criticism that we can understand. That is why it is also very important, we think that we are following developments in this area closely and are ready to make corrections if it turns out that there is an inappropriate distortion of competition in this area. But, of course, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410140830	Thank you. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen has a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410140833	Thank you. Well, that's exactly what Mr. Joachim B. Olsen is talking about, and like e.g. DI and Dansk Arbejd also point out in their hearing answer that the competitive situation is unresolved, that the definition of what is a newspaper is not updated with this bill, that there is some timing problem in presenting this bill now, when the other elements are not clarified, and that, as far as some of the things we have already discussed are concerned, in relation to what a newspaper is about the relationship between magazines and newspapers etc. So, of course, I fully understand that the rapporteur must support an agreement concluded by the Liberal Alliance, but just to be sure that I understand Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, correctly, I would like to say that it would be good to clarify some of these issues before we have to deal with the proposal in the third reading. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410140946	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410140947	Yes, of course I will not be able to say no to the fact that it is always good that important issues of an agreement should be resolved before a final decision is made. I agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410141008	Sir. Jesper Petersen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410141011	Firstly, from the point of view of the Liberal Alliance, and the view one usually has on competition and competition, I think it must not be satisfactory that one can end up with a situation where it is so that if a traditional media company publishes a magazine and publishes the articles from that magazine electronically, it is covered by zero VAT, but if one simply starts a magazine that publishes the same type of articles but is not part of a traditional newspaper company, then one cannot achieve the same competitive conditions as the competitor. It must in some way be contrary to some principles of Mr. Joachim B. Olsen. The second question I wanted to ask is this: the date of entry into force, because it was actually decided in the media conciliation that it should be 1 January next year. Now it has to be 1 July, and we are not waiting for the study to be carried out on the conditions of competition. It could, of course, be appropriate, on the basis of some of the concerns I could imagine that people in the Liberal Alliance had about unequal competition, that they decided to carry out such an investigation. Why is it that we must speed up the entry into force and not wait for the sensible studies that have been carried out before a proposal such as this is to come into force?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410141121	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410141123	I fully admit that we do not want distortions of competition, and if this leads to distortions of competition, this is not an optimal situation. We must also bear in mind that there was already a distortion of competition, and this is an attempt and, I believe, a step in the right direction to reduce the distortions of competition that exist today. It is sometimes said in the dilemma that it is not always possible to make the optimal solution. This is an expression of it in my view. Then there has been a desire in connection with the Finance Act to bring this forward, and that is a wish that I also understand, because it is, after all, a lower tax. It has a top priority for us, and that is why I understand that wish. I am simply saying that we have now had a reading of the draft law, and there has been a hearing reply, and I will then also note that there is a reason for us to have a hearing reply that there are critical comments. That is why, of course, I do not think it is an entirely optimal situation if it is the case that we are going to create distortions of competition with this. That is why I say that we should follow developments closely. Of course, one should always be ready to make changes if this proves necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410141246	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410141249	I really think it is a nuanced and sensible answer to give in many ways, but nevertheless. Well, I know that the Liberal Alliance is so wild in the heat of any kind of tax relief that can be achieved. Sir. Joachim B. Olsen can just nod while I list that position. However, I suppose there was some point in examining the market conditions, the conditions of competition before considering this proposal. Isn't that a bit of an ideological desire to just put some taxes down? Isn't it a little careless not to have the study agreed upon before the bill was supposed to come into force?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410141328	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410141329	It is true that we are happy with lower taxes, but not on any background. In other words, distortion of competition is something we are very sceptical about. I am then also trying to explain that we are in a situation today where there is a distortion of competition • very far-reaching distortion of competition between printed and electronic media • and that is what we are then trying to do better. The question then is whether it is always possible to find the optimal solution. There are such criticisms in the consultation answers that might indicate that this solution has not been done. There I say so openly and frankly that, if this proves to be the case, one must, of course, be prepared to change the legislation. I would also have liked that analysis to have been completed earlier. Unfortunately, that has not been possible. We stand by what we have agreed. But I'm just saying honestly that there's something that might suggest that this situation is less optimal than it could have been, and that's why we need to be aware of the future developments in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410141431	Thank you. Then there are no more questions or comments. Sir. Julius Graakjær Grantzau, Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410141441	Thank you for that to the President. I think there is a very good intention in this proposal, and I can actually hear that many other parties, like the alternative, think that it makes sense to achieve some form of platform-neutral equality in this area. I have taken note of a number of comments which I will not repeat here from both parties involved in the conciliation agreement and other parties. So I would just like to agree with that. I believe that, as a starting point, it is a step on the road to a complete equality of media across platforms, digital and printed. However, it may have consequences which are negative for competition, but then it may actually lead to a worse situation than the one we are facing today. So, as a starting point, we would really like to vote in favour of a proposal which is a step forward, and we would also like to take the full step, but I also need to make sure that, as several other rapporteurs have said, this does not affect competition and has the opposite effect of what we really want. So I will also look at some of the answers that are coming. I understand that some questions have been asked which we can then wait for the answers to. With regard to the second point, which has also been addressed from up here, about the time aspect of this discussion of the proposal, I would just like to ask the Minister if he could perhaps clarify what it is that we are not waiting for this statement; that it should be done now. Because it may be that there are some arguments that we need to have with us, or a background that we need to take into account. So I am actually positive about this, but we need to see how we can clarify what is really important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410141644	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410141652	I think most people have noticed that a great many newspapers are published in paper form, and then you can also buy the newspaper as an electronic newspaper. Before I read this bill, I knew that such a paper was without VAT, but I was not really aware that if it is electronic then VAT will have to be paid. That is why our starting point, when we have to take a position on this bill in the Radical Left, is that we think it is reasonable that both are free of VAT. This is a strange difference, especially at a time when I think that if the many newspapers are going to have an increase in turnover and get more readers, it is probably the future to have to make electronic newspapers instead of printing them on paper and getting them distributed. That is why our starting point, as I said, is that it is sensible to equate the two things. As a large number of rapporteurs began with Mr. Jesper Petersen has explained that there is some ambiguity in the draft law and also in the hearings on what kind of media can be described as a newspaper. At first sight, it seems that it is all those who are being described today as newspapers because there is a paper version, but could it be the case, as some of the rapporteurs mentioned, that there are some media such as Zetland and Altinget, which could also be described as newspapers, and should it be for the EU VAT directive? Will they be able to come under the same arrangement? This is rather unclear, as other rapporteurs have said today. That is why, as the rapporteur of the alternative said, we will wait for the Ministry of Taxation to respond to this before we take a final position, and I shall also, when we get those answers, have turned my group around. But immediately we are positive about the principle of putting a paper newspaper on an equal footing with an electronic newspaper.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410141901	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410141914	When the turnover and VAT were introduced in the 1960s, there was general agreement that no tax should be levied on newspapers and publications, because it would be to be regarded as a tax on the free word, and that has actually been the principle since then. Now we are in a situation where it can be said that this is not the first time that society has changed so quickly that we do not have time to react to Christiansborg, and that is why I would just like to repeat the question which the rapporteur of the Left has put a little rhetorically: what is a newspaper today? In fact, I think that is a good question, and that is also what this whole debate has been about: when taxes, VAT on the media, on newspapers, and what a newspaper compared to another publication, a magazine or a magazine, or whatever it may be. I think that most of us agree that it is very good if there is equality here, but the problem is just another which one cannot really hold against the tax minister, but perhaps more the Minister for Culture or the media conciliation that has been concluded. For, on the one hand, there is a Minister for Culture and a media conciliation which extends the definition of what newspapers, media etc. is, in one, I think, quite right, but there is then a disagreement as to how it is defined in this bill, where it is actually narrowed down. At the same time, there is a competition study which has not been completed. I think it should be completed by 2023 at the latest, where the issue of newspapers, publications, magazines, newspapers, etc. will have been clarified. Then we also have an open question, in relation to the fact that the European Commission is looking at the VAT directive and is very likely to suggest that the Member States themselves need to define more clearly what VAT should be, including zero VAT. So I understand the interest in getting this equivalence, or technology-neutral platform, as the rapporteur of the Left called it, but there are just so many outstanding issues that I actually find it a little problematic to have to adopt this bill, without at least some of these things being clarified. Then, as DI points out in their hearing answer, there is also a problem that the turnover of sales of foreign magazines etc. are subject to payroll tax imposed on products exempt from VAT. Firstly, it is difficult, and the Minister of Taxation knows about anyone, to ensure that it is brought to an end, namely that payroll tax is levied on foreign companies' turnover of sales in Denmark, and secondly, it is just my own comment that the payroll tax is less than 4%. So there is also a competition aspect in relation to foreign magazines vis-à-vis Danish magazines. I also think that now that I have the floor, I would like to make a few comments on the fact that we are botanising in our VAT system. We have a very wide VAT base in Denmark, and there are often very good proposals to exempt both one and the other, but it just makes it very difficult to have a tax system that we all actually agree that we would like to make as simple as possible, while at the same time fulfilling the objectives we have. Now I do not see the rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance, but Mr. Joachim B. Olsen used to be the first to say that we need a more simple tax system, and then the way forward is not to botanise in our VAT rates and remove one and the other. I know that it is popular to say that then we should exempt all sorts of fantastic wonderful things that we would like to have more of, but that is just not very sensible. The sensible thing is to have a broad VAT base and then achieve the objectives we would like to have in a different way. I read a concrete proposal in one of the consultation responses, which was a public service pool, which was to say that we are now normalising it here in relation to other areas, but we are still not going to put a tax on the free word, which was decided in the 1960s, either with an oms or a VAT or any other way of compensating for it having to pay VAT, perhaps one to one, if possible. A number of these consultation responses are also down to the fact that it makes it difficult to navigate this system if we have a number of special taxes or exemptions. So it was perhaps a boring list for people other than those who care about technical tax aspects, but in conclusion I would just like to say that if we are to have all these issues resolved before we vote, I would recommend the Treasury to work as quickly as the Ministry of Finance does sometimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410142459	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then it's sir. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410142509	Thank you. The proposal we are discussing here is, after all, part of the media agreement that the government has concluded with the Danish People's Party. And the draft law here specifically refers to the extension of the zero VAT system, as the previous rapporteurs have said, so that in future it will also apply to electronic newspapers, which will then in turn be subject to payroll tax, just as the printed newspapers will be today. Legislation must, of course, keep up with technological developments and there must be a level playing field, whether it is a newspaper published in print or electronically. And there's a lot of things going on in these years, and it's going really fast. It is also strange that when you read your newspaper in print, it is exempt from VAT, but if you read it on your iPad, what many people are doing today, then VAT has to be paid. Of course, we fully support the fact that there has to be a platform neutrality in relation to this. That is why we also support the creation of this equality in relation to whether or not newspapers are subject to VAT. So we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410142630	Thank you. And then it's the tax minister. No, I'm sorry. That is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen's comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410142638	Thank you, President. Well, I would just like to ask the same question to the rapporteur of the Conservatives, namely whether we are really achieving the equality or siding that I think we all agree is perfectly reasonable with this bill. Because if you'd like to read what do I know about FinanceWatch, MediaWatch or Zetland, or one of the countless other media that only exists digitally, I suppose there isn't that side arrangement? And I think it's because this whole area needs to be redefined. As the rapporteur of the Left said, what is a newspaper today? And I think that especially the generation that is a little younger us does not assess whether something is more or less worth or especially different, because one only reads it online and does not even have the opportunity to buy it physically in a store.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410142739	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410142741	In other words, what we are doing now, as I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, is the situation in which I am reading the newspaper in the printed version and on my iPad, because today there is a difference in terms of whether I am buying the electronic version or the physical version. And that's what we're gonna do with this bill here. And we fully support the idea that there should be a platform neutrality to that. Then there are many other things that you can start to discuss in relation to how to define this, and that is always the discussion that you get when you start opening the door to differentiated VAT. And we would also like to take that discussion, but this bill is like creating a platform neutrality in relation to the printed version and the version you read on your iPad.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410142821	Thank you. Then no one else has any comments. Then it's the tax minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410142828	Thank you very much, President. I would also like to thank you for the exchange of views that has taken place here in the Chamber today, about L 222. After all, this bill is about parts of the media agreement for 2019-2023, which the government has entered into with the Danish People's Party, so it is between a very narrow circle of parties. With the bill, the government wants printed and electronic newspapers to be treated in the same way, which means that electronic newspapers are covered by zero VAT and are subject to payroll tax, just as it is today for the printed newspapers. Personally, I love, I'd like to say, love such a printed newspaper. I think it is fantastic to read things on physical paper; it is much better than on a phone or on an iPad, but I must also acknowledge that, despite my young age, I am quite alone with my enthusiasm for the printed media, and I regret to say that it is going to happen that more and more citizens in this country are reading the news they are getting from something that is not a physical product, but something that is an electronic product. That is why it is important, although, as I personally do, we are lamenting developments, that our tax legislation should be accompanied by technological developments, and zero VAT on newspapers today is an example of the fact that the legislation has not been followed by developments in society. Zero VAT on newspapers has a number of years on the back. The first VAT law was introduced 50 years ago, and at that time a newspaper was marked by its being published on crackling paper. You also got a little black fingers, I think you don't do that anymore, but sometimes you could get it from reading Information. But otherwise you don't usually get black ink on your fingers. By its very nature, it has probably been difficult at the time to imagine that technological developments would mean that today we are reading our newspaper more and more on iPad and on phone, silently and without getting black fingers. That is why it makes sense for zero VAT to be made technology-neutral, so that it is updated to the society we are living in today. If I have to deal with the debate that has then taken place, or the exchange of views that has taken place, then I would like to thank Mr President. Dennis Flydtkjær for the questions and say that I am also glad that he does not expect them to be answered here today, because, as I have said, we have just received them, but we will answer the relevant questions put by the Danish People's Party and would like to do so as soon as possible. Then there are the Socialists who have problems with the duration of the committee work, and there I can be quite honest and say that I am in favour of long consultation periods and also of good time for the parliamentary work, but when we allow ourselves to compromise on this and we do so for the parties who are behind the proposal, it is because we want it to be carried out before there is a parliamentary election. I can almost sense that behind the Social Democrats and Mr. Jesper Petersen's desire for longer time for the committee procedure now lies with a scepticism, and it may be wrong, but a scepticism about whether it is now a good idea to make this bill, and then it could be convenient that we did not get it adopted at all, because then it lapsed, and then you got the opportunity to do it again if you won the election as well as it would be in this way if we had to win the election. So we are making use of what I think is entirely legitimate in a people's government, namely that up to an election date we want to get our things through, when we now have the certainty that we have the majority; I hope and believe that we also have that after elections, but at least now we have the certainty of it. So that is the reason for the tight timetable, and one must be sorry for that, and one must also criticise that, but I think one could find examples of other governments with a red party color doing exactly the same against a parliamentary election. Those are the rules of the game. That's the honest answer. So the reason for the short consultation period is that it has been agreed in the Finance Act and we would like it to be adopted as soon as possible. Then there is the question of equality with other media and this competition analysis. It is quite true that it is the same group of parties that have made the Finance Act that has made the media settlement, first they made the media settlement and then the Finance Act, and there they, the government parties and the Danish People's Party, have decided jointly that we could implement this proposal without a proper media analysis. It would have been optimal if we had had it, but it can only be finished in the autumn, and then, as I said, we can find ourselves in a situation where it is that we cannot get through with the bill, and we would find that a pity. That is why we have compromised that part. We do not know what the analysis will show, but if it shows that more media can come under the zero VAT system, my position here as tax minister and Leftman will be that we would very much like to see that, and then we will have the opportunity to make a legislative proposal in the next session if that is needed. What I also want to say, however, and this may seem unreasonable, but that is the way it is, is that we cannot ensure complete equality between the old classical media and the new electronic media, and that this is because we have a stand still period in Danish: a standstill period in which we actually have some rules that we would never be allowed to introduce if they were to be introduced now that we are a member of the European Union, but we had them before we entered the European Union, and that is why we have been allowed to keep them under the promise that we will not change them. If we change them, we risk removing them completely. And that is why the legal space for changing the rules is very, very limited. If we change the rules, we can decide to do so, but if we do so, we run the risk of someone complaining to the European Commission, and then the blanket is pulled away throughout the zero VAT system. And I could imagine, without being able to say anything concrete, that there are some stakeholders out there who could actually have an interest in it, because it would ensure equality of them, but that would destroy a system that we have politically decided. So that's why the legal space to change these criteria is very, very limited. If you want to change the rules, you can do three things. You can remove zero VAT and then instead grant a subsidy corresponding to the tax value of zero VAT to various media. I think there are some media who would be unhappy about that, because then there would be politicians who thought that something should be supported more than anything else, so you might want to avoid that, but you could choose to do so within the EU rules and thus ensure equality. The other way of doing this is of course by introducing differentiated VAT, and I would like to and there I fully agree with the rapporteur from the Socialist Group in the European Parliament. It is almost the only part of our tax system that is fairly simple, namely that we have a VAT rate. Either you pay VAT or you don't. But the two options are there. If there is more space, I, as Minister for Taxation, can give the undertaking that we want to ensure that new media can come under the old regime. However, the possibility of changing the criteria is very limited in legal terms, otherwise the carpet could be pulled away under the zero VAT system as a whole. Is that fair? It is not, as it were, but it is the rules that apply, and we all have to operate under them. I would like to thank you for the debate and look forward to a good, constructive and, I hope, rapid committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410143610	Thank you. There are brief comments and the first is from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410143614	Thank you. I don't know if it was crystal clear when I was up on the platform, but in SF, we support the intent of this bill. That is what we are doing; it is our policy. I just find it a little regrettable that there are so many problems not only with the bill, but also with everything around. I fully hear what the Minister of Taxation says: that there are simply some timing issues, in relation to what the Commission is coming up with, in relation to the VAT directive, in relation to the competition report that is not yet ready, etc. etc. However, I was just talking to my colleague from the Enhedslisten about the fact that somehow this should also have been discussed by the media rapporteurs, because there is also a very heavy media policy agenda in this: what do we think is public service? What will we support? And these are the definitions that are not just about technology, but which are absolutely crucial to what kind of media policy we want to pursue and what kind of media we want to support. That's mostly a comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410143720	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410143722	Yeah, and I'll take note of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410143724	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen is resigning. Then it's mr. Jesper Petersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410143728	I'm really glad that the tax minister is just saying it the way it is. The rapporteur of the Left could have done the same. However, it is a question of wanting to get it through before there are elections, and then you have to push it through the committee procedure. It has also been pointed out, as a party, that it was extremely important that the committee procedure was thorough and good. However, the draft law must be implemented in an expedited manner, because it must be implemented before there is a parliamentary election. We haven't made up our minds how we think this should be if power should change. And I just have to remind the Minister of Taxation that the problem of having made a narrow media settlement is that whether it has been implemented or not, whether it has been cancelled or not, before elections are held, there has been no securing a majority for its affairs in the future, that is, because it has been made a narrow media settlement and did not want to anchor it across the middle of politics. Then you have the problem that the government now has. What I really would like to ask the tax minister is: if you then acknowledge that you are not going to carry out the study that was planned it would otherwise have been wise because of this electoral considerations, why has the bill not been tabled, for example? A month ago?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410143840	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410143842	Well, I wish you'd done that too. After all, it comes as no surprise that the Finance Act has agreed that this zero VAT will apply from 1 January 2020, and then you will check whether it can be brought forward or try to push it forward. To be honest, I was not really aware that it was agreed. In the end, this is how it is sometimes with finance agreements: that it is agreed just at the last minute. So it was new to me, and that's why I was so surprised by it. We have then worked on that, and there has also been a process in the government that costs 15 million. kr. extra, and it has half-yearly effect. But, of course, we want to deliver on that, and that is because it has been agreed in the Finance Act. I would have liked all of us to have been aware of this a little earlier, because hopefully it would have been adopted now, including through a thorough committee procedure. But that does not change the fact that we can easily adopt it here and wait for the analysis, and if it then shows some options, then we can implement the additional things with a legislative proposal in the next session. It's possible. So I would urge the Socialists to vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410143945	Then it's mr. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410143947	Now, I guess the purpose of the analysis wasn't just to deal with the possibilities of including more. This could be due to the amendment of the EU VAT directive. But the point was also to have to examine what the consequences would be for the market that is if a bill such as this, which the government now recognizes is not perfect, is implemented, according to Mr. Joachim B. Olsen's observations. So that's why you had to wait for it. But that is not being done, and I do not quite know whether I can put it here as a question, but I would just like to make the fantastic observation that it is not ideal to recognise that an agreement had been reached on an investigation for other reasons, and it simply does not get through because the government has got busy. So that's what we have to deal with, right?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410144034	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410144036	One thing has been agreed in the media settlement, and then political attitudes change and also wants out in the industry, among other things. from some of the established printed media, as to whether they want to get it through quickly. And then the government, together with the Danish People's Party, decides to change the agreement. I mean, you could do that in any other area of agreement. Then, of course, you can discuss how pretty it looks, but I think you can now find thousands of examples under this or the previous government that you have done something similar. There is nothing to prevent us from taking the results of the analysis when they come in the autumn and looking at them, and if it allows us to improve legislation, we can do it or do something in the European Union. And that will be the government's starting point.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410144122	There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. And if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410144137	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is from the Socialists, and that is Mr President. Kaare Dybvad. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410144157	Thank you for that, President. We support the bill here in the Social Democratic Party. We do this because we think it is healthy that we should have more mixed housing areas. We believe that it is healthy to have owner-occupied housing, general housing, cooperative housing and other types of housing in the same buildings and, in so far as this is the case, in the same dwellings. There have been several cases that it has been difficult to make these things up to the construction and the way in which the funding is put together and in relation to the permits to be obtained from the municipalities. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party believe it is extremely important that we make it as easy as possible for municipalities, housing organisations and private investors to build homes where the different types of ownership are mixed. You can also see, if you read the consultation answers to this proposal, that there is clear support from the relevant parties. In other words, we can agree to this in the Social Democratic Party. So, with these comments, I must say that we agree with the proposal, and I should also like to welcome the Socialist People's Party and say that they also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410144308	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Merete Dea Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410144318	It is a very good proposal that we have to deal with now, which will support the construction of general housing where it is a little more difficult today. Cooperation between private parties and housing organisations will be facilitated so that we can work more closely in the future with mixed housing. The proposal is mostly a positive response from among others. Denmark's General Housing, Construction Damage Fund, Danish Construction, National Association of Municipalities and Council of Social Affairs. Of course, some consultation parties want to go a little further, and others fear that the municipalities will not fulfil their supervisory responsibilities and are therefore concerned. The Danish People's Party can thus see it from both sides, but finds that the bill is precisely balanced enough to make the law more flexible in terms of being able to build generally in more expensive areas in the future. We can therefore support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410144415	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Carsten Kissmeyer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410144421	Thank you for the floor. We note that today it is a good day for general housing organisations and private developers who, with this bill, have more flexible and clearer rules on the possibilities for cooperation. The draft law will make it easier for housing organisations to build mixed housing in cooperation with private parties. And this may be needed, even in rural areas where there is not so much need for housing. There you can then get a mixed housing environment, by perhaps in the same block or the same local plan area you can have both private and general housing. And you can ask the private developer to build the homes and then hand them over to the general housing company afterwards. In fact, this is already happening today, but it has been a bit difficult and there has been no clear framework for cooperation. I know it myself from my past as mayor of Ikast-Brande Municipality, where we actually had a goal that half of the housing in a local planning area should be private, and the other half could be general. And we have actually been working on that opportunity; it has just been a little bit difficult to comply with all the rules. The proposal does not alter the general requirements for non-profit housing on quality, supply, financing, etc. Those demands still have to be met. However, the municipalities will have some more opportunities to ensure a varied housing stock, and this is very positive. And I am delighted that there is a lot of support for this in the Parliamentary Chamber. Thank you very much for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410144610	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then we move on to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410144625	Thank you. The Enhedslisten can support this amendment to the General Housing Act. We would very much like to see in the Enhedslisten that we promote the construction of more general housing and that it is made easier for municipalities to come to the conclusion that more general housing needs to be built. We are so aware that the good adoption that was decided back in 2015 gave municipalities the opportunity to define that in new local planning areas general housing should be built up up up to 25%, in some cases may cause some planning problems if there is a potential builder who has bought a land and had the expectation that it would all be a different type of construction, and then it will be clarified through the local planning process that there should be a certain amount of general housing. There you may have come quite a long way in your planning process, and if this bill can help to ensure that it is easier to deal with, we think it is extremely positive. I have noted that there is a delegated builder model that is currently being used in some places and that, in connection with some things that are going on around planning, mixed construction is being carried out. I have also noted that there have been two consultation processes, and there is, of course, reason to commend the Minister for having listened to what has been said by BL and KL in the first round of consultations. That criticism has been accepted, and the bill has been adjusted. We think that's really good. And we hope that this bill will help to make it easier for municipalities to come to the conclusion that new local planning areas will require the construction of general housing, because they have legislation that makes it so easy to handle, and that they can have construction work where the task of the housing association may be reduced, and that in this way they can encourage more general housing in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410144833	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We move on to the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Villum Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410144841	Thank you. Let me start by saying that the Liberal Alliance supports the bill. Of course, it is important for us to provide the general housing organisations with as broad a framework as possible in order to be able to cooperate with private actors. These frameworks are now being expanded and made clear by this bill, so that in future we can receive public support for the establishment of general housing in cooperation with a private party, also in a way that will actually receive a turnkey project. Then, of course, we have also taken note of the very positive consultation responses, which include, among other things: The housing companies stress that here we will have a more flexible system and a greater degree of clarification of the responsibilities, and this is always important in large building cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410144936	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the rapporteur of the alternative, and that is Mr Beyer de Ryke. Roger Courage Matthisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410144944	Thank you. The proposal has been submitted for consultation on 15 November 2018. Following a number of criticisms from both BL and the Construction Damage Fund, the proposal has undergone a review which has been well examined by the previous rapporteurs. Subsequently, it has been in consultation again, and both BL and the Construction Damage Fund are in favour. Your criticism has been taken note of, at least, and that is why we can also support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410145013	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the Radical Left rapporteur. I do not see anyone from the Radical Left, so we go further in the rapporteur's line, and that is for the Conservative rapporteur, and that is Mr Conservative. Anders Johansson. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410145034	Thank you very much. As the previous rapporteurs have also pointed out, the aim of the draft law is to support the construction of mixed housing by providing the general housing organizations and private developers with more, better and more flexible opportunities for cooperation in establishing publicly supported general housing with private housing. The draft law ensures that existing opportunities for the establishment of general housing can be better exploited, and in addition, the proposal also provides municipalities with more opportunities to ensure a varied housing stock, but of course, taking into account the requirements relating to the quality, size, supply and so on. Of course, we in the Conservative People's Party can fully support this, in other words that we will have this better opportunity to cooperate between the actors, while at the same time supporting the construction of more mixed housing. So it is really positive and we also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410145136	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then we give the floor to the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410145145	Thank you for that, and thank you to the rapporteurs for the positive reception of the draft law. The aim of the bill is to strengthen the construction of mixed housing by extending the legal framework for a commitment to public support in order to facilitate cooperation between general housing organisations and private developers. The rules in force in the General Housing Act, etc. sets out a number of requirements to be met by general housing organisations when setting up new buildings with public support. The current basic model for the establishment of general housing with public support presupposes that the general housing organisation necessarily acquires an unbuilt land and establishes general housing by sending the contract task to tender. Basically, the establishment of general housing for new buildings is about a relationship between a general housing organisation and a total contractor. If a general housing organisation cannot necessarily acquire an unbuilt land, the housing organisation will have to cooperate with private parties, typically a private developer. This happens, for example, in cases where general housing has to be integrated with other types of housing and/or occupation, the construction of which is typically managed by a private developer. In particular, urban development in large cities, where there are fewer and fewer land sites, requires housing to be built in cooperation between housing organisations and private developers. The 25-percent rule of the Plan Act also presupposes that the dwellings are mixed and that general and private dwellings are built side by side or on top of each other and mixed with occupations. The proposal extends the possibility for general housing organisations to receive a public subsidy in situations where the establishment of general housing requires cooperation with a private party. This is something that is already happening to some extent, as there is a strong need for it, but the limit of cooperation is not so clear today, which creates uncertainty among general housing organisations, private developers and, above all, mortgage institutions. With the bill, we will remove any uncertainty about the scope and content of cooperation. We extend the framework for the establishment of general housing for new buildings and leave it to the parties to decide how the framework should be completed. In the extreme case, the proposal allows for the establishment of general housing in situations where, following an agreement with a general housing organisation, the private party constructs general housing and delivers them to the housing organisation for operation • what is popularly called turnkey construction. In short, with the proposal, general housing organisations and private developers will have a broad range of cooperation opportunities when they have to establish public housing with private housing to promote mixed housing with public support. The proposal will thus provide the municipalities with additional tools to ensure a varied housing stock. Requirements of the General Housing Act concerning the quality, size, layout, procurement, financing, etc. We must, of course, continue to do so. The proposal includes the establishment of all types of general housing for new buildings, general family, youth and elderly dwellings. I would like to thank you once again for your positive comments. I look forward to the committee reading in the same positive spirit.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410145505	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport, Building and Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410145522	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is from the Socialists, and that is Mr President. Rasmus Prehn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410145541	With this bill it is proposed that young people of 16 years of age can take a driving licence for big mopeds or what you call moped 45. Today, the rules are that you have to be 18 years old. It is so that if you look at the rest of the EU, Denmark stands out with Malta as the only places where you have to be 18 years old in order to drive a big moped. Anywhere else, you can get started sooner, typically when you're 16 years old. So there is something reasonable about adapting the rules to what is going on in the rest of the European Union. It is, of course, a process which we have had over several years now, in which we have had resolutions and other things in which it has been proposed to change these rules, because it can be seen that many young people, especially in the province, find it difficult to reconcile their transport needs. Unfortunately, we are in a situation, also because of government cuts and other things, where public transport in sparsely populated areas is very small. In many places the educational institutions are also so scattered that it is difficult to reach by bicycle or other, so if you have to transport, you are dependent on having a moped, and since being able to drive on a moped 45 allows you to get there faster than driving on a traditional moped, it also makes the probability that you may choose to drive on a regular moped, which is tuned and thus more uncertain, is bigger, and then you may be able to get people to take a moped 45 instead, and it will be positive and more secure. It is clear that when you open up to younger people having to drive more on mopeds, of course there are those who care about road safety who are worried about this and say: Be careful, we have seen accidents and things like that in the past. This has been a factor in the fact that we Social Democrats have been very sceptical about this in the past and were worried and thought that we should not hold back a little in this area, because if we risk more accidents, is that bad? Now we have delved a little into the experience of other European countries, and it does not actually look like there are any more accidents due to the fact that you start earlier with moped 45, and that makes us think that it may be okay to try it out for a period of time. We know that the draft law here provides that it is a permanent change of law, but we see that we see, for example, that we are in favour of it. In three years' time, we'll be looking at what we really look like with the experience. If we have a dull development in the number of accidents, then we have to try to change it again. But precisely the argument that there may be young people living in more sparsely populated areas who would like to go to and from high school, to and from technical school, to and from their apprenticeship or something else, and who will have some greater mobility by having access to moped 45, which is also safer than a tuned regular moped, makes us open to this proposal. Having said that, we would like to say that this is where we can now run on moped 45 already at the age of 16, since it should not mean that young people start cycling less, or that we use it as an argument to save further on public transport. For us Social Democrats, it is very crucial that we encourage and motivate young people to cycle as much as possible, because it is good for the climate, it is good for the environment, and so it is good for health. We know from the various studies that cycling just 1⁄2 hours a day helps reduce these lifestyle diseases by over 40%, which is why it is important to get a good cycling culture into early life. So it should not become a sleeping pillow in the direction of not choosing the bike for. There we must both as parents and as a society press for as many people as possible to ride bicycles. In terms of ensuring public transport, we also have a huge task to do there. But choosing a moped 45 can be a step in the right direction to make it easier for people to take care of their education and that is why we are in on this. But we are going to write into our report's submission that we would like to see this evaluated after, for example. 3 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410150010	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Roger Courage Matthiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410150013	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. We're worried, but so are you, I understand. What is the rapporteur's position on making a specific amendment in which an evaluation will be carried out within a few years, for example. Two years? That is the first question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410150034	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410150035	We Socialists are preoccupied with the fact that some experience is being gained from this area, that we are evaluating it and are willing to change something if it turns out to have a battle side in the direction of more accidents. And if it is the case that there is an amendment to it, then we would like to look at it. I think that in any case we are in a rather strange situation, because it is so soon before a parliamentary election, so the majority consensus that is in the Folketing right now probably looks different on the other side of an election. So what is most important is that we are told at first reading that we are ready to evaluate it. We would also like to include it in the report. But I also think that we can be in favour of an amendment. I may be afraid that we will not get a majority in favour of this, but we would like to commit ourselves to looking at this in three years' time. And then change it, if that's the case, there's a boring side of battle.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410150132	Roger Courage Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410150133	Thank you. After all, we have dealt with this in the House in the past, as the rapporteur also says, where most people point out that there are too many risks in raising the limit. I do not know whether the parties have changed their position now. However, I would like to say briefly that the European Road Safety Observatory has produced a collection of knowledge on moped driving from many countries. After all, they conclude that there is a greater risk for younger moped riders. I heard in the rapporteur's speech that there are some other results that the rapporteur does not support.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410150209	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410150210	It is quite true that the general picture is that when you drive moped, there are more accidents, the younger you are. There is a tendency to do so, and that is why we have been sceptical. What I said was that when you look at the other countries where you start with moped 45 at the age of 16, it is not the case that this alone has caused more accidents. At least that's what I've seen. Well, there might just as well be accidents on the conventional moped. Also because there may then be some who choose to tune and drill it so that it becomes more insecure in this way. That is why I believe that it can help to ensure greater road safety, that you get a moped 45, which can drive a little faster, but legally.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410150257	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall now proceed to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Claus Kvist Hansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410150305	The draft law here is based on motion for a resolution No. B 7 on driving licences for large mopeds for 16-year-olds, which the Danish People's Party submitted earlier in this parliamentary assembly and which was adopted in February this year. In the Danish People's Party we are convinced that the proposal will strengthen the mobility of young people, particularly in the sparsely populated areas of Denmark, where among others. access to public transport can be sparing. And the bill can also help to increase road safety, because the current rules are such that 16-year-olds must operate a moped at a maximum speed of 30 km/h, but many young people tune their moped so that they can drive much faster and that makes them dangerous. It is estimated that up to half of the young people drive on such mopeds, which in some cases can run up to 70 km/h, and by giving the 16-year-olds the opportunity to drive large mopeds, a substantial part of the incentive to tune the moped is removed. In addition, most of these moped crashes with injury caused by drunk driving, too high speed and without a helmet. The bill also ensures that Denmark is in line with the rest of the EU when it comes to age requirements for young people's access to large moped driving. Most EU countries today have an age limit of 16 years in this area. Denmark and Malta are the only ones with an age limit of 18 for obtaining driving licences for large mopeds. The Danish People's Party has been working for several years to give 16-year-olds an opportunity to take a driving licence for big mopeds, so we naturally support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410150436	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Roger Courage Matthisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410150439	Thank you. I always think it is wonderful when the parties see that the EU can do something good, and here the Danish People's Party wants to harmonise. But there is also a reverse of the coin in relation to road safety. Now the rapporteur says that speeds of up to 70 km/h are being measured, where some have tuned and drilled their mopeds illegally. What makes the rapporteur think that this will end only by raising the speed limit for younger drivers? After all, the same tools are still available in relation to the ability to process an engine.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410150524	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410150525	But it is simply a question of believing in the good in man. And we believe that if the young people sit down on a moped that has speed, that is, where you can feel that you are driving and where you are actually moving, most people will already say that it meets their needs and that they can get back and forth to school, athletics or whatever. And thus, a bit of the drama and the fun may go off in relation to going the step further and tune and drill and pick, and whatever else it is called, to manipulate its moped. So it is simply a question of whether you believe that this means that young people have their need for fast transport met or not. I would also like to make a comment on the good thing about the European Union. In fact, I do not believe that the questioner has ever caught me talking about the good thing about the European Union, but here, after all, is an effect where we say: well, Danish young people should not be put worse than young people in the rest of the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410150623	Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410150624	Thank you. Well, then, I have certainly taken the rapporteur to say that right now. But I think it's good to have that attitude. Now I have conducted a survey among young people who have friends and who have a social network that drills their mopeds, and they did not have the impression that the young people would stop drilling their mopeds even if they could legally drive faster. It can't be a representative analysis I've done so many people I haven't hired but shouldn't we do some more research on it before we allow it for young people, as everything else equal to the evidence we have today, has a greater risk of accidents and more deaths if you increase speed?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410150708	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410150710	I think that the rapporteur's line of thought is actually very sympathetic, but the question is: how far can one look forward to assessing whether young people of a certain age class will refrain from manipulating their mopeds if they have an alternative, if I may say so? I do not think that can be researched into that, I simply do not think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410150736	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. And we move on to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr. Carsten Kissmeyer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410150744	Thank you for the floor. The bill that we are debating today proposes a change in the traffic law so that in the future it will be possible for 16-year-olds to drive on a so-called large moped, i.e. a moped that can drive 45 km/h. The draft law helps to strengthen the mobility of young people in rural areas, where the distance between cities is longer and public transport is not easily accessible. Here you are dependent on easier to transport around. This applies, among other things, to: students and apprentices who will experience faster and easier transport to and from education, work and leisure activities. Giving 16-year-olds the opportunity to acquire driving licences for large mopeds helps to improve road safety, as this includes: will result in fewer tuned small mopeds. It is our assessment that being able to reach 45 km/h. After all, it will be a change compared to what a small moped can do. In addition, early experience is given with the vehicle, which may benefit young people when they get a driving licence for another vehicle that can drive faster when they reach 18 years of age. Last but not least, the bill helps to ensure that Denmark is in line with the EU when it comes to age requirements for young people's access to large moped rides. It is important for us that the proposal does not have consequences for road safety when choosing to reduce the age of driving licences to large mopeds. For it is crucial that we also give high priority to road safety, but I think we are doing the same with the legislative proposal. Among other things: in the Havari Commission's analysis from 2018 it turns out that the vast majority of moped accidents occur due to drunken moped drivers, or because the driver drives too fast at an average speed of 50 km/h. on the little mopeds. Furthermore, the new DTU report shows that it cannot be clearly concluded that if we reduce age, there will be a deterioration in road safety. With the bill, we will oppose young people's desire to tune a moped to 50 km/h, as the big mopeds already drive 45 km/h. And this reduces the moped speed if the logic lasts 5 km/h. for those who would otherwise have tuned their moped. I do not think the young people will make any extra effort to tune a moped to get up further by 5 km/h. We therefore take the view that the bill will help to strengthen road safety and reduce road accidents for young moped drivers in particular, and we also see that it will contribute to more and better experience on the roads with a large moped driving licence, which will later benefit young people if they want to take a driving licence. It has long been a wish for the Left to change the rules in this area, and I am therefore pleased to be able to stand here today in the legislative process. Together with the previous introduction of driving licences for small mopeds from 15 years in 2016, this is an important, significant increase in the mobility of young people, particularly in the countryside. With that said, the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410151047	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410151048	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. I am somewhat surprised at the statement: it will increase road safety, that is our assessment. I would like to hear from the rapporteur: who is ours in that statement? Is that the Left Party? And on what is that based? Then I would like to refer to the foreign experience of the European Road Safety Observatory, which has, of course, produced an analysis of moped and motorcycle accidents which shows that younger drivers are more at risk. What is the rapporteur's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410151126	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410151127	I refer once again to the Commission's analysis from 2018, which shows that the vast majority of moped accidents occur due to intoxication, or because you drive too fast on a tuned moped, a tuned little moped. That is what we are building on, and I can confirm that is the view of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410151148	Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410151149	Okay, thanks for that deepening. So what makes the rapporteur think that, first of all, fewer people drive drunk on mopeds because they raise speed. Secondly, what makes the rapporteur think that if nobody has been asked whether their behaviour will change? It's just an assumption. No analysis has been carried out. Does the Party of the Left, the Danish Liberal Party, wish to initiate any research in this field?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410151218	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410151219	I believe that we are in a situation where I have not said in any way that drunkenness will be less, but we do not believe that drunkenness will be greater if a speed limit of 45 km/h is introduced. For moped. And I am of the opinion that a number of moped drivers are also in a different age group from the very young, and whether drunkenness is more pronounced in young people than in the elderly, I simply do not know.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410151246	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. Carsten Kissmeyer Thank you for the floor). I see no one from the Enhedslisten, so we move on to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, and that is Mr. Villum Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410151259	Thank you. In large parts of the country, where buses don't drive every 5 minutes and school is far away, the only option is for many young people to take the trip by bike or moped. If we are to encourage more young people to train at the local educational institution or maybe just stay in the area rather than move to Copenhagen, Aarhus or Aalborg, we need to improve their ability to transport. It's pretty basic. And we do, among other things. with this proposal. I am pleased that the Minister has done a thorough job in drafting the bill, which has been a very long time in the process, for example. by asking DTU to examine the road safety consequences of lowering the age limit from 18 to 16 years. We agree that there are very marginal differences in road safety, and we therefore have no doubts that we are lowering the age limit so that it corresponds to the other countries in Europe. Then I should like to welcome the Conservatives and say that they agree with that view.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410151416	Thank you. There does not seem to be any brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur of the alternative, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Roger Courage Matthisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410151426	Thank you. First of all, the alternative is very much in favour of increased mobility in rural areas; we support the need to stop the depopulation that is taking place, the centralisation that is taking place. We have presented a large plan with 38 proposals for this, called a coherent Denmark. I have to lean on the consultation answers that I think we should give the highest weight when we talk about road safety. There the National Police say that the proposal will have a negative impact on road safety. They refer to DTU's report, which one can of course choose to interpret in the way one considers to be most impact-resistant for one's party, but DTU considers that the accident risk to some extent follows the driver of the vehicle, and according to the National Police, this means that the bill will lead to a marked increase in the number of seriously injured and killed if more people choose to drive on large mopeds. That's what the National Police are assessing. The Council for Safe Transport cannot support the proposal as they believe that it will not benefit road safety. On the contrary, it considers that it is working against the objectives of the Road Safety Commission's action plan to reduce the number of people killed and injured in traffic. And then there are a number of further points of view. But as I also started by mentioning, I do not think we have enough evidence to release them, at least not unlimited. Perhaps a trial period could then be tried out, and I would like to propose amendments to the draft law. But as a starting point, the alternative cannot support the proposal, regardless of its good intentions.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410151625	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We move on to the Radical Left's rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Andreas Steenberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410151632	In the Radical Left, we have not changed our position on this issue over the many times it has been discussed in recent years. We still think it is too much to compromise on road safety to let the 16-18-year-olds drive on big mopeds. It is quite remarkable that even the National Police have given a hearing answer where they strongly advise against adopting this bill. The language used by the National Police is quite significant. In this way, the National Police are in line with the Council for Safe Traffic, the Technical University of Denmark and many others in the consultation answers available. The reason is that it can simply be seen that the number of very serious accidents per year. mileage is very high on both small and large mopeds, which is why it can be said that it is one of the most dangerous means of transport. It is also quite dangerous to let young people who have no experience of driving vehicles for many years, for example, drive large mopeds, which can drive quite a lot of miles an hour. We in the Radical Left are following the very, very critical consultation responses that are and cannot support that bill here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410151759	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410151802	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. In the alternative, we are very much in agreement with the position of the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party. Now we're pretty close to an election, and it looks like there's a majority for this bill. I asked the former Social Democrat rapporteur whether they would be in favour of an amendment which states that we will only be able to reduce age for a limited period of time. Despite the fact that you are voting against the final proposal, could the rapporteur be interested in supporting this, so that we send a signal to a future government at least, should power change after an election?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410151842	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410151843	I think that sounds like a good idea. We want to be a part of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410151852	Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen? He's gonna drop out. There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and move on to the SF rapporteur, and that is Mr Beyer de Ryke. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410151858	Well, I can understand that there are young people who would like to be more mobile and be able to get around and have their own moped, and when you have one, you typically want it to go as fast as possible so that you can get there. So I do not find it difficult to understand the desire and desire to be freer from other means of transport. But regardless of the fact that there will be some young people who think it might be so nice, we have to look at what this will have to do with road safety. We can see here in the hearings that it is quite clear that it is being dissuaded. The National Police writes: In the opinion of the National Police, it must be assumed that the implementation of the proposal to reduce the age limit for professional and driving licences to large mopeds will have a negative impact on road safety. The Safe Transport Council cannot support the proposal, as we do not believe that it will benefit road safety, but on the contrary we are working against the objective of the Road Safety Commission's action plan to reduce the number of people killed and injured in traffic. They end by also linking themselves to the international experience where they write: European Road Safety Observatory has prepared a collection of knowledge about mopeds and mc from many countries. They conclude that younger motorists and moped drivers have a much higher risk than older people and that an effective reduction in the risk of accidents with mopeds and motorcycles is only possible by having a restrictive driving licence system with high age limits, better driving training and tests, as well as less powerful engines or restrictions on the top speeds of vehicles. So, on that basis, the SF cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410152050	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410152053	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. We very much agree with the position of both the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party, which I also asked the radical rapporteur. After all, there is a majority in favour of the draft law, which we must recognise and when it will then be changed will depend on how power lies after elections. So would the rapporteur be interested in whether we could get the Social Democratic Party to agree to an amendment which means that at least we limit the period and then look at the bill again? What is the rapporteur's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410152125	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410152127	Yeah, let's try it. But the same majority does not appear in relation to such an amendment. But by all means.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410152135	Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410152137	I am sure it will, but we certainly need to get the Social Democratic Party to send some expression of opinion if power changes after elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410152147	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410152149	Yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410152151	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we give the floor to the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410152158	Thank you for that and thank the rapporteurs for their comments on the draft law. Mobility is a priority for the government. In the sparsely populated areas of Denmark, where access to public transport can be sparse, it is particularly important to pay attention to mobility promotion measures. Here young people with an active life where education, leisure activities, jobs and friends need to be particularly challenged, and we want to help them. I believe that reducing the age limit for driving licences to large mopeds from 18 years to 16 years could contribute to increased mobility for young people. In this way, from an earlier age, they will have the opportunity to move back and forth more quickly between their various activities. At the same time, I believe that it is important for mobility to be strengthened in a road safety-friendly manner. Therefore, we have got Denmark's Technical University for among other things. to examine the road safety aspects by reducing the age limit to 16 years. According to the report submitted by DTU, it cannot be clearly concluded that a reduction in age would harm road safety. In short, the report concludes that the effect on road safety depends firstly on the proportion of young people who will choose to use large mopeds. Secondly, the effect on road safety depends to a very large extent on whether the risk is vehicle-specific or whether the risk follows the driver, i.e. whether the 16-year-old takes his age-specific risk behaviour into the driving of the big moped. If the risk follows the driver, a reduction in the age limit would have a certain negative impact on road safety. In this respect, the report indicates that the accident analysis of the report suggests that the risk is at least to some extent a follow-up to the driver. At the same time, however, the report indicates that further analyses are necessary to determine with certainty whether the risk follows the vehicle or the driver. Against this background, I do not believe that the DTU report clearly concludes that a reduction in age would harm road safety. At the same time, I believe that reducing the age limit to 16 years can help to reduce the spread of small tuned mopeds. Tuned small mopeds pose a road safety problem, including: because they are taken on the bike path at significantly higher speed than 30 km/h. In addition, the driver has not received driver training in driving at the high speeds. A reduction in the number of tuned small mopeds would therefore have a positive effect on road safety. I therefore believe that, overall, increased mobility through the reduction of the age limit for driving licences to large mopeds can be achieved without significant negative consequences for road safety, and, when that is the case, I believe that we should give young people the opportunity to use a vehicle with greater mobility potential. I look forward to further discussion in the Folketing, and I am, of course, available to answer any questions that may arise in this connection. Allow me to ask another question: if you now know that it is more uncertain for people to ride a bicycle than driving a car or a bus, do you want to limit the use of a bicycle in society, because in this way you will be able to reduce the number of road accidents? Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410152520	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410152524	Thank you. To the Minister's final comment, this is a false premise because we know that the effect of cycling instead of getting into a car in relation to public health is much higher. So I do not think that is a valid argument. However, the Minister talks about DTU's analysis and says that they conclude that further analysis is needed before they can finally say that there is a greater road safety risk. But where is the precautionary principle on the part of the Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410152602	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410152603	Well, the precautionary principle has to go all the way. If you do not have a clear idea of reducing road safety, should you restrict mobility in society when you do not know that this clearly leads to more road safety? You can be careful in all kinds of ways. One can also be careful about implementing legislation or maintaining legislation where one does not know if it has a positive effect, but only knows - because one has a knowledge that it has a negative effect on mobility. Legislative caution in regulating more than is necessary should also be appropriate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410152647	Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410152648	That's actually quite interesting, because there's one of the parameters in Teresa, that is, one of the traffic models in the Ministry. What I hear the Minister say is that economic considerations have an advantage over the precautionary principle of human life in relation to road safety. Is that how I should understand the argument?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410152709	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410152710	Now I don't know why, sir. Roger Courage Matthisen called it economic considerations. These are reasons for mobility. They can be made up in the economy, but they can also be made up of an experience of being able to participate in society, being able to participate in society, and it is not narrow economy. It's well-being, welfare, welfare benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410152737	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. So we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport, Building and Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410152753	The debate has been opened and the first one we are giving the floor to is the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410152816	Thank you. We are dealing here with a motion for a resolution by the Radical Left on the possibility of avoiding the demolition of general housing in hard ghetto areas. In concrete terms, the proposal means that hard ghetto areas will be exempted from drawing up a development plan if they can come out of the ghetto list within two years. The motion for a resolution shows that perhaps the Radical Left has not fully grasped the content of the legislation which implements the agreement on initiatives in the field of housing, which counteracts parallel societies. It is an agreement which, moreover, has been adopted by a very large majority in the Folketing, which basically agrees that the time has come for us to tackle the problems. The consequence of the agreement is not, as argued, that good and attractive housing is to be demolished, on the contrary. And I am surprised that the Radical Left is going to set a factual agenda for such a debate which is just wrong. This does not indicate that you have pure flour in the Radical Left bag when you feel the need to advance your cause by using falsehoods. The agreement provides that municipalities and housing organisations will jointly find a solution to the obvious problems that exist in the ghetto regions. For example, it is solutions such as new construction, sealing and renovations that can maintain and attract resourceful residents, creating a mixed housing and housing mix. So that the transformations will be done with demolitions alone is taken out of thin air. We see quite specifically that the areas are planning to use the entire palette of tools that have been made available. The local plans provide for new housing to be built in the hard ghettos, for example. youth housing, and that housing must be sold. And the latest sales analysis shows that sales to a large extent are possible if you want to do so locally. The resolution is really about postponing all development plans by two years to see if some of the areas come off the list using the existing tools, that is, tools that municipalities and housing organisations have been able to use for a very long time. This has so far shown little effect. It is good that, for example, employment efforts continue, but I do not believe that they will produce a lasting effect alone. Furthermore, the Parallel Society Agreement does not aim to get just 20-30 people into employment in the hard ghetto regions, but aims to make a decisive physical and structural change in the areas. There must therefore be something more ambitious for which, fortunately, there is a majority in the Folketing. The fact that 58 000 people are waiting for the areas at the same time is very positive. So this suggests that people want to live in the areas. So why should this not be the case when a development plan with new housing, jobs and institutions has been implemented? Overall, the legislation already adopted ensures that a lasting change is initiated, not only for current residents, but also for future generations who will grow up in more well-functioning residential areas. The new legislation is more important than it has been in the past, and it is precisely in relation to the ghetto areas that we must note that it is necessary because the housing policy of the past has not worked well enough. The government cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410153151	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410153155	Now the minister mentioned that there are 58,000 people on the waiting list for these homes, and when you have the prospect that in a large number of these housing associations there are some homes facing sale or demolition, or that you build new buildings close to the apartments that lie there, there are certainly some of the 58,000 people who do not want to move in. I mean, why would you move in a place where you can risk having to move again because the housing you have is being sold or being demolished? So the legislation that has been adopted is damaging the success story that so many people are actually on the waiting list in the general sector in these residential areas. That is why I understand that there are parties in the Folketing that are trying to change the foolish laws that have been adopted in here. I have a question for the Minister, because the Minister mentioned that youth housing can be rebranded. Is it not true that youth housing cannot be redesigned without changing these family homes, that is to say it is the only option, and that you cannot simply rebrand if you want to promote a community in a large family home?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410153301	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410153301-2	It depends on the interior design of the home, but in general it is nothing new that Enhedslisten is just against this; that Enhedslisten thinks that we should let things sail out in the ghetto areas. For Enhedslisten it seems quite fine that people are primarily from ethnic origins other than Denmark, gathering themselves in certain residential areas for hundreds and thousands of homes and living a culture based on the fact that you do not participate in society, do not have a job, but on the contrary are more represented in crime statistics than people elsewhere in the country. This kind of negative parallel society formation sees Enhedslisten quite carelessly, and one only defends the idea that these general housing organisations should remain unchanged forever. For Enhedslisten, an institutional party is more defending the institution the general housing organisation than wanting something good for society. Special interests are always free to play with Enhedslisten, and so is this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410153405	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410153407	I think the Minister should turn down the electoral rhetoric a little, because we do not want it to sail. We really want to use these housing social plans, which have been carried out in many places and which have a great effect. It can be said that today's proposals by the Radicals will give a break to some of these residential areas by saying: what about just doing an employment effort, what about trying to help those people instead of removing their homes? Then I wondered at the Minister's reply just now, because the Minister has in fact replied in writing to me on this matter of rewriting youth housing, and there the Minister has pointed out that we cannot just do that. But it could be that the Minister had to go back and read the answer he gave me in writing, because it must still be said that it is not possible to rename youth housing without remodeling. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410153452	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410153453	Well, to what extent do you have to rebuild depends on how the accommodation is arranged? So that's right, even though it's true what I wrote in my answer to Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. But once again, I just have to say that the Enhedslisten is not concerned with solving problems, it is only concerned with advocating short-term special interests that do not, I think, take care to solve the major problems of society. Enhedslisten is in the shape more such a show party. You bring out a show in hopes of getting a lot of voices, and if reality and how to solve the problems of reality get in the way of it, you'd rather do and perform the show.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410153534	Then it's mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410153536	Thank you. I am, of course, radically more interested in solving the social problems in the residential areas we are talking about here than starting to tear down houses. I have an example, such as the Finland Park in Vejle, which, if only 14 people are transferred into employment from passive support, would then be able to get off the list. This could also happen if we adopted the legislative proposal that is before us now. What does the Minister say? Should we not really concentrate on social problems rather than on the physical framework of social problems?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410153607	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410153608	Yes, but the social problems are compounded by the fact that people with social problems live close to each other and to a large extent only interact with each other rather than with the rest of society, where there are no social problems. I think the Radical Left is also aware of this, i.e. that the social problems are being exacerbated in these residential areas and that is what we are going to do about it. Sometimes the Radicals simply choose to take a stand which does not relate to the real problems, because one would rather be clean in a matter where standing as clean is in conflict with dealing with the problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410153649	Sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410153650	Of course, I disagree with what the Minister is saying here. The Minister also says in his speech that Radicals do not really want to face up to the problems and that the Minister does not want to solve the problems by demolition alone. Does the Minister agree that the consequence of the current legislation is that you are going to demolish good, decent, ordinary housing because there are people in the area who are unemployed?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410153717	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410153718	I completely disagree with that. The consequence is not that you're going to tear down good homes alone because of this bill. If you choose to use the demolition tool, it is because it serves a higher purpose than just fulfilling this law, namely the purpose of opening up an area in order to bring in the surrounding society with roads and the like. That is the reason why in some places people choose to demolish. Where you have good accommodations that are in demand, you can just choose something else to sell, for example. And that's how you keep the good homes. You just get another form of housing that attracts another type of residents, so you get a more mixed housing mix and thus help solve the social problems that Mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen is talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410153807	Then it's mr. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410153810	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for both the speech and the answer to questions. I see the Minister as persistent and as capable and as responsive to questions, but then I also find that the Minister sometimes has to answer questions, for example. From Enhedslisten, Enhedslisten calls a show party and begins to speak ideology instead of answering the question. So I would really like to have some answers to the question of the action that now lies, which I believe is lacking in the parallel society package. The crime statistics are progressing, education is progressing, and we know that the brown girls are higher on average than the Danish white girls, so Danish brown girls are fucking cleverly sorry, I swear. We know that there are a lot of things that go well with integration, but yet you start on this victim blaming, so it's those who live out there who are to blame. However, we believe, and we have seen this through the developments in the areas, through the overall plans that we are talking about, that employment efforts, that club environments, that we have more police presence and all these factors are doing much more good than just tearing down the buildings. So I have not really heard anything in the parallel community plan address these issues and how we increase employment. I've only heard of punishment. Does the Minister have anything to offer in this regard?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410153927	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410153931	For some, things are going well, but for others, things are going badly. For these residential areas, there is little evidence that the negative spiral is being seriously broken. I see generations of young people who have grown up with parents who are not at work, nor are young people at work, nor were their grandparents working most of their adult lives. In those places, the problems are getting worse and things are not getting better, because there they are getting worse, and we need to stop doing that if we are not to end up like some of the terrible areas we know from, for example. Sweden, but as we also see signs in Denmark, for example. Vollsmose, Gellerupparken, before you started doing anything, and Mjølnerparken etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410154020	Then it's mr. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410154021	So what action is it besides tearing down buildings that are going to make these areas flourish? I do not agree that they are being maintained. I agree that there is a tiny group which is not developing, but I also believe that we have failed in the way we work with the groups. We have seen the citizen involvement that is going to take place elsewhere. Do we believe ourselves that if we just tear down the homes, it will change, or what else must be done to create the development and the results that the government believes it needs?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410154057	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410154058	When I talk about some politicians having a show-like approach to being in politics where they more perform a show, use a rhetoric etc. Instead of going down in substance, it is partly because, for example, they are. in such a proposal continues to talk about demolition, as Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen does. Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen knows that demolitions are not a requirement of the law. Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen knows very well that most of the development plans being made do not have demolition as the central element, but yet Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen, as if it's all about demolition. It's a show, it's rhetoric, it's unrulyness.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410154136	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. We are grateful to the Minister and then we start with the rapporteur's line. The first is from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Kaare Dybvad. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410154147	Thank you for that, President. Frankly, I do not know where to start with this resolution. The title is: Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the possibility of avoiding the demolition of general housing in hard ghetto areas. That doesn't make any sense. Of course, you can avoid demolishing homes if that's what you decide to do. The Radicals can then choose next week to make proposals to avoid forcing people to eat meat or to avoid people having to fly in their colonial gardens, or some other things that can already be avoided. And then we can stand down here every week discussing things that are not relevant. It says in the comments to the proposal that this law has the consequence that good and attractive housing is for demolition. It's factually wrong. In lots of the plans we have seen so far, from the City of Copenhagen, Vejle Municipality, Horsens Municipality and Holbæk Municipality, there is nothing that is about demolition, and yet they stand to be approved under this legislation. Then it also says that for example. Agervang in Holbæk must have torn apartments down, but this is not really the case. Agervang has been granted an exemption from this agreement. It has been mentioned in the daily press and the plan is that you will not tear down housing. You want to convert some homes into youth housing, you want to convert some homes and sell some homes, you want to build some new homes, but yet the Radicals are writing something in this proposal that is factually wrong. So it just doesn't fit with reality. In an earlier question, the rapporteur mentioned Finland Park. This is another example of a residential area where the derogation application has already been approved and where zero housing has to be demolished. Many new homes need to be built around, but is that what we are talking about here, since Finland's park is mentioned, or is it just because we have no control over which areas have submitted which applications and which areas have what plans? Actually, I think it's the last of it. I also regret the fact that this motion for a resolution has been tabled because it frightens the inhabitants who live in the general housing areas concerned. You scare the people as a party when you tour around with your party chairman and tell them that their homes must be demolished, as the radical party chairman has done. Despite the fact that there are already plans where it is quite clear that nothing should be torn down, you come out as a political party and tell people that their homes must now be demolished. Frankly, I do not think this is a very nice way of treating people who are nervous about what is going to happen and who have then come as a political party and breathe life into that discussion again. The next major question that I have for the Radicals, and which I hope they will answer, is whether this resolution means that we are stepping out of the agreement on the economy in this parallel society package that we are part of and that we have signed the agreement that we were interested in standing by the allocation of the Landsby Fund funds, which, among other things, is a very important one. Over the next two years. This bill will mean that there will be a two-year postponement, and it will therefore interfere with an agreement with which the Radicals are parties to the agreement, but which is now being tabled against a resolution. After all, I am not the super-experienced person in here, compared to what can be done and what cannot be done, but it seems to me that the Radicals are no longer included in that agreement. It would then be sensible to say so immediately instead of hiding behind this. Then we have to ask ourselves: what are the plans that can be postponed for two years? Can you imagine a climate plan where you do something real about climate problems, and then you say that you delay two years? Can one imagine abolishing the re-priority contribution to education, which is said to be postponed for two years? Can you imagine a major traffic plan, which you say you just postpone for two years? What are some other plans that, after adopting something, will you do so? When the Radicals are included in the economic agreement, they have recognized that there are some major problems here. What are the other policy areas where we want to go in and say: here we are ready to postpone it for two years, because the problems were not so great after all? Frankly, that doesn't make any sense, at least not to me. Then I must also say that I think it is a pity that we should spend our time in this Parliament on a proposal that is more designed to conduct an election campaign than it is designed to really bring about a change. It is a proposal that is toured and that comes around in the residential areas, but which has nothing to do with the agreements that you yourself have entered into; which has nothing to do with the substance of what we are discussing; and which comes, six months after the package has been adopted by a large majority in the Folketing. So now you take it up, and then you hope to get some publicity or some momentum among the residents that you've been around to scare about their homes having to be demolished. I think that's a bad way to do it. The Radicals stand in my optics and I grew up in a radical municipality for objectivity, for thoughtfulness and for basically believing that the most important thing is what is happening in the areas, not what is being said. I would just like to urge the Radicals to come back to that. In conclusion, I should like to welcome the Socialist People's Party and say that they do not agree with this resolution either.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410154649	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410154650	Well, I could understand that the rapporteur had little difficulty in finding out where to start. And when we see such a proposal here, which is based on the idea of trying to help the people who live in some residential areas in a way where they can get into employment, rather than making a quick plan for how there can be fewer of their homes, then I can quite easily see that you could start by trying to help the people who live there. So I don't think it's that hard to relate to this resolution. I know that there are some places in the country where people come to see that there are going to be demolished homes, so that is, in fact, part of the reality. It is, among other things. in Aarhus in Bispehaven and in Gellerup. And I know there are several housing associations that have applied for exemption, and some of the housing associations can then obtain an exemption for 60%. general family residences. This is among other things. in Sundparken in Horsens. And it can be said that they are being pressured to find a solution where they either have to sell or tear down. Does the rapporteur think that is fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410154802	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410154803	I just want to say that demolishing housing is a discussion that I think Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen is going to go with his own party companions, Keld Albrechtsen, who sits in the Brabrand Housing Association, which tears down many homes, his party colleagues in the Odense City Council, his party colleagues in the High Taastrup City Council and his party colleagues in many of the other city councils, who know that this is not an election campaign. It is a question of bringing about a change in some of these residential areas, so actions which are not primarily aimed at ensuring publicity, but which are primarily aimed at ensuring that a real change is made in these residential areas, where it is well known that clumming up social problems in themselves means that social problems are getting bigger. So, in reality, I would urge the rapporteur to talk to his own party colleagues. Then I would say: if you look at the plans that have been made in relation to how much is to be demolished, we are in a situation where the Enhedslisten said that 11 000 homes should be demolished in the autumn. And now that we're looking at what that number is, it's closer to 2,000 homes we're talking about. And it has all been decided with the support of the residents and with the support of the city council. So isn't Enhedslisten a little too sorry that you've scared people with the big numbers that don't fit?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410154914	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410154915	No, we're not. Because that's kind of the number that BL was out with when this process started, and where it ended up, there are some areas where you can condense and thus avoid demolition. There are then some places where you choose this privatisation, which we in the Enhedslist are very opposed to. Decentralising public housing is really far-fetched. And that's what's going on. I understand that this can be done in a bourgeois government, but that the Social Democracy and the SF support it, I find it hard to understand. Does the rapporteur think it is so cool to get into a situation where many ordinary homes are sold instead of tearing them down? Is this really a victory for Social Democracy?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410154951	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410154952	It is not a victory, nor is it going to happen in most places. Again, I just have to say, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen must tell himself what kind of plans we are dealing with in those places. In an area like Tingbjerg nothing is to be sold. In an area like Vollsmose, nothing is to be sold. Agervang, Finland's Park, in all the areas we talk about, you blow up a fear with people; you share news from the Dagbladet The Worker, who is a lie. Among Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen's fellow members of parliament are sharing news that people should be drawn out, which is a lie, and as the housing company has said is a lie. And yet you share it because you have an interest in creating a fear up to a choice. But you just have to remember that there is also a time after a choice. And it doesn't help to make people afraid of getting out of their homes.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410155037	Then it's mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410155039	Thank you. And thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Compared to this scaring of the residents, I think the greatest fear arises when you live in a residential area that has been put on the hard ghetto list. And the purpose of the bill here is to try to address the social problems in these residential areas rather than the physical environment. I can also say to the rapporteur that, of course, we stand by our involvement in this allocation of funds, because there are, of course, some of the hard housing areas where there is a need to change the physical environment. But right here we want to spend a few years on changing social conditions, for example, with regard to housing associations on the edge of the ghetto list. Finland Park, where 14 people have to be moved to employment to get off the list. Is that not an excellent idea, and is it not less frightening than maintaining that people should be on a ghetto list?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410155129	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410155130	Well, I stand by the fact that what the rapporteur's party chairman is doing is scaring people, and I think it is a pity that Mr. Morten Østergaard himself does not come down here and take this discussion because he has time to go to Agervang in Holbæk and tell them to tear down 200-300 homes, even if no one is to be torn down. But then Mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen pulled nineteen to the Christmas party, and then he has been asked to take this proposal, which is hard to defend, and it must be so. I want to make it quite clear that these are the social problems we are dealing with, and these are the ones we need to address. However, it should only be remembered that there are 14 more jobs in Finland's park, which, of course, is an area where nothing should be torn down, where nothing should be sold, and where the whole task is done here by building new homes. All you have to do is hold on to the fact that it is not just that 14 people get to work, and then everything is good. A local area where you have 40%. It is not a good area for people who are unemployed. I mean, it's not like it's about an exact limit. There are perhaps 600 to 700 people in Finland who are out of work, and we must ensure that they all get to work. We should not say that we now have 14 people in work, and then we stop there, as this logic says, saying that it is 14 people.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410155235	Sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410155236	No, I haven't pulled nineteen at the Christmas party. I'm happy to be here debating with mr. Kaare Dybvad. In Agervang in Holbæk it is 34 people, as far as we can see, who must be moved in employment. That's 54 fewer than the previous ghetto list. It is a very, very small number to be moved to the whole of Agervang, which is a large area and which Mr. Kaare Dybvad knows very well, can be moved away from this stigmatizing list. Does it not speak a very clear language about the need for action in a different place from what is contained in the current legislation? Doesn't this mean that we have to spend a few years targeting social problems before we start implementing the other development plans?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410155314	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410155315	It is in favour, as the questioner says, of ensuring that people get to work, that people get to education. That is what money has been set aside for in the parallel society package. I do not think the Radicals are in that part, but that is what has been set aside for schools, job efforts, etc. It also advocates that the municipalities in which the residential areas are located should make a much greater effort, as is done for example in the municipality of Holbæk or in the municipality of Slagelse or in many of the other municipalities which have these residential areas. Of course that is what this is all about. But it does not argue that we should put a stop button on for two years and say that the situation we have in Vollsmose, for example, that the situation we have in Tingbjerg, for example, where you have a very large concentration of social problems, we do not care for two years, and then we start taking it seriously in two years.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410155355	Then it's mr. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410155357	Thank you for that and thank the rapporteur for the speech and for the answers to questions. Now, although it is not certain, the alternative has never stood up and said that it is 11 000 people who have to move away, but we have spoken against the plan, not only because of the demolitions, but also because of the lack of effort, which has also been addressed by the former rapporteur. I recognise that funds have been set aside in the agreement to deal with this, but I do not think it is proportional to the negative publicity given to the areas too, by maintaining them as ghettos. It is therefore a double penalty if we maintain geographically what is happening, maintain that some people must be forced into crèches and insist that those who live on the other side of the borders do not have to take their children into these crèches, but may not. As far as I am concerned, it is counterproductive to the intention of mixed housing, mixed cities, if we do not push in another direction as well. So where does the rapporteur, if power changes, stand in relation to having a much greater focus on these social efforts, which we know works better than tearing down housing?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410155501	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410155502	It is clear, and I fully agree with that, that there are plenty of areas where very, very large and very, very effective changes have been made by using tools such as young people entering leisure jobs, ensuring that more people are given language training, also closer to where they live, and really taking care to tackle those who become unemployed much more quickly than has been done in the past. That is what has happened, for example. What used to be called the Ishøjplan, that is what has happened in the Acacia Park in Valby, and that is what has happened in several other places. Let me not mention all of them. But we have also come to a place, I think, in relation to some areas it could, for example. be Vollsmose, as I also know the alternative is very positive about bringing about a change in where we cannot reach the goal only of those things. However, I agree that we must then make use of the experience we have, for example. in Mjølnerparken, where you are very good at getting young 16-17-year-olds into Føtex to work and make sure that they get some knowledge directly of the working life that most Danes are part of. We must then be much better able to put this kind of experience into the system and extend it to the other areas too, so that we can make an effective effort. I believe a hundred per cent in housing social work, but I also believe that it is above all the municipalities that should be responsible for it, because they are the ones who know the situation best where they are.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410155615	Then it's mr. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410155616	I agree with that, and that is also why we have proposed that there should be a knowledge centre across the municipalities that will help spread the good experiences. But what is the aim of the entire parallel society package, which is based on punishment to a much greater extent than it is based on making good social efforts? I do not see that it carries on the socialist legacy. I know the talk about having done this before, but what are we going to do when we know the statistics and when we know that things are going better? It's better on all fronts, and then there's a tiny group that doesn't work out better. Why, then, continue to contribute to this stigmatization of the areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410155656	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410155657	I see in every area, for example. Agervang in Holbæk, both a part that is about having a very strong community, many good activities, getting many young people in education, making sure that a lot of good things happen, but at the same time also another side: that you experience mass battles, shootings, experience a lot outside the labour market, experience hash clubs, gang rooms inside the apartments, and I think it is sometimes as if in the bourgeois camp you do not want to recognise the good things going on in the community house, and that you from Mr. Agervang in Holbæk do not want to see the good things going on in the community house. Roger Courage Matthisen and several others will not recognise the negative side, which is the shootings, the hash clubs, the great unemployment. And for social democracy it is important to say that both of these things exist and we must be able to recognise both parts of life in such a residential area.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410155738	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Merete Dea Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410155746	Thank you. The challenges we see around these ghetto areas have not recently arisen, as one can get the impression when one hears the speeches today. It is a development that has long been under way, and one of the problems is that one shuts oneself down and does not become part of the rest of society. In short, a parallel society is being created. Government and municipalities and housing companies have already tried to solve these problems to varying degrees over time. Some have managed to reverse developments, but not all of them. We must recognise that the hardest areas, those we call hard ghettos, cannot just get off the list. They can come out of the definition hard ghetto, but they will then still be on the ghetto list, and if they come out of the ghetto list, they will still be on the exposed list. So there is a long way from a hard ghetto and to being a normalised residential area with different people, with different backgrounds, and where children can grow up with the possibility of having different role models in which they can reflect themselves. This is the goal of the Danish People's Party. We cannot accept parallel societies in Denmark, and could solve the problem with a fingertips, which, like those being proposed here, would probably have been done several years ago. After all, the proposers recognise that demolition is one of several tools when you read the text, for it is the tools in which municipalities and housing organisations must strike a balance with the aim of creating well-functioning neighbourhoods that can become part of the rest of society and where children can grow up in a safe and Danish environment. Against this background, it is hardly surprising that we cannot vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410155924	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Helveg Petersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410155928	Thank you. The rapporteur suggests that the Radical Left, as the author of the motion for a resolution, should think that the problems can be solved by fingertips. What we are proposing is a social effort towards the people who live in these residential areas, so that they can increase employment and get them from a list drawn up on the basis of relatively arbitrary criteria. Isn't it a better idea to use the social tools in the first place before throwing yourself at other instruments?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410160001	But I simply do not know what the proposers are thinking of in relation to what has been done so far. In other words, this is not something that has suddenly arisen; it is becoming a rather old problem for some areas, and it must be assumed that those areas have worked so much with the tools that the proposers mention here. So, no, there has to be a point where it is said that we cannot now accept it anymore, and now we have to make some other efforts for those areas that have not managed to achieve objectives, to ensure that we get to the end of all areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410160025	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410160027	We can see that several of the ghetto criteria are based on old numbers. For example: there are figures in the ghetto list from 1 December 2018 from the beginning of 2016, i.e. 33 months old. At the same time, we can see that in some places 14 people have to be moved into employment in order to be able to take an entire residential area out of the hard list. Doesn't it seem like it's worth spending some time getting proper numbers and making the bets work all the way down?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410160053	It's not all the numbers you can take so absolutely. Well, we're gonna take the newest available numbers you can get your hands on at all. There's no real old number behind this. The figures available are the figures that we have and the figures that can be pulled out of the systems. So no, I think we're actually doing this on a very, very enlightened basis. Now I just got away from what the second question was. I'm sorry, it's not to drag it out.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410160120	You'll have to take it bilaterally. The next question is Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410160126	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I find it a little condescending that what the parties down here want, they think they can do with a fingertips, because we know that is not the case. Well, it takes decades to change these areas, and we recognise that the question is just what tools, what tools we use. There are young Danes with minority background who are changing this on a generation. Even though they are massively exposed to stigmatisation and to being talked down, they change these social structures of a generation and get into education and get into work. And I think it's too bad they're being counted down in these generalizing terms. So my question is: What has the Danish People's Party put forward of good social tools, processes and structures to change conditions, not only to talk about people going out or having to be demolished? Can the rapporteur just give me some suggestions on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410160226	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410160228	No, not immediately. I mean, I haven't sat at the table for the decades that have led to where we are now. Now we know that for decades we have been trying to run various initiatives around these very vulnerable residential areas, ghetto areas, or whatever you choose to call them. All the measures that have been taken have helped some. After all, there are many areas that have managed to get out of this which have taken the tools to heart, and there are other areas where it just never really succeeds. We just have to recognise that other tools are needed. What has been done in concrete terms over time and what has just stood DF as the sender on, frankly, I am not going to make myself smart here. But I can be wise that I have helped to create the solution that I believe will change it for the future, so that we really get rid of these parallel societies.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410160315	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410160317	Thank you. But what does the rapporteur want to do for the future if the rapporteur cannot answer what has happened backwards? It is not just the minority dancers who are being hit here. It is also Grethe who sees himself being forced away from her grandchildren because her residential area falls for these demands. That is also the point of this proposal; it is, of course, that it is not just one group but many different groups that are affected. It may be that she has a low income, and it may be that she has a low level of education because she has worked as a cleaning assistant all her life, but she is forced away from her grandchildren. So what action does DF have for the future in addition to demolitions to strengthen the social balance in these areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410160410	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410160413	There are plenty of options other than demolition, so I simply do not see the same scare picture as you are doing here about people being forced from their homes. This is one of the extreme consequences that I should not immediately be aware that some have chosen to use. Most people build themselves out of these problems or transform what you call the different homes, and turn them into senior homes and other things. I don't see the scare picture you want to set up at all. And there are plenty of moves around in terms of getting people into work, among other things. through the ceiling on cash benefits and other things that motivate people to get to work. It has also been shown to have a positive effect. The reduction of integration benefit has also been shown to have a positive effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410160452	Thank you very much to Mrs Merete Dea Larsen. There are no more brief comments. Then I am particularly pleased to be able to welcome a Jutland politician, Mr. Carsten Kissmeyer from the Left, Denmark's Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410160505	Thank you very much for the floor. With this motion for a resolution, the Radical Left wants to exempt hard ghetto areas from drawing up a development plan if within two years the areas can get off the ghetto list by putting unemployed people into jobs or training. According to the proposers, we can thus prevent good and healthy housing from being demolished. Having said that, my approach and our approach to this is that we have to say that demolition is the final tool of the tools in the toolbox. And I guess we're gonna have to deal with what's been going on a little bit. Indeed, there has been a great deal of housing social work and labour market and social efforts in these areas, and there has been work on it for decades. And it has actually had no effect in relation to the specific areas on the hard ghetto list. That is why we believe that this proposal will simply bring us to a situation in which we are allowing the status quo to continue. I have been in the lucky position that some of the mayors have called me and I have met with some of them. I've been out in some of the residential areas and met with the boards. And everywhere, I actually find you take this very well. I have been out in an area where there was not a great deal of crime, but where the mayor in the specific area says: that does not change the fact that we have 70%. by the residents of this housing association who are unemployed. This is, of course, a huge problem for the municipality, because it is a huge cost and it is a social burden for the children who are there. That is why, of course, it is important that we do away with it in these areas. We therefore call for the broad palette of tools to be used, so that with the overall plan, where the municipality and the housing companies are jointly to have this overall plan worked out, it goes positively and actively into it. And what I actually experience is that you do. We just heard, sir. Kaare Dybvad tells about quite specifically how things have gone about in different housing companies. I think what we see works. And then, in certain situations, we have had an opportunity to grant exemptions, and we have done so. What we see in this way is that what we have done so far has had little effect. We think we should stick to this ambitious plan against parallel societies, which fortunately have very broad support in the Folketing. In these words, the Left certainly cannot support the motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410160806	You're welcome. There are some brief comments. The first one's from sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410160812	There are some problems of demarcation in the current legislation. We can see that in Munkebo in Kolding it is 25 people who have to be moved into employment or training before the area comes off the hard ghetto list, if you notice the old numbers. There are some more recent figures that say that it is probably more like 15 people involved. This means that these areas that live with the stigmatisation and there are, in fact, many people who live with the anxiety that several people have been talking about will be able to be helped if we make an effort over the next few years to deal with the problems we agree on: unemployment, under-training and other issues. Why not, then, do so before you approach these more far-reaching proposals? That is my simple question. Are we satisfied with the demarcation? Are there not some areas too close to the borders for it to be fair to place the emphasis on the areas we are doing?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410160900	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410160902	That is not my view. In fact, it is my view that the fact that we have set some limits makes us have a specific tool to work with, and in that light I do not really think that this is a problem, because it is not the case that the problem is gone, even if one comes below the border. There will still be a massive challenge; even if there were five smaller ones, there is still a massive challenge. We have just said that here we set the limit, and when we have set the limit there, we can always say that there are always some who are on the line, but the essence is that the problem would not be gone. Even if there were six who came to work, there would still be a challenge. We are of the opinion that this is a good model and we want to continue with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410160943	Then it's the questioner, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410160948	Now the rapporteur mentioned that demolition is the last option, and I am glad to hear that. Apparently, there is an annual report that outlines how many people are believed to live in a parallel society. And there it has been found that 76,000 people live in Denmark in a parallel society. You go in and say that if there is one in a family that is a criminal, the whole family is in a parallel society, and you go in and say that when you meet two out of eight criteria, you can be included in the statistics. If you have a family living in a residential area where there are more than 25%. with a non-western background, and then you have a small child who does not come to day care from the 12th month, but if it comes a little later, you suddenly help to meet some criteria for a parallel society. Is the rapporteur sure that the criteria laid down for parallel societies are a good basis for legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410161053	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410161055	Well, it's actually my opinion that we've hit very well. Having had a dialogue with various parties where it is, it is my view that we have hit very well. I would like to point out that in these areas, too, people who feel insecure about being in this area live. I had the pleasure of being in P1 Orientation not long ago with the barber from Vollsmose, where the discussion thus failed because the barber from Vollsmose, who is therefore an immigrant and operates a barber shop, was in fact of the opinion that of course it would be very, very good if Vollsmose became a more mixed residential area, where people were at work and where you thrived and were part of the Danish society. So I actually believe that this too has very much the support of the residents. It may not be the ones you hear the most from, but I actually think that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410161153	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410161155	I've met several residents, among others. Some pensioners out on Sjælør Boulevard, and they do not think it is fair that the limits set are then moved suddenly. This is what the government has done in assessing areas, i.e. whether it is something that is a particularly criminally affected area, where the dividing line in statistics before was 2.7, and then you set the limit down to 2.2, and then suddenly there may be some areas that will then be included in the statistics because the government has moved the borders. Does the rapporteur think that it is right for housing to be dealt with in this way, given that the consequences can be so great?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410161235	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410161237	I was visiting a residential area in Horsens, and there was the discussion about crime, and it was very, very low, but as the mayor said to me: what is our problem is that 70%. of residents are on transfer income. I don't think that's good either. So that's the sum of criteria that kind of play a role in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410161302	Thank you, sir. Carsten Kissmeyer. There are no brief comments. We shall move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten (The Red Greens).
ParlaMint-DK_20190410161324	It's nice that you as a jyde are welcome over here. I think it is perfectly understandable that the Radicals should come up with a motion for a resolution which can adjust to a law which is relatively new. This has been a bit of a problem in the debate. I think it is perfectly reasonable for parties in the Folketing to try to change the laws that they do not like. This resolution is based on the idea that, in order to prevent the destruction of general housing, instead of giving housing areas two years to come up with a situation where they would then officially be outside the statistics that would make them appear on the hard ghetto list. We have a great deal of sympathy for this resolution and we would like to support it. When you look at what kind of housing social interventions have been made over the years in Denmark, you have to say that the housing social interventions provide inspiration for constantly making even better plans. The fact that we have arrived at the means of providing young people with a leisure job, helping them to get a leisure job, is, in fact, something that can help to ensure that young people go the good way towards education and work and get a good life rather than helping them. So there's always such an interaction where housing associations look at what actually has an effect, and I don't think it has a positive effect that you tear housing down into these areas. In the debate, it has been up to us not to end up in a situation where as many homes as could be demolished as possible, but we end up in a situation where people feel compelled to sell some ordinary housing instead. Thus, when you are written up for a general dwelling, it is to obtain a dwelling, and when you live in a general dwelling and want to live there, it is, in fact, negative if you can get into the situation where the dwelling you live in could risk being sold or being demolished. So we are in legislation here, which creates an insecurity in many housing associations, and there will be an insecurity up to the time when you make the annual ghetto list for what if you come on these lists? What's gonna happen in these cities where there's some specific housing associations that people without a job can't move into? Yeah, well, it's like they're moving into another housing association. And then that housing association can come up with these lists and end up having to make a settlement plan... a development plan, as some call it. So the legislation that has been adopted is, in fact, an attack on the general sector as a whole. I think that instead the focus should have been on helping the people who need help, that is, the people who also live in the general sector. I think it is deeply worrying that there may be some problems that go under the radar because you now have these ghettoists that apply to residential areas with over 1,000 inhabitants. In Aarhus Municipality there is an awareness of general residential areas down to 500 residents, and where you sort of keep an eye on how many children in those areas need support. It is actually deeply worrying that something is going under the radar, although the municipality is very aware that it must also help residents in residential areas with less than 1,000 residents. I think that the legislative proposal that was adopted earlier has given us a completely wrong focus. I think the focus should instead be on helping those people who need help. There, I think, the proposal by the Radicals to park the bulldozer a little and try to start from the fact that some people need to be helped is a good starting point. There are several rapporteurs who have visited some of these housing associations, and it is very good if there has been a greater awareness and knowledge of the residential areas where there are 1 million Danes. But I can't help thinking about it if you take an area like Sundparken in Horsens, which I've visited, where there's 54 percent. It is not just a question of the social dimension, it is a question of the social dimension, it is a question of the social dimension, it is a question of the social dimension, it is a question of the social dimension, it is a question of the social dimension and it is a question of the social dimension. The municipality has driven some mobile employment services into the area and has started, but they are just in the situation that whatever they do, they have a demand that they make that development plan. A derogation has been sought, and it will end up with fewer general family homes in that place, with the legislation that exists. I do not think that is a good solution, and that is why the Enhedslisten supports the intentions of the Radical resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410161828	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kaare Dybvad.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410161831	The rapporteur again makes two assertions to which I think we have to ask. And he didn't answer it very well when I asked it myself when I was up there before. Firstly, what is the rapporteur's point of view when he says that there will be fewer general housing in this plan? Is the rapporteur aware that, for example: Bo-Vita, who is planning to sell homes, is going to build more homes for that money, and that's an opportunity in this legislation? Is the rapporteur aware of this? Secondly, does the rapporteur feel no regret or shame at all that for a long time he was touring with the message that 11 000 homes had to be demolished? Soren Egge Rasmussen and Mrs. Pernille Skipper and it turns out it's nowhere near it at all? And you took a party source's statement, and then you used it as truth and were told that it wasn't right, and yet you kept touring with it. Do you not resent the fact that you have been so wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410161935	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410161936	Well, then, when the debate leads to a legislative proposal, information about what the overall consequences may be of a legislative proposal, and when it comes from BL, then we listen very strongly to it. Now we end up in a situation where there are some housing associations that feel compelled to sell some homes, and we think that is really bad too. In other words, this is a really bad solution, and I understand if it is the case that the Minister for Housing thinks it is a really good solution to privatise general housing, but it is, in fact, so much against what should apply in a general housing association. It is therefore important to preserve the community, to preserve the homes you have and to develop your area. That is what should be the focus of attention. If there are then some housing associations that come up with some model where you want to build more housing, it is up to the municipality whether you want to allow it. There is no automatic in that. There may also be municipalities where they say: Well, now we will have fewer general family homes, we will manage that, and the market will have to deal with it. And there may also be some housing for sale, which one might then think could be traded instead. So you can't just say that because there's been this bill, something new is being built in general. It is thus up to the individual municipality what strategies are put in place. And it is very possible that in Aarhus you have some form of wording that when you tear something down, you have to build something new. So what? Well, we're gonna be missing these family homes.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410162105	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410162106	I almost have to ask the rapporteur to be specific, because it is a bit above water. I mentioned Mjølnerparken and Bo-Vita. After all, it is in a municipality where Enhedslisten is in the position of the mayor of technology and the environment. Is the rapporteur really saying that the mayor of technology and the environment in Copenhagen, who is the Enhedslisten's party member, is going to say no to the idea that they can build new general housing for the money they get, that they can build twice as many general housing as they sell? That surprises me a lot, I'd say. I would say that for Horsens, where you have a Social Democratic mayor, that is what is planned. Anywhere I've heard you've sold, that's what's planned. But it is clear that if you want to create insecurity and if you want to hover over the waters and try to give the impression that a lot of housing is now being privatised, it is a very easy method. But if you want to be specific, let me ask the rapporteur whether it is Enhedslisten's policy in Copenhagen with their mayor of technology and the environment that you will not allow to build new housing for the money you get into Bo-Vita to sell part of the Mjølner Park.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410162159	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410162200	We are in favour of the construction of much more general housing, and we think that it is good for models to be found in Copenhagen to build more general housing. We are also just at the same time in the situation that some of the common houses are disappearing, which has been at the cheap end. They are going to be missing around, and that is the big problem in it. Another part of it is that insecurity you can get into. In fact, there are people who want to stay in the residential area that they have lived for many years, where they know neighbors and where they have a community. And that is something we think is worth defending, and we want to defend it, and we want to listen to the local democracy and let it unfold fully. If then there are municipalities that end up finding good solutions, we think it is really fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410162245	Thank you, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. There are no more brief comments. Welcome, sir. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410162256	From the heart, thank you. I have to say that, like many of the rapporteurs, I am rather sorry about this motion for a resolution. It is, of course, as if you are talking into a logic which is that as long as we can move 14-16-18 into employment, we have solved the problem. Then you've put your eyes in front of the blind eye. It has also been said very well by many rapporteurs from both the Social Democrats and the Left. I heard the rapporteur from the Left say that this is the same as the status quo, and that is exactly what we are going to do. Now it has been the status quo for very, very many years. It was also said that this actually turns out to work. Only last night I was at the City Council in Slagelse, where we have two of the hard ghetto areas, and I was presented with the development plans that are intended to be submitted. And there I have to say to Enhedslisten in order to stay in their terminology that there is no reason to talk about parking bulldozers it was said this way because no bulldozers have been purchased. It's very marginal what you're going to tear down. And that's how I think it was the minister who was talking about having to have some openings somewhere, because you need to open these devices up, you might need to tear something down, but you've done that already. So this ghost you're telling us that we're tearing down at all costs is an incredibly bad thing for the general debate. Because I'm sure that this thing about us now saying "must' and not "should' means that the bag is being shaken. You actually go very enthusiastic into it to find some solutions that is my experience, and that's from 2 out of the 16 areas that you certainly hadn't really started if no one had lifted their finger from in here. So I'm very confident, and at the same time, as I have said a few times, I'm sorry that we have to kiss people with this proposal that hits far, far past the dial, as I see it. So, of course, we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410162522	Thank you, sir. Villum Christensen, and warm welcome to Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410162529	The alternative has many times set out our position on the parallel society package. And I would recommend that those watching here go in and look at the treatment of L 38 last year, both first and third treatment. And then I'm gonna talk about what we think might be different. We have put forward two political proposals: 'Cities for all' and 'An alternative to gang life'. And we have done so because it is precisely the case that the stigmatisation of these areas is based on citizens with a minority background, and because the rhetoric of these communities, in all, for far too long, has shrouded these communities and given them a negative sign. It is stigmatizing, it is misleading, and it helps to maintain prejudices and beliefs. Recently there was a study of a sociologist about Tingbjerg, the Tingbjerg study, where we have just researched into the lack of expectations in our society when we repeatedly stigmatise from the Parliament's platform and talk down about the cohesion which would otherwise be the great driving force for the development of a Denmark in balance. The Tingbjerg study shows that not only do teachers have poor expectations of the students in Tingbjerg, the police also have ten times as high negative expectations than what is factually correct based on the statistics available from the National Police. And that is really, really a pity, and I think it is quite clear that the political debate and the public debate are helping to increase this lack of expectations. So we'd like to end that. We'd like to expand the Tingbjerg study. We would also like to ensure that flexible rentals are extended, which means that those who are already associated with these areas and who have broken the pattern and have entered work and have entered training will actually have priority to stay in the area. One of the best things we know is that there are role models present, so we want to make sure these role models stay in the area. We will also restore many local police stations. We also know that this has a very good preventive effect, while at the same time providing mentoring aid to criminals. We want to ensure that there is a firm track to education and employment for risk groups, especially those in the border country in relation to the gang environment. We also know that from abroad and here at home works. And then we want to ensure that all actors lift social responsibility. That applies to us, too. We have a responsibility not to stigmatise in the debate, but that also applies to all other players and to the neighbourhood, such as us. have seen it in the Gellerup Park, where they have demolished 331 apartments, but not a single one has been forced away. Talks have been held with all the residents of the area and have been agreed. And either they have been moved to another area, or they have been allocated to another apartment in the same area. Mr Kaare Dybvad also referred to the good work done by the Gellerup Park. Then we would like to raise the quality of the day institutions. Instead of forcing people to have their children in a daycare institution, we will raise quality and invest massively, including in primary school. We want better clubs and good bedrooms. We want to ensure that there is a free pass with leisure activities for poor children and adults and, in general, more sport and culture, because we know that association, socialisation and relations with our country are taking place there. And this is not just for citizens with minority backgrounds. This also applies to the exposed white Danes, who are so much under pressure during this stigmatizing rhetoric. We would also like to strengthen civil society and create resident academies. We want to provide more pocket money projects and jobs and job guidance. Then I'd like to risk my own position. I myself was born and raised in Gellerupparken, now I stand here in the platform of the Danish Parliament and want more cohesion and want us to take advantage of the public education on which we have built our country, to a much greater extent, instead of talking down and instead of working against the cohesion force. And I see that all too often from in here. So I recognise some of the positive elements of the parallel society package, but in general I think it helps to stigmatise and talk it down, and I do not think that demolitions and rhetoric about it have been the right way to go. Those were the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410163037	Thank you, sir. Roger Courage Matthisen. There are no brief comments. I should therefore like to welcome Mr. Anders Johansson of the Conservative People's Party. The rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution is given the floor at the end of the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410163100	Thank you for the floor. As you know, we are dealing with a motion for a resolution tabled by the Radical Left. The aim is to exempt the hard ghetto areas from drawing up an overall plan if they can come out of the ghetto list within two years from avoiding the demolition of general housing in the hard ghettos, as the motion for a resolution suggests. In the Conservative People's Party, we are in the agreement to end ghettos in Denmark by 2030. That is why we also support the implementation of the overall plans, as we have agreed. There has been a lot of talk about the fact that now all ghettos have to be demolished and that this is the only solution that has been given, but it is just not an image I recognize; it is not a picture of reality. The ghetto plan provides a wide range of tools that can be used to create new residential areas with a more mixed housing mix. One of the tools is demolition, but there are certainly many others. For example: you can re-mark housing for older or youth housing, or you can build new or sell all of it with the aim of creating better residential areas that are more modern and more coherent with the surrounding urban area, and residential areas with a more mixed housing mix, where more resourceful people are attracted. And you're actually doing a good job of making these whole plans. By giving the areas two more years to continue the effort which has been spent on the past few decades, I believe that we are in danger of putting the problems off for another two years. That is why, of course, we cannot support it and, for these reasons, we cannot support the motion for a resolution either.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410163300	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Helveg Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410163303	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. If we now see that figures have been used in the provision of this 33-month-old ghetto list and that reality can move, and that we risk having done this stigmatization of some of the hard ghetto areas on the wrong basis, does it not give us reason to consider whether we should not allow time to speak and try to get a better basis and, by the way, continue our efforts and if we now also know that it is very small populations that need to be moved in order to get areas off this stigmatizing list?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410163335	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410163337	Some of these efforts mentioned by the questioner are, after all, the sort of efforts that have been tried on for decades. Of course, we have to base our plans on the most up-to-date figures, but again, as several other rapporteurs have said earlier, I have to say that it is not, of course, here that there are ten more people who come into work who suddenly radically change whether an area is exposed or not. In other words, what we want now is also, for the sake of future generations, once and for all, to get rid of these ghetto areas, and that requires some physical change. There are also some other things in the package here that will ensure that the next generation will have better opportunities than the previous one. I think that is the most important objective in the whole agreement, in the whole plan that we have put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410163431	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410163433	Ten more people don't change anything, they say. In other words, the criteria that lie above it are not really taken very seriously. The important thing here is that there's going to be this bet where you're going to decrease your stake. It is just a concern for me that you do not take your own criteria seriously. We have also heard earlier in the debate how the criteria for what is a ghetto have moved along the way. Would it not be reasonable to take its criteria seriously and to try to deal only with the areas at the very hard end in these areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410163506	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410163507	But that is also what you do, in other words, trying to put the very hardest end first. That is where you have been on the list for several years and fulfil most of the criteria. And then it may be that by getting 14 more people into work, or how many it was, the rapporteur said earlier, you can move in relation to one of the elements, but that does not change the fact that you have been on the list for several years and fulfil more than one of the five criteria. In other words, one of the criteria may be unemployment, but it may also be other things: levels of education, income levels, high levels of crime, that there are many people with a non-western background in the area, etc. etc., that is, everything that makes you have a very divided area that is not similar to the surrounding society. And that's what we have to do by creating a more mixed housing mix.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410163559	Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410163601	Historically, the general housing sector has lifted incredibly many citizens. It is the job of the general housing sector primarily to provide good housing for those who cannot afford to own themselves. Therefore, the composition of the resident has the structure and the development it has. Unfortunately, this also applies to the fact that when people get better, that is. They get training, they get work, they get better off financially, then they move away from the area too because of the stigmatizing rhetoric there is. Who wants to live there? The rapporteur himself is from Funen. The chief of police from Funen said: What mother says to her children at the dinner table: Tomorrow, kids, do we move into a ghetto? How does the rapporteur justify the continued use of stigmatizing words, the language, these areas, if you really want them to be areas that flourish and develop?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410163706	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410163708	To start with, as the questioner refers to, I also recognise that the general housing areas are undertaking an important task. But there are also just some areas where we have to say that there are some challenges that we need to use more robust means to resolve. When you're on these lists and you've been doing it for years and there may be different reasons why you are, it's because there are some problems. And you can try to solve it by doing this housing social work, which you have been trying to do for decades. It has proved unable to achieve at least the last areas here entirely. So we say now: Now we have to make some overall plans where, both with physical changes and also with other measures, we get rid of this, so that once and for all we create some more modern and better residential areas. I think that is in the interests of all of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410163806	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410163807	I don't know how to interpret that with modern and better residential areas. These residential areas have been modernised many times. According to the rapporteur and the rapporteur's experience, how long does it take to change a residential area so that the social battle side will improve and the area will be more well functioning compared to other mixed residential areas in the country? How long will it take in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410163830	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410163832	When I say modern residential areas, it is because some of the areas on the list here are of course areas that are built in a way that would not be built on today, where they are delimited from the surrounding community and, therefore, also close themselves and isolate themselves from the surrounding urban community. That is why we say: Well there is also a need for some physical changes. If we are to create a more mixed housing mix and also ensure that there are more resourceful people moving to the areas, then we need to create a better overall picture. And that's why there's a need for physical change. It is, of course, one of the things that must help to bring about that change. How many years is it gonna take? It may be difficult to set a date, but it is certainly some steps that we need to take in order to get started.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410163918	Thank you, sir. Anders Johansson. There are no more brief comments. And now we have reached the rapporteur for the proposers, Mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen from the Radical Left. Welcome to the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410163938	Thank you very much for your wonderful welcome. And thank you for the debate so far. We therefore call on the Danish Parliament to make the necessary legislative changes and administrative measures to enable municipalities with housing areas on the list of so-called hard ghetto areas to replace the necessary development plan, which focuses on reducing the number of general housing, with an alternative plan • a plan that can get the area completely off the ghetto list within two years by focusing on bringing unemployed people into jobs or in education. Housing areas which draw up such an alternative development plan must have 2 years to meet the targets on the basis of current and updated figures. If, after two years, the area has succeeded in releasing itself from the ghetto list, the area shall be exempted from the requirements to demolish or reduce the proportion of general family dwellings. The adopted Parallel Society Package and this is the adoption of Bill No L 38 in November 2018 has meant that a large number of residential areas have been caught on the ghetto list of outdated statistical statements. This has meant that residential areas that have been listed in 2018 have had no real chance of changing the situation until they now meet with demands to reduce the proportion of general family housing. And this again has the consequence that good and attractive housing can be used for demolition and that the municipalities' incentive to take action with targeted employment and training efforts etc. against those who are outside the labour market is being reduced. The derogations that exist after the November 2018 legislative amendment will only be available to few ghetto areas and will not remedy the consequences for the vast majority of the hard ghetto areas. Moreover, the possibility of exemption does not guarantee that it can be avoided even if it is granted a derogation. Several municipalities have intensified job efforts in their vulnerable residential areas, but under the current rules the municipalities cannot achieve the same gains in the so-called hard ghetto areas, because parts of the homes are to be demolished, regardless of the efforts of the municipality and the general housing company, according to the law on general housing. According to the legislation, housing must be demolished or transformed, whether the effort is successful for most of the hard ghettos. It's socio-economicly expensive. It is a waste of money when areas are forced to dismantle hundreds of homes instead of helping 20 or 50 people to work, for example. In Munkebo in Kolding 25 people will be in employment or training on the basis of ghettolist 2018 before the area will smoke off the list. And the 25 is an old number... as far as we know, the latest number is 15 people. The Finland Park in Vejle has to move 14 people in employment to get off the list, and in Agervang in Holbæk 34 people are going to work. Agervang currently meets three out of five criteria and will therefore come out of the ghetto list if these 34 people get to work and it is in itself a fall from 54 people in the previous ghetto list, but not enough. Because of 34 people, the proportion of general housing has to be reduced from 100 per cent. 40 per cent. in Agervang. Hard ghetto areas, where it is possible to change the composition of the resident through job efforts, training efforts and other actions, must therefore be able to radically replace the development plan with a realistic plan in order to be able to get off the so-called ghetto list. And if they succeed within two years, as a result of this resolution, they should not be affected by the consequences of the Parallel Society Package. Although an area is labeled as a ghetto, many of the areas are attractive. There are 58,000 people on the waiting list to get accommodation in one of the areas on the list of hard ghetto areas. Most areas today have 100 per cent. general family housing, which means that the proportion must be reduced by 60 percentage points. It could be through demolition; an alternative is to sell the homes to private people or build new ones, but there is probably only one market for that in the large cities, for example. around Mjølnerparken in Copenhagen. Some areas have the possibility of exemption, but this does not solve the challenge of unemployment and crime. The data underlying the ghetto list are in several cases more than two years old, and this proposal ensures that it is the current development rather than the historical one that determines whether the area is on this list. Several of the ghetto criteria are based on old numbers. For example, from 1 December 2018 figures are used in the ghetto list from the beginning of 2016, i.e. 33 months old. This makes it difficult for the areas to get off the list, as actual developments are not reflected in the historical figures. And that is why this motion for a resolution also involves the use of updated figures, which are calculated from the latest year rather than an average of years, so that actual developments are reflected. There are some areas that are probably not going to meet the criteria, despite a municipal effort. This resolution is therefore aimed at those areas which have a chance of getting off the ghetto list. With this resolution, society will be able to save, I think, a lot of money by not having to tear down and build up somewhere else. At the same time, we get the necessary job effort going so that people get a job rather than a moving car. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410164438	You're welcome, sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410164443	Thank you for that and thank the rapporteur and the Radical Left for tabling the motion for a resolution. We support it; I do not know if I was able to say so in my rapporteur's speech. I'm kind of curious about the criteria. I fully agree that we need updated figures. In relation to ethnicity as a parameter to measure, I want to hear where Radical Left is standing here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410164514	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410164515	Well, the Radical Left isn't interested in using ethnicity as the only parameter. I think that is wrong. There I can much more accept the social parameters that lie if we were to remove parameters but not ethnicity.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410164532	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410164534	I'm sorry, I didn't hear the last of it. Does the Radical Left wish to remove ethnicity from the parameters or just not to place too much emphasis on it?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410164544	So, in the case of the Radical Left, it is a wrong parameter to use, that is to say to look only at ethnicity. And when, in the legislation that now applies and that we did not support, there is as much emphasis on ethnicity as there is, that is something we are opposed to.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410164607	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kaare Dybvad. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410164610	I simply have to ask the last question. The rapporteur says that you do not want ethnicity as a criterion, but the rapporteur himself was a minister in the government that adopted the ghetto criteria or postponed the housing criteria in 2014, as it was said at the time when one of the criteria was ethnicity. So are you radical in favour or against using ethnicity as a criterion in connection with these lists?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410164645	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410164647	Radical Left will be against using ethnicity as the only criterion.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410164656	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410164657	Well, okay, but that's not the only criterion here. So is it to be used as one in five criteria now, just as it did when we had an SR government where it was agreed that it was used as one in five criteria? Or where is the difference? I find that very difficult to understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410164719	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410164721	As I remember the current legislation, you will be able to find yourself in a situation where ethnicity alone ultimately determines whether one of these residential areas ends up on a hard ghetto list. There could be a situation where there are two similar residential areas with only ethnicity in difference, and that makes one residential area end up on the list. I'll always be against that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410164744	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen. There are no more brief comments. And I regret to the questioner that I did not keep eye contact with him. There are many messages that go across the chair during a reading. Is there anyone else who would like to speak on this point? There is not, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Transport, Building and Housing. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410164750	Before we move on to the final point, I would like to send a special greeting to our Greenlandic guests who are here today to see how it works down here in the southern part of the Parliament of the Kingdom.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410164843	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410164911	Thank you. I would also like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution. The motion for a resolution instructs the government to convene parties of the Folketing to negotiate with a view to ensuring legislation and initiatives to combat social dumping in the bus industry and to ensure free and fair competition in the bus market. Fixed and fair conditions in the road transport sector are a subject on which the government is very concerned and on which the government has worked intensively to find good solutions. I therefore welcome the resolution as it supports this work. The government is therefore in agreement with the motion for a resolution. I am fundamentally convinced that the free movement of services and labour in the European Union is of great benefit to Denmark and to the Danish economy. However, reality has shown that there are unintended consequences that are not reasonable. As the road transport sector is probably the most cross-border and mobile sector, it is here too that we are facing the greatest challenges and the greatest pressure on, among others. our labour market. The government is in favour of a principle of equal pay for the same work done in the same place. This ensures better conditions and more equal competition. Therefore, there is no fair competition when drivers almost permanently work in Denmark under foreign conditions. I would also like to make it clear that it is unacceptable for foreign coachmen to cheat on VAT and not register for foreign service providers. Following the so-called Padborg case, the government has worked seriously to find solutions and measures to ensure orderly conditions and fair competition in road transport and the Danish labour market. Today I would like to present Parliament with the results of the work and initiatives for which I, as Minister for Transport, am responsible. Firstly, the government will launch a new and more thorough interpretation of the EU's unclear rules on bus cabotage. In this context, as restrictive an interpretation as possible will be adopted. The EU cabotage rules for buses have been in force in their current form since 2009. The rules are less restrictive than what we know from the freight transport area. Foreign buses can now operate cabotage for a limited period of time, but the bus regulation does not define exactly how long it takes. In addition, there is no requirement for a prior international tour before buscabotage can be carried out. As the rules are unclear, this means that there is some room for interpretation for the Member States. I do not think it can be the intention that it should be possible for foreign bus companies to carry out almost permanent domestic services in Denmark. Therefore, we will now take a more detailed look at how, within the scope of interpretation permitted by EU law, we can adopt a strict interpretation that can help to reduce the extent of systematic bus cabotage in Denmark. I can inform you that in November 2017, the European Commission presented a proposal for the revision of the Bus Regulation. Unfortunately, it is not intended that any more light will be shed on the unclear cabotage rules or that the rules will be tightened. This may be linked to the fact that the bus industry has not raised the issues set out in the motion for a resolution with the Commission during the consultation phase. The negotiations on the proposal in the Council have not yet begun, but when the negotiations begin, I will take the Danish examples with me and use them in the negotiations with the Commission and the other EU countries. I can say that Denmark within the Road Transport Alliance has already raised the issue of the unclear rules, and the feeling is that there is an understanding of the Danish view of ensuring clearer and simpler rules. Finally, on this initiative, I would like to say that it is important to bear in mind that the cabotage rules concern the vehicle. Cabotage rules do not regulate matters relating to the driver, including the pay conditions under which they are operated. The guarantee of Danish pay conditions for foreign drivers therefore has nothing to do with the cabotage rules. That detail often has to do with disappearing in the debate. I note, however, that this government took steps in the matter last summer and introduced a requirement for bus cabotage to be notified in the RUT register. Another initiative taken by the government is to clarify the Danish interpretation of the driving-rest-time rules on the illegal holding of rest in the vehicle. To help the police enforce the rules, we will conduct a neighboring check to see if there is any experience from other countries that we can benefit from. Since the rules are set at EU level, it is clear that we cannot make radical changes through national interpretations, but we will check whether there are some handles that can be screwed on. Thirdly, the government will increase the level of fines for illegal resting in the vehicle. Today, the minimum fee of DKK 1,000 is based on the Road Traffic Act. to the driver and a fine of DKK 2,000. to the company because there is no explicit legislation on the level of sanctions. It is the government's opinion that the level of sanctions is too low to have a preventive effect. What the level of sanctions is actually to be, I have not decided yet, but it must be higher than the level applied by the police today. Where the level of fines is to be imposed, we can discuss in the Ministry when a meeting has been held in the calendar. Fourthly, the government will extend the current parking control of the Danish Road Safety Authority on motorway ramps to rest areas on the rest of the State road network. As a fifth initiative, Denmark joins the Euro Contrôle Route. It is an organisation of European enforcement authorities with at present. 13 Member States. The main focus of the organisation is to coordinate controls between authorities and to harmonise methods and develop best practices in the field of control. Denmark will initially participate with the Danish Trade Agency; it may later be considered whether other control authorities should also be represented. The government has also decided to set aside EUR 15 million. kr. for an extraordinary reinforcement of the roadside control in 2019. The amount is in addition to what has already been set aside by the Financial Law Agreement by additional funds to strengthen police action in the area of heavy goods vehicles. The monitoring activities may include: consist of targeted actions and checks on compliance with the rules relating, in particular, to orderly conditions in the field of road transport. The Padborg case showed that action against disorderly and unfair conditions in the road transport sector concerns the responsibilities of several ministers. The Government's other initiatives will therefore be presented by my ministerial colleagues. The motion for a resolution provides for the government to convene parties of the Folketing to negotiate initiatives to ensure free and fair competition in the bus market. The government is in favour of meeting with the parties once negotiations on the joint action have been completed and when the government has had the opportunity to study more closely the proposal on pay conditions for foreign drivers sent by FH and DA to the Minister for Employment last week. It is a proposal which also includes the bus industry. As the situation is today, it is up to the trade union movement to ensure proper pay conditions for foreign drivers in Denmark. If the problem in the bus sector is as great as the motion for a resolution suggests, I am surprised that the trade union movement has not gone into the struggle with the action that the trade union movement has at its disposal. For example: in Copenhagen, it is not so difficult to locate the location of the foreign buses by among others. various tourist attractions and cruise ships. In any case, I note that Dansk PersonTransport has not had any problems with it. I would like to conclude by pointing out that there should be no doubt that ensuring orderly and fair conditions in the road transport sector is taken very seriously by the government. I therefore look forward to a constructive dialogue with the parties on the subject. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410165740	You're welcome. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410165744	Thank you very much to the Minister for this welcoming attitude to our resolution. It also seems that the government is now going to do something about it. But isn't it a little late on the part of the government? So, among the things we can mention in the motion for a resolution here is that there are many foreign buses driving in Denmark, among others. in the streets of Copenhagen and that for 21 of the 22 buses checked, VAT is not paid. For four out of six, there has been no record of the RUT register. I mean, aren't these alarming figures that the government should have done a long time ago with increased control?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410165826	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410165827	The government has done the same. Especially when tax and VAT are mentioned, there has been a special effort in 2018 towards these companies. This has also led me to know that a large number of infringements have been detected, which have then been sanctioned. But I really think it is worth asking again: what is the trade union movement doing? Why does the trade union movement not take on its role of taking professional action in relation to these companies? It is not like cabotage with goods where you do not know where they are and where they come from. They're down by the Little Mermaid. Why are the trade unionists not standing down there with tabs and taking the fighting steps and using the blockade options that you can legally do? If you criticise the government for not doing anything, what does the Social Democrats think about the trade union movement doing nothing?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410165933	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410165935	My best impression is that the trade union movement has been so much on the field here. But it's fine if you can do even more. What I understand is that back in 2017, but also during 2018, not only from the trade union movement, but also from Dansk PersonTransport, what was formerly called Danske Busvognmander, was in demand, that something more was done in terms of ensuring control. You actually felt like you were hitting a duvet when you approached the government because nothing happened. Is it the case that the Minister can reveal when the government became aware that there was a problem here? As I understand it, only six months ago there was insufficient control in this area. There the organization had the impression that there was not enough control.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410170022	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410170023	But I also think that the trade union movement and Danish PersonTransport have slept per hour. I can, for example. I should like to say that the Commission has been working on this and has had a hearing, but that no consultation material has been sent to the Commission by the parties mentioned, so that the Commission does not know at all that this is a problem in Denmark. The Commission must therefore only hear it from the Danish Government when we meet about it. And in the Road Transport Alliance, it is also the Danish government that mentions this matter. Where is the trade union movement and industry in this area when the Commission calls for consultation?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410170101	Then I would like to thank the Minister and welcome him. Claus Kvist Hansen from the Danish People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410170120	Thank you. On land, on water, in the air and on the bus it could be the answer if someone should ask me where in society we find social dumping. As if it is not enough for Danish craftsmen to be out-dated by foreign craftsmen living behind a bush in the park and underpaid, if they are paid at all, and as if it is not enough for Danish drivers in the transport industry to be out-dated by Filipino drivers living in cardboard boxes in Padborg, no, Danish bus drivers are indeed exposed to social dumping. Only imagination gradually sets the limit to what the EU rules on free movement of workers and open borders have of costly side effects, namely that Danish workers are outperformed under totally unequal conditions. And we in the Danish People's Party will of course fight that with beaks and claws. We could talk at length about how the problem of social dumping in the bus industry exactly manifests itself, but VAT fraud, poor wages and conditions of employment and systematic cabotage are, in general, the main features of social dumping. And we'll find them here too. So to be very brief: yes, the Danish People's Party naturally supports the resolution. Let's get started quickly. This has been hanging for far too long in the brake, and although I thought it was quite entertaining to hear the Socialist rapporteur and the Minister for Transport talk about where exactly the monkey was, the truth is that it is something that changing governments over the last 15 to 20 years have failed to solve properly. So let's just set the level of ambition where it just needs to be fixed. And if I am going to make a small point, it is the case that we in the Danish People's Party are generally critical of the European Union, and I simply do not understand why the strong pro-European parties have long since done nothing about precisely social dumping. Because if there is something that is a small barn tip here that seriously undermines the public's support for the EU project, unless, of course, you are skeptics as I am, then it is social dumping. There is not a soul who can understand how this has been possible, and it has been going on year after year. So if this resolution could be the starting point for us to put an end to a small branch of social dumping at least, then that would be happy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410170354	You're welcome. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410170357	Thank you for that and thank you to the Danish People's Party for supporting the proposal. I would like to hear the rapporteur just reflect a little on the responsibility at home, because one thing is that there are some Polish people who choose to take up a lot of men from the Philippines and dump them into a transport industry where they live in poor conditions and are subjected to downgrading treatment and poor working conditions, another is that we have some Danish transport providers and operators who choose to do this, who choose to use these opportunities. How does the Danish People's Party react to the Danish citizens, who are time and again those who enter into this social dumping, who are time and again those who allow themselves to treat people who do not come from Europe as slaves or in a slave-like way? What is the Danish People's Party's position on these Danish citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410170504	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410170507	If I have understood the rapporteur's question correctly, i.e. who can blame it here in Denmark, i.e. the Danish road hauliers who are behind social dumping in the transport industry and the bus industry, Danish companies who are behind social dumping with ordinary employees in the construction industry, then it is they who are organizing it here, including Danes, yes, especially Danes. It is. They are the ones who say: I can make money from this; I don't care about a lot of rules, and I don't care about the model we now have in Denmark, that you have to earn a decent salary and have to be able to support yourself and yours and then you have to have a good salary. So if what the rapporteur is trying to do is to make me say that there are Danes who are responsible for this, the answer is of course, of course there is. I would actually go as far as to say that the Polish craftsman is the one we have the least to blame for, because it is reasonable that as a citizen of the world we should do what we can to make ourselves a happier life and earn some more money. The fact that you are then cheated is, of course, sad, but the private craftsman in Poland has nothing to blame for. I'd do the same. If my country was not functioning properly and I could earn perhaps fourfold by going to Portugal, then I would do so. However, I would not be surprised if there were some Portuguese authorities who said that it is not going to work, because that and that are not working. The responsibility is shared. There are some bad guys who are organizing this. They must, of course, be stopped. There are also some authorities that have had too long to find a solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410170641	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410170642	Thank you. It was not really for the rapporteur to take the word Danes in his mouth and then be negative, it was more because it is guided by cynical capital thinking, where you put the economy before people. That is more the focus I believe we are missing in the debate. We simply do not have the courage to deal with the moral decay of greedy people. It doesn't matter whether it's Filipinos or Poles, but we call it the Filipino fin, as if it's Filipinos who come and do a trick in our society, even though it's a Danish man who's sitting and pressing the button and exploiting and enslaving a lot of people. How are we gonna change that? Of course, more control is needed. How are we gonna make that more control? And how are we going to do this at a social level, perhaps through some kind of public education debate, where we can bring people more to account for the actions that are working against a good and solidarity society?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410170739	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410170742	In fact, I think I know what the questioner thinks, but the question is probably on a metapsychological level, where I may not be able to give a clear indication of how we generally in the world and in Europe are getting better people, so that we ourselves do not allow that kind of thing. Perhaps it is a little outside the scope of such a most sacred afternoon here. But yes, it is true that it is a breach of trust, and it is gross exploitation, and it is a lack of morality, and it is bad ethics. You name it, I get it. There's nothing there. Unfortunately, it has turned out that trust is good, but that control is better, and the raid has turned out to be what was needed to really get a look at this. The world is an imperfect place, and people aren't all good. I think that is the best answer I can give to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410170834	Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410170836	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party and also to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party for taking part in this motion for a resolution. I think it is important that we have a broad-based alliance in the Folketing that would like to combat social dumping in all its forms. Specifically in this area, one of the things that has been promoted is that one could imagine that there could be a contractual requirement, so that if you drive a bus in Denmark, you have to be covered by the applicable agreement. Is this something that the Danish People's Party can see itself in when we get the opportunity to come over to the minister and negotiate, so that we can get written into the legislation, that you drive a bus in Denmark, then you have to drive on terms that correspond to the Danish agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410170921	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410170922	Well, this is the usual little teasing game that the Social Democrats are running against the Danish People's Party, i.e. whether it should be contractual or not. And traditionally we have trade union freedom. You don't have to have agreements. So that is not what we are going to have to do, that is to say there must be a requirement for union membership and so on. etc. But what I think is in the cards is that we ensure that the pay and employment conditions that these people from outside live and work under in Denmark become sensible and something that tolerates comparison with other parts of the civilised world. So, there I hope we can get closer, but it is possible that at some point we reach a limit where we say that it is not necessarily the case that a contract of employment must be approved by 3F. Because I'm not sure about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410171016	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410171017	The intention of us Social Democrats is certainly not to tease, but it is to find some options and to come together on what we can agree on. And having decent pay and working conditions is of course the most important thing. It's just been like this in the past, before this NORTRA judgment, that, among other things. was in force in the Road Transport Act, and it could then be imagined that there would also be an agreement in force in relation to bus services. In the area of goods transport it was such that it could be a 3F agreement in the past, but it could also be an agreement with the Kristelig Fagsfjægselsen (The Danish Trade Union Confederation) that is to say, a good, solid, recognised Danish agreement. That must be about the level if we are talking about Danish pay and working conditions. Or how does the Danish People's Party view it?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410171103	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410171105	In fact, I do not think I get much closer than I did in my previous answer. In other words, what this is all about is that we have to have proper conditions, we have to have controlled conditions, and we have to take action against the villains described in detail by the Alternative's rapporteur just now. But exactly where we get the line goes, I don't think I can stand here and say. What this is all about, I think, is getting the right players together, the people who understand it, the people who live in this industry and live off this industry, and then the minister finds out what a useful solution can be. Whether it should be exactly on one side or the other, must come on a test.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410171144	Thank you, sir. Claus Kvist Hansen. And welcome to Mr. Carsten Kissmeyer, Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410171153	Thank you for the floor. The resolution we are debating today proposes new rules and initiatives to combat social dumping in the bus sector and ensure free and fair competition in the bus market. And that is the Left in favour of it. So we support the proposal. We would like to thank you for starting this debate and for the fact that a resolution has actually been tabled. We welcome the resolution as it supports our work in ensuring orderly conditions and fair competition in road transport. In the Left, we are basically convinced that the free movement of services and labour is of great benefit to Denmark and the Danish economy, but we must recognise that the road transport sector is probably the most mobile sector across the EU's borders, and that is where we have a challenge for the labour market. It should not be possible for foreign bus companies to carry out systematic cabotage or permanent domestic services, thereby practicing unfair competition with Danish hauliers and drivers. Therefore, we would very much like to see how we can help to change that. We can, of course, take the first step to clarify the Danish interpretation of the rules on driving rest time, which are today widely interpreted by the Member States of the European Union. We can also help the police enforce the rules by looking to our neighbouring countries to see if they have gained experience that we can benefit from at home. In addition, we would like to increase the level of fines for illegal resting in the vehicle, because today the minimum penalty imposed by the Road Traffic Code is only DKK 1,000. to the driver and 2,000 kroner. to the company. We think that is actually too low. Secondly, we would like Denmark to join the Euro Contrôle Route so that we can coordinate control between the authorities and develop and share best practice in the field of control. This will strengthen our knowledge and experience so that we can improve control in the future. One way in which we can deal with this problem, as the authors have pointed out in the motion for a resolution, is to strengthen roadside checks. We have already done so with the last two financial agreements, where we set aside 80 million. kr. during the period 2018-2022 in separate interventions for orderly conditions in the field of road transport. Now we add another 15 million. kr. to a special effort of control between the police and the Department of Commerce to further strengthen control. We welcome this in the Left. In the Left we are working to transfer the roadside control of heavy vehicles to the Danish Road Administration as a Danish version of the German BAG. In conclusion, we in the Left are in favour of meeting with the parties when we have had the opportunity in the government to study the proposal on pay conditions for foreign drivers. That said, we will support the motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410171454	You're welcome. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Prehn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410171456	Well, I'd like to thank you very much, sir. Carsten Kissmeyer and the Left for their support for our resolution. We're really happy about that. Thank you, too, for agreeing that we simply need to have more control over compliance with the conditions that apply when driving, for example. Eastern European drivers around for miserable salaries when VAT is not under control and when the RUT register is not in control, etc. This is totally unacceptable. So thank you for that. It is, of course, positive that from years ago, the Left has to be completely liberal and just want market conditions for everything that has been done is now agreed that we need to regulate and control a little. So I'd like to sign for that. I would like to repeat my question, which I also put to the Danish People's Party, namely this: can we imagine going to where we are simply making it a law that when you drive a bus in Denmark, like if you drive a cargo, you have to have a valid agreement, simply to ensure that there is a certain bottom level of what to accept in terms of pay and working conditions? Can the Left be a part of that?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410171600	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410171602	But there is the fact that my President has actually come up with a proposal in relation to social dumping, and I would like to draw the honourable Member's attention to that proposal. I noted that it did not get the best deal, but it is one of the methods. I do not think that we are moving along the path mentioned by the questioner immediately. I would like to refer to former rapporteurs who say that there is freedom of organisation in Denmark, and that is why we need to consider what it is like for us to deal with this particular issue. But there is no doubt that we in the Left do not want people to go for a totally unfair wage or have totally unfair working conditions. That is not our approach.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410171645	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410171647	Now the Prime Minister suddenly got off a little wrong with a mysterious proposal, which is, of course, about state doing everything instead of letting it be built on voluntary organisations. After all, we have a long tradition in Denmark that it is the social partners who take care of these things. And that is why we in the Social Democratic Party were saddened by the fact that the bomb was delivered under the Danish tradition and the Danish model. So the question here is: could we not have as a requirement that we should have an agreement so that, by voluntary means, we find a system where there is a certain level of pay so that we avoid this kind of social dumping?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410171727	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410171731	It is not immediately the approach of the Left that we should have such a requirement.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410171734	Thank you, sir. Carsten Kissmeyer. There are no more brief comments. And welcome to Mr. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410171748	It is of course important that we ensure proper working conditions and equal competition in the bus industry, and we certainly do not have that today. We should not accept a situation like the one we have seen in Padborg. I am not going to repeat the long series of initiatives that have been mentioned by both the Minister and the rapporteur of the Left. I certainly think it would be beneficial for the government to call the parties of the Folketing to discuss these initiatives. I should like to welcome the Conservatives and say that they share this view.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410171827	Thank you, sir. Villum Christensen, and welcome to Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410171841	Thank you for that, President. This is an important proposal which, among other things, is: have been tabled by the undersigned. We have already taken some of the debate, and I would really like to thank the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party for putting into words what I think we need to talk about very much when we talk about the challenges in the transport sector in relation to social dumping, namely that those who employ and exploit free movement are some who undermine confidence in our democratic society. There are some who have miserable morals and who think more of themselves than they think of a spirit of solidarity in a welfare society. I do not see, as a starting point, that freedom of movement is the great evil, but it is clear that the rights relating to the economy and products should not be above social and trade union rights, but should be more equal and, if a choice is to be made, it is, of course, the social and trade union rights that must prevail if we are to take care of our nation states in this good EU cooperation. Having said that, however, I do not think that we can only problematize freedom of movement, but that we must also make a major contribution to the moral challenge of enslaving people to the extent that we see with social dumping not only but also in the transport sector. That is unacceptable. It is shameful and should not exist in the 21st century. In fact, I see it a little in line with colonialism that we in the global North can allow ourselves to exploit people from the global South in this way, whether it is in an au pair scheme or it is in a social dumping scheme. It should not exist in an enlightened society. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410172059	You're welcome. There are no brief comments. Then I have the great pleasure of welcoming Mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410172110	Thank you for your kind words, President. The proposal here will require the government to call for negotiations, and it is a little difficult to be against that, because there is no need to do anything about it, and we do not commit ourselves to any specific solutions, but we are committed to a meeting, and I understand from the speech by the Minister for Transport that the government intends to convene. So this resolution has already been implemented before we are finished. That's fine. But of course we can support such a meeting because it is obvious with the revelations that Danske Busvognmænd, now called Dansk PersonTransport, has found that there is already some cheating and deception in relation to the legislation that exists today. That is why there is certainly a need to hold such a meeting and to hold some negotiations. It also sounded like the Minister for Transport, as if some initiatives are already under way, and that the government will take the lead in the EU system for more sensible and fairer regulation throughout transport. It is not just about buses, it is about the whole of transport. We can fully support this, and we can also support the fact that we are particularly looking at whether the Traffic Authority, the tax authorities and other authorities have sufficient resources to control the rules that are already in place. That is at least what I understand in the industry is one of the problems they have been very frustrated about, namely that they believe that some people are cheating but that they are not being caught. So we look forward to those negotiations and would very much like to participate constructively in them.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410172252	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410172255	We welcome the Radical Left's constructive approach to this and also the recognition that there is a problem in this area. There is no doubt that the fact that the government is laying the ground for more control on the roads, which can ensure that we avoid tax evasion, fraud with VAT, cheating on the RUT register, etc., is positive. It is also positive that we work constructively in the European Union. What may then be a little out of the question is what we can do more determinedly to ensure adequate pay and working conditions. And that has been the case in the past, among other things. in the area of health and safety, that a contractual requirement has been imposed so that those driving must have certain wage and working conditions, as described in an agreement which is generally applicable. What is the Radical Left's position in demanding that such matters as contractual relations should be dealt with?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410172355	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410172357	We would like to take a positive view of this if it can be kept within the framework of both the Constitution and EU law. After all, there was a judgment in the Supreme Court which said that some of what has been in, I can't remember whether it was the taxi or the goods traffic law, was contrary to the Constitution. Of course, we are not in favour of this, but otherwise we will take a positive view of it. Without having been in the detail of what came last week, I read it as if the social partners have actually already made proposals to us, which in the press were mostly about trucks, but which I understand it could actually be about buses as well. So let's go check it out. We can start by doing so at the meeting we are about to hold.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410172439	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410172440	But we Social Democrats are extremely pleased that the Radical Left is also joining this fight. This is how we know the Radicals, as social liberals, who also take account of the social part of it and do not want to accept that there are people running around on pay and working conditions that they cannot provide for their families on the basis of. So thank you for that, we look forward to the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410172503	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410172504	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410172507	Thank you, sir. Andreas Steenberg. There are no more brief comments. And we have now come to the rapporteur for the proposers, Mr. Rasmus Prehn, who is free to use this fine platform for the next 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410172528	Thank you very much, President. I also believe that it can be done a little shorter than the 10 minutes, although it is a rather important proposal that lies here. First of all, I would like to thank the participants in this debate and thank them for their tremendously positive support for our resolution. On the part of the Social Democratic Party, we have been pleased that we have been able to secure an alliance broadly based in the Danish Parliament, namely with the Danish People's Party and most of the red bloc, which has supported the making of this proposal. And then it is a good thing that some of the parties that have not been involved in presenting the proposal have now said here afterwards that they are in the process of negotiating it here. So we'd like to sign for that. And it is, in fact, the cooperative popular government at its very best. It is not everyone who has been able to be here in the debate and two of my very good friends, who have also been co-sponsors of the Socialist People's Party. Karsten Hønge and Enhedslistens, sir. Henning Hyllested, has been prevented from attending because they have other meetings and negotiations. So I should also like to welcome them and express a great pleasure that there is now a broad collection of the specific proposal here. It has been the case in recent years that we have seen that there has been an increase in the number of foreign buses driving around, especially in Copenhagen, driving tourist services, driving guided tours, etc., and things have not been sorted out. And there we have also been able to see with the checks that have been carried out, that there have been surprisingly many people who have been driving around without VAT being managed without any record of registration in the RUT register, and so there are also a lot of examples that the drivers who have been driving have been running on very dubious pay and working conditions. Some have been forced to spend the night on the bus and others, and it is totally unacceptable that this is so. That is why it is the intention of the proposers that we should have clear rules in this area. And these are rules that we have to adopt here in Denmark, but it is also a work that we have to do together with the rest of the European Union, so that there will be fair rules of play in this area. And, of course, it is a good thing that something has been put in place by the government in this area too. There was a time when the government turned down a little of the controls that were on the roads, and it is a good thing that we have now woken up and then think: we should turn up again. We support that and it is positive. It is positive that the government has squeezed in relation to the negotiations in the EU and the work on the Road Package. This is something that we support and that is a step in the right direction. What stands out is that we will have a slightly clearer set of rules in relation to how we ensure that those who drive buses, and also those who drive freight, in Denmark, have proper pay and working conditions. And I have listened there to the fact that all the rapporteurs who have spoken, including the Minister, are in a position to agree that we need something to work here. On the part of the Social Democratic Party, we thought it appropriate that there should be a demand for a Danish agreement. I also listened that not everyone is quite sure that this is the way forward. But let us put ourselves together and try to find a solution where we are sure that there is a framework for people to receive a salary for whom they can support their families, a wage on which they can live, and that there are also some working conditions that are acceptable. We think this is absolutely crucial, not only to get a labour market that we can be familiar with, but also to ensure that there is fair and fair competition, so that the many, for example, Danish bus hauliers who want their business to work, are not faced with quite unreasonable and unbearable competition from foreign hauliers, who enter into questionable conditions where you do not live up to Danish standards. So let's sit down and get this straight. We are really, really happy with the constructive spirit that has been in the Chamber today, and we also hope that people will live up to it once we sit and negotiate and that we do not start to run away from some of the promises that have been made in this Chamber today, because that is simply too important for it. So thank you all for the support for this and for the continued good evening.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410173009	You're welcome. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410173013	Thank you for that and thank the rapporteur for being passionate about presenting our ambitions with this proposal. We in the Alternative would very much like to talk further about whether agreements can come into play in order to combat this problem. There I think a little further and think of chain responsibility. Would it be interesting to see whether we can bring these road hauliers and other operators to account, i.e. chain liability, in relation to the demand also for labour outside the European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20190410173053	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410173054	I think we should have an in-depth discussion of all possible options and there are many good elements in thinking chain responsibility. It is often something in which some of those who are the buyers of a service are obliged to live up to the fact that things are under control in the extreme. Whether it makes sense in this context, I'm not quite sure. As I understand it, this has been the case, for example. some Chinese companies that have driven some tourist drive inside Copenhagen, and then some Danish customers have simply bought a service from them. So there has been a direct trade and nothing where it has been in a chain. However, it may be that I need to be informed more about what the rapporteur is thinking about in order to understand the perspective of this, but that is not something we reject in advance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410173153	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410173154	Now the rapporteur has just said that they would like to talk further about it. But yes, the definition of chain liability is precisely to ensure that the services you buy or the people you use also have conditions that meet the standard, just as if you buy floors from a Brazilian production, you know that those who have worked with these floors have not been subjected to slave-like conditions. But yes, it must be up to a debate with the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410173224	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410173226	In any case, it is good practice in Denmark that you always think in when it is you buy something, if things are so straightened out. Do the people you deal with have any terms that are acceptable? I think it is something that should serve as an inspiration to everyone in Danish society that we should simply bear in mind that it should not be the case that, just to get a cheap price, we overlook the fact that there are questionable conditions. That is why we are also hitting as hard as we are with this motion for a resolution and are setting out to have clear rules in this area. Whether it should involve elements of what the Alternative's rapporteur refers to, we need to discuss more closely. We understand from the Minister that he will call for negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410173317	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Prehn. No one else has asked to speak, and the negotiations have therefore been concluded. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Transport, Building and Housing. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190410173337	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting today, apart from thanking everyone for their efforts in the service of the people. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Friday, 12 April 2019. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
