ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e3858	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-Chancellor, I wish you a good morning and open the 49. Meeting of the National Council. The Official Protocol of the 48. Meeting of 5. In November 2014, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. For today's sitting as prevented, Members of Parliament are reported Katzian, Keck, Muchitsch, Steinacker, Zakostelsky, Steger, Rossmann and Hagen. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e3889	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: The Federal Minister for Families and Youth Dr. Sophie Karmasin is the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management, Dipl.-Ing. Andrä Rupprechter. I announce that this meeting will be broadcast live from ORF 2 to 1 p.m. and from ORF III. [[09:06:29]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e3927	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: ‘The location lie: No future without the environment’ First of all, Mrs. Club Chairman Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek has spoken. I give the floor to you and draw attention to the fact that the speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e3954	Good morning, Madam President. Mr Vice-Kanzler, Minister of Economic Affairs and Energy, you are currently having a very exciting task, namely to draw up a location strategy for Austria for the next years, which is enshrined in the government programme. At the moment, we are in a phase in which we have the first drafts on the table, and now the time has come for a very critical look at these designs. The paper will probably go through the Council of Ministers sometime in the next few weeks; it was essentially written by the economy itself, by the CEOs of the leading companies of Austria. I propose to you a little what is provided for in this paper: of course, free trade agreements, TTIP and CETA, a commitment for the promotion of shale gas for Europe, i.e. fracking in Europe, no binding targets for renewable energy sources and energy efficiency, no high greenhouse gas reduction targets, of course also low additional labour costs, deregulation package, modern working time models. You can discuss all of this, but the part against environmental protection, climate protection, for fracking basically means a strategy for Austria, for Europe, which means: cheap, dirty energy – and the future is we're wretched! We do not want to do that, and that is why we have this debate with you today. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We had this in the 1970s, the myth, the environment and the economy would not be compatible. The Austrian success story in the field of environmental technology proves the smooth opposite. Think of the filter technologies, we think of waste management, which has been extremely successful in Eastern Europe, and we think of our renewable energies, the solar power, the boiler manufacturers, the successes in all these areas! This site paper endangers thousands of jobs if it actually becomes the strategy for Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] You now have a direction decision to make: either retro-policy – that is, the classical collapse, the environment against the economy – or you go a sustainable way, a future-oriented path, which also includes a little bit of innovation and modernity. We want to help you with this way. This is now the highlight – as I observe it, as we observe it – of a campaign that has now been led by the Industrial Association and the Chamber of Commerce for a year and a half with false claims, which do not become more true by repeating them over and over again. That is why we are also talking about location lies, and I am going to do so now in detail as to why these claims are actually false. You can take the counter-proof. I'm starting with the myth that renewable energies can't afford to be all too expensive, eco electricity promotions et cetera. [[Abg. Fekter: Who says that?]] You must have heard that before, all of which are statements by the CEOs of the leading companies. [[Abg. Fekter: Never have we!]] The opposite is true: Worldwide, the promotion of fossil energy – i.e. coal, oil, gas and atom – is five times the promotion of renewable energy, the fivefold, worldwide. [[Abg. Haubner: Worldwide!]] In the European Union it is still the double thing, and I say one thing to you: If you say the bacon has to go, then it's here in the promotion. These are taxpayers, so that is what citizens still pay for oil, for coal, for gas and for other nuclear power plants in Europe – and that must be done once, and with the attack on renewables! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The second myth is that we cannot afford to achieve climate change objectives, climate change targets endanger the economic competitiveness of Europe. There always comes the view of the USA. – Yes, it’s right, in the US gas prices have fallen in recent years due to the shale gas boom, due to huge investments in the so-called Shale gas, but if you look at the development a little more precisely, then you’ll see that the Gap is already going together again. In 2012, prices in Europe and the USA have already approached again. And if you look at the fact that even in America the citizen resistance is now beginning to grow, that investment is falling, then you really have to ask yourself the question of whether one can demand economic policy – environmental – this is not a subject anyway – actually dirty shale gas promotion for Europe, and that in an Austrian paper. I think we agree that there are very different conditions in Europe – it is much more densely populated, the incidences are all less than 3,000 meters – and that the approach to be taken here in Europe is completely wrong. I would also like this attitude to be made by an economic and energy minister. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We have now heard a lot about the so-called emigration, the so-called threat of migration from sites in Austria, in Europe to other parts of the world. But let's look at that more closely! Again, we do not have to deal with verifiable claims. Since 14 years, i.e. since 2000, we have had almost 2,000 new plants in Austria alone. Especially the energy-intensive, the companies of the chemical industry have developed extremely positively in recent years, with growth as well as all other industries. There are no relocations in the sense that there are locations in other parts of the world. However, it is also good that Austrian companies operating internationally also have standing gates in Asia and serve the market there, so to speak. So let us end this myth with the relocation of the site and focus on what businesses really need, namely innovation, education and training! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Pock.]] One thing I wish myself much more intense: If you wonder what is the most important bank in Austria, then you have to say that it is not the Raika, the First Bank, the Hypo or perhaps the Government Bank, but it is the School Bank, it is the Training Bank. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And that's something that's far too short for me in this location strategy you've been working out here. There is another attack point: It is always said that the energy transition endangers the economy and employment. I am telling you that the opposite is true, no energy transition is at risk of economic and employment. In Austria we now have about €1.6 billion per year of environmental industry's contribution to gross domestic product. There are over 40 000 jobs, extremely much innovation, extremely much export orientation, extremely high-quality know-how in this area. This sector should continue to grow. This sector needs strict environmental rules. In this industry, First Mover, this industry needs your support – and not that you support the industry in order to make this industry small and broken. And this danger exists. Remember the discussions in the 1970s, and then take a look at the success story of the Austrian companies in the field of environmental technology! Then you know, I think you should be on which side! One last thing: I do not believe that you are doing a favour with targets such as ‘no efficiency targets, no renewable goals’ in Europe. On the contrary: If Austria places itself on the side of the brakes, you are endangering innovation and economic opportunities across Europe – and this has been done by Austria, which has been demonstrated by you as Minister of Energy, that was the position of the Austrian Federal Government regarding climate change targets in Europe. I would also like to tell you why: Only the small, fine difference, whether to stand for 27 percentage points renewable energy at the current share or for 30 percentage points, alone this small difference, these 3 percentage points make up 20 AKW à la Hankley Point. So if If you are not committed to higher renewable targets, you will roll out the red carpet for the nuclear economy in Europe. That's double-bedded, and we don't want that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We want you to make yourself strong at European level for renewable energy. With regard to energy efficiency, I am now going to have a bit of imagination, which is meant by these arguments and these false claims. There are industrial captains who say that energy efficiency is not meaningful in the economic sense, point. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler.]] So if anything makes sense for the economy, it's energy efficiency, and I quote you yourself: They always say that the cheapest hour of energy supply is the one that is not even consumed. Being against energy efficiency targets is completely enigmatic and obscene to me, in the light of the fact that we are now spending €13 billion net per year on energy imports from regimes such as Saudi Arabia, Russia et cetera, instead of establishing a market with new markets, with services as efficiently as possible. To act against efficiency targets is a real stupidity for the people. However, you can prove the opposite to me today, and I would like you to really speak about this location strategy. Will this be the strategy that Austria pursues – that is, cheap, dirty energy, fracking in Europe, against reduction targets, against energy efficiency, against renewable energy – or go a way into 20. - Century? We're happy to help.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e4071	Mr Vice-Chancellor Dr Mitterlehner spoke on a preliminary opinion. Mr Vice-Chancellor, I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e4092	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Dear visitors to the gallery, especially from the 8. Class Maria Regina! Dear viewers in front of the TV screens! I understand the Greens that they now need a new topic, and I also understand that they now want to devote themselves to the field of economics. I think that the wording you have chosen here is somewhat contradictory, so it is not quite clear. ‘The location lie: Without the environment no future” is somehow a threefold denial, I don’t want to talk about lying, because the question is: Who is lying in this context? I believe that – I do not want to go into it at all, but rather the content – that you are in some way going about something, namely that you are telling us, my party, where it is going in the areas of environment and economy. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek:... talk to the ÖVP, with the Minister of Economic Affairs!]] Have you ever heard of the concept of the eco-social market economy? [[Call the Greens.]] We have just celebrated “25 years. ” [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, at the time you were not yet in Parliament when we already realized environmental policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] [[Abg. Wöginger: The fungus belongs to the inventory!]] I would like to show you by means of three examples that this is true. On the one hand, there is the line we have in Austria, and the line in the house. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] In Austria we have the line that we actually take environmental policy very seriously. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Climate protection!]] What do you know about this? – Look Once again, where we are at the targets associated, for example, with renewable energy. We have 32 percent renewable energy, where we are fourth in Europe. Thank you! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I thank you for carrying this. We have decided this with a two-thirds majority with you, you have also praised it, and I think the advantage of renewable energy is that we do not have over 200 € per consumer, but 50 €, and yet a reasonable renewable energy policy. It is similar with regard to energy efficiency. It was only three months ago that we decided together that we should go to 1 050 Petajule. This makes it necessary to save energy that is hard on the industry. Therefore: Thank you for that too! I think that is a reasonable way, and we are fourth in Europe in terms of energy efficiency. But from that we would not want to see the balance of the environment and the economy, I find that a little bit of it attracted to the hair. Therefore – also in this area – a very reasonable energy policy, but also a reasonable economic policy! Now, a first reference to the practice, to this strategy of control firms: Of course, the managers are there and there afraid that they will lose jobs. We cannot go on a path in the field of CO2 policy where Austria – perhaps with a pioneering role – or Europe remains, but the whole world – will not be rich all of Europe alone. In this context, management companies have developed a strategy. Mr Kogler, Mrs Herlitschka, or Mrs Strauss, as an old lady party, I think that is a little humiliating. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler.]] It just doesn't fit into a serious discussion. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Wenninger.]] Mrs Glawischnig, I know it is popular to derive the idea and development from the attack on the theme of fracking, the ÖVP, we already want fracking in Austria. [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: Stand in there!]] - No! I'm telling you, you just didn't quote exactly. We have the problem that in America gas costs about a quarter of what it costs in Austria. Europe must therefore consider the strategy it is developing. Our companies have considered and formulated the following: the development of a concept – concept, yes! – to promote shale gas in Europe and to promote research and development in the field of Clean Fracking in order to unlock the potential of these energy reserves in the sense of a supply diversification. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: “Clean Fracking” is like “clean nuclear power”!]] Clean Fracking is exactly what Professor Hofstätter is doing in Leoben to simply develop chemically clean substances and allow fracking – it is not finished yet. [[Call to the Greens: what ÖVP used to say to nuclear power!]] But it's something else if you're – please? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: What should be clean about it if you!]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] All right, you're gonna and don't want to understand. But it's a difference that you think we want to promote fracking now and force fracking. I wanted to illustrate to you once: We are doing an energy-oriented economic policy in Austria and do not need to hide from anyone! On the question of EU level: Ladies and gentlemen, it is obvious that I cannot make 40 per cent of the CO2 targets, without any connection to the economy. [[Abg. Kogler: There's an opinion anyway!]] I need to avoid carbon leakage – and that's what we do. Why is that good? Why is that positive? – Well, because I don’t have any of it if the industry is no longer in Europe. Mr Kogler: Not yelling in, but reading what you say! The voest, which in the field of CO2 emissions is the most exemplary operation in Europe and has also worked on our concept, is to be referred to as “powers on a retro-trip, fossil heads with concrete walls in front of the eyes”, and so on, so I don’t know honestly: [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler.]] I understand that you need topics. But I do not understand how you deal with our industrial firms that secure jobs! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Lopatka: Incredible!]] [[New calls from Members Kogler and Raedler.]] Therefore: I'm for a differentiated discussion. It is precisely this differentiated discussion that we have also addressed at EU level. We want to implement the objectives, but we also need a reasonable policy to ensure that those who are already working environmentally oriented are not penalised as well. This applies to Infineon, which applies to the voest, to all these Austrian companies. I hope that I have told you that at EU level, we are also committed to a reasonable, moderate policy that enables both: Environmental policy and economic policy. Now to practice: You're telling me we're going somewhere and we've got loud whisperers telling us something wrong! - We were in China right now. China is always suspected of not being entirely at the forefront of environmental policy. [[Abg. Kogler: Eben!]] But it's in rethinking. We took 25 scientists. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brunner.]] [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: CO2 reduction!]] Do you know what the Chinese told us there? We visited the company AT&S. What does it tell us? – We have environmental standards, which are actually as high as in Austria, and development is progressing dynamically. We need appropriate technology from Europe, from Austria. We were in Beijing. Those responsible there have been less interested in what we supply in the field of investment goods – car suppliers industry, others – but have asked the question – there is the project Clean Air for China, especially for Beijing: What can you do in the field of science and the economy to support us there? So the Green Technology issue is a subject we live on: the Environment Minister, we, our businesses. And you're gonna prescribe us or pretend we didn't realize the subject, we had wrong whisperers?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Kogler: Exactly!]] - You're far, far back. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The Austrian economy has long recognized that our future is, of course, still in the automotive sector, but that we also have corresponding advantages in the field of green technology in the future; we are working on this. And if you deliver and produce automotive, then according to state-of-the-art environmental standards. That is why I say to you openly: It's time for all of you today! With us, you hit open doors with huge cracks, because we have already implemented this for a long time. The alternative, that is, just economic policy and no environment, does not concern anyone anymore, so stupid is no one anymore, I think, not all over Europe. Therefore: We want a win-win situation! We want the technology, our chances of our businesses. Why do Andritz and other companies always take us on international travel? - Because we've known the chances for a long time. We do this in practice, which you do not yet recognize in theory. [[Abg. Kogler: Aha!]] Therefore: Win-win situation! There's a lot to do, but we're working on it. We don't need to discuss that again, because you missed the subject somewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e4413	I draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants at the current hour according to § 97a Abs. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 5 minutes. [[New calls at the ÖVP and the Abg. Kogler.]] [[Call: That was an owner]] Mr Matznetter is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e4448	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! I would like to start by congratulating Mrs Klubobfrau Dr. Nachbaur once more. This is one of the far more important things than much that is happening here! [[General condolences.]] These are the most beautiful gifts you can get on earth. No political success can ever achieve that, and in this sense: all love! [[Abg. Jarolim: This is almost Christmas!]] I come to the core question, which now focuses on the green current hour: Has the Austrian location been badly driven with the previous policy? Is this a bad escape for the future? Instead, we have the situation that the truth, as so often, is in the middle. For the ladies and gentlemen, seers: They can almost imagine what the interests are, for example, large industrial enterprises. - It's okay, it's their job. And an old saying says, The regret is the merchant's first virtue! – May everything be right. But what these companies find in Austria is one of the best economic locations in the world. We do not need a study where it is asked whether the Green Fairy at the Golf Course is cut short and how access to the expensive private school is, as in the case of manager surveys. There is an indicator that no one can doubt, and that is our export statistics. When Austria joined the European Union, we had an export worth €42.2 billion. We reached 100 billion ten years ago, after the 2009 crisis year, we fell to 93.7. But within five years, we have achieved an all-time high of €125.8 billion that our companies export abroad. That's not an opinion poll. That's not one: How do I feel today or tomorrow? – This is proof that it is an Austrian product that is bought because of the relation quality and price, instead of another from somewhere else in the world. And this is proof that this location is a good location. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Honestly, Mrs. Glawischnig: This would not happen if the Federal Government were to take the wrong steps permanently! This is because the framework we have in Austria is a good one, which speaks for the quality of the economic policy of the Faymann government and also of the Minister for Economic Affairs Mitterlehner. We are trying to find a means, and at the same time, of course, where the changes are concerned, to be at the forefront of the question of how energy is efficient. If Mr. Vice-Chancellor says that we are in fourth place with energy efficiency, this shows that we are really good on the road. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: But not yet very good! Good, but not very good!]] Every economic delegation – take the President of the Federal Republic with you! – consists of a third of Austrian companies who say: We have at home a technology that would make savings of 50 percent and more possible for you! You are there and you tell us how in Vienna it is handled that all the waste is recycled, that we fully reuse the thermal energy from it and thus warm up 100,000 households that no residual material leaves the city, that we have a public transport around which everyone else envys us. – They often don't believe that. They'll wonder if you tell them you're going more often by subway. This cannot be imagined at all in other cities, millions of cities in this world. If you tell them that you have a daughter with 15 years of age who can drive home alone at 11 in the night, because it is a safe city, then you show that such an overall concept of politics has created a land worth living. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[call to the FPÖ.]] I am not going into the fracking question now, because you rightly pointed out that this is much deeper in Europe than in the US. But one thing has to be clear to us: Of course, we also have managers with us who are trying to influence changes taking place in this European Union. You have to make that fair. I have also publicly criticised the Director-General Eder for this – he could almost sit here – side-by-side forms and leave something else. He pretends that the voest in Texas, in Corpus Christi, is investing because the location doesn't fit us anymore. [[Call at the FPÖ: Location matches! That's not true!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] He has kept us silent that we need a high sea port to make iron sponge production – and he has the fracking directly behind it. The problem is: Austria has lost its high seas port since 1918, and this could never have happened in Austria! It is reasonable that he invests there, and it is reasonable that he invests in Linz because we have the most efficient steel production in the world, and we are proud of that. We want to continue producing steel, even if the greens do not want it because it needs too much energy. We also live by this industry and confess to it.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e4551	The next item is the speech by Mr Lettenbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e4573	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear ladies and gentlemen! This is for me today the badly successful attempt of the Greens to take a foothold on a topic where they have zero competence – that is the issue of economy. [[Abg. Kogler: Please?! Ha, ha!]] [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: Hypo?! Hello?- Oh, my God!]] What you have today given of yourself to shakes and generalizations – not only today but also in your broadcast on Friday, Mr Kogler – I strongly reject this, which is retro-political in the truest sense of the word. Mrs Glawischnig said today that she wants the way into the 20th century. ==References== - Sorry, we've been in 21. ==References== What you're doing here is retropolitics in pure culture. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mrs Glavischnig, I do not want to give you anything, perhaps you also know about this “retro-industrial” – as Mr Brunner says – about the importance of the energy-intensive industry. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Talk about retropolitik first!]] I can give you a few figures here, and I can also ask you to remember them. In Austria, the energy-intensive industry employs more than 150,000 people directly, and indirectly it even employs 310 000 people. Goods worth more than €40 billion will be produced, and €2.4 billion per year will be invested in the site. If you don't want to, you have to tell people clearly. I am very sorry, and I can explain this to you on the basis of an example. Austria is a pioneer in the cement industry. Cement is a common good, you know, that's what you need. But if you do not want the Austrian cement industry to produce 15 percent less CO2 emissions than in the EU average, 20 percent less than in the world average, and even 33 percent less than in the USA, you have to tell people. [[Abg. Brosz: moved to Texas!]] Then we like to go out to the companies, together with colleagues from SPÖ, with works councils, and you tell the workers in the foundry industry, in the cement industry, pulp industry, paper industry, ceramics, glass and other basic materials that you do not want these plants in Austria. And if Mr Kogler writes in his press release on Friday, he doesn't like a reindustrialization, that's a dangerous threat. [[Abg. Kogler: What? Who's demanding reindustrialization? I don't know!]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Pirklhuber and Mr Brosz.]] And I say, Let us be glad that we have an industrialization rate of more than 20 percent. We are clearly above the EU average, and you also know that states with a high industrial ratio have better survived the crisis in 2008, 2009, 2010 – and unfortunately still remains in some cases – than countries such as Portugal, Greece, also France with 12 percent. We do not need less industry – as you demand: no reindustrialisation – but we need more than 20 percent, not only in Austria. [[Abg. Kogler: Yes, eh! But which one?]] – Read your press release through! We also do not let you play out, share in a good industry and a less good industry. [[Abg. Kogler: I'm talking about your consultants, read your mind! That's incredible!]] But I am grateful to you for addressing this issue of the management strategy today, because I have the opportunity to thank Mr Mitterlehner for his offensive approach to this issue and not as you close your eyes to what is happening in the world. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Wenninger.]] Look into the USA, there is a massive reindustrialization wave, there's a so-called job miracle. Of course, not everything that happens there is not to be welcomed. Only: The Americans are driving the more massive reindustrialization, such as the British. [[Abg. Kogler: The British have no industry at all!]] We need more industry, and I praise this process, as it was launched here, with this location strategy, in which more than 40 CEOs have introduced their thoughts and proposals, which are now being examined and implemented as far as possible. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: This is a paper of the ministry, that's the logo on it!]] I should also like to mention this management strategy: These companies are essential for the Austrian economy. [[Abg. Kogler: Yes, of course! Yes, of course!]] We need large, small, individual companies, but of course also the management strategy, because in a so-called fate community with many, many hundreds of SMEs, these companies are interconnected with and generate, through their existence, the two to threefold of value creation, employment and welfare, namely, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, I can recall an event of the Tyrolean Government from the beginning of October, which under the title "Tyrol 2050: In the future, efficiency has been maintained. At the time, the two heads of state representatives of the Greens and the ÖVP were present as well as the keynote speaker Professor Ernst Ulrich von Weizsäcker, who certainly says something to you. [[Abg. Kogler: Yes, to which we refer!]] In the discussion that followed, the conclusion was from him – and now please listen to me, Mr Kogler! –: Industry is not the problem, but the industry is the solution. - Take care of this! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e4818	The next item is the report by Mr Kassinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e4839	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! We live in a globalized economy, which is a fact. Whether you like it or not is another question. In a globalised economy, capital is looking for the place of the best interest rate. In a globalised economy, industry is looking for the place with the best location conditions. It is the policy of policy to make the location as attractive as possible to attract industry, because everything else, all small and medium-sized companies, the suppliers, the service providers, depends on the industry. Industry is the basis and backbone of every functioning economy, and ultimately every functioning democracy based on a social market economy. What is now relevant for a location? What distinguishes a good location? – First, a functioning rule of law and a state legal system, that is, the rule of law. Secondly, the quality and training and the diligence of people – education has already been addressed today. Third, input costs play a role. The economy still calculates according to the simple bill: Income minus cost is result, in the best case profit, in the bad case loss. It is about input costs, personnel costs, raw material costs – as the currency plays a role when it comes to procurement – energy costs. Fourth point: Taxation and taxation on staff and on corporate income – what is the situation? Fifth point: What are the requirements for the environment and climate protection? The sixth point is very important: long-term planning and predictability of economic policy for businesses. Seventh point: bureaucratic barriers – these are likely to play a greater role in small and medium-sized enterprises. Behind this point – you can still call it – is a corresponding market with local customers. I am not referring in detail to points three, four and seven in which we are particularly poor in Austria, but to the boldly printed points energy costs, the environmental and climate protection conditions and, above all, the long-term planning and predictability of economic policy. Europe is in a global competition of locations, and I feel that European policy is all about weakening the industrial location compared to the rest of the world. I also have the impression that the people in Brussels who think and decide these things do not always represent European interests, because the work of one or another of the many hundreds, thousands of American lobbyists will bear fruit. In the international, global comparison, Europe has far too high energy costs, too high taxes and taxes, too high personnel costs and, above all, no energy and environmental policies that are based on long-term calculability and planning. voest Director-General Eder has already been quoted today, I would also like to quote him. Eder said: "The trade in CO2 emission certificates, for example, is a synonym of the non-plannability of European policy, and there are new approaches in the half-term. For an industry whose planning cycles reach 30, 40 years, because of the cost of investment, the poison is expensive.” What are we doing? – As has already been mentioned, we already have very, very good environmental standards. We now want to limit ourselves even further and limit ourselves and, so to speak, be a bright example of the world. This is basically very plausible, but – I am sorry to have to say that – it is a bit naïve in real political, economic policy terms. We have a system where you buy other countries for expensive money certificates. This, of course, increases the input costs for the Austrian site. [[Abg. Brunner: This is a political decision made by Austria! You could have done it differently!]] The big bad thing is that the Americans and the Chinese are not involved. These two are laughing at the fists, and the European industry is moving to these countries. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It would be far, much more useful if Europe were to be truly committed to uniform standards at an ambitious and technically realistic level worldwide, and to achieve that, in particular, the Americans and the Chinese are also involved. What will be the result? – There’s no need to be a great view: In the end, for example, leading companies like voest will build a new plant in the USA and not in Austria. What does that mean? – That means hundreds and thousands of jobs in the US and not in Austria. This means value added in the USA and not in Austria. [[Abg. Kogler: These are expansion investments!]] Furthermore, it is illusory to believe that one can completely decouple research and development from production and only retain it in Europe. In the medium term, research and development also migrate to where production is located. You have to explain this to the hundreds of thousands of unemployed – with a sharp rise in trend – in Austria. And then perhaps the steel produced there will be sold to Europe. And if we cross and say that we don't want it because it was not eco-friendly, then a private arbitration court will be called up via TTIP and then we can pack it in. Do you really want that? [[Abg. Kogler: Of course not! What else?]] - We don't want that! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We liberals believe that the most burning problem we have today is the problem of exploding unemployment. We liberals want to make a policy whose top goal is to ensure the creation and maintenance of productive jobs. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This can only be a policy that gives our economy the optimum framework conditions at the site and that leaves our employees more net of gross in the stock exchange. But without a job there is not even a gross! That means: Job creation, of course with an environmental policy, but with a measure and objective – of course with an environmental policy, but with measure and objective! It can, please, not be,
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e4917	Ladies and gentlemen, come to the conclusion. Your speaking time has already expired.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e4932	It cannot be that Europe is carrying the burden alone. Everyone has to participate, especially the US and China. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e4959	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Kogler. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e5001	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! We are quite impressed by how detailed and literally you study and comment on our press conferences and the reports that follow. [[Abg. Lopatka: We still take you seriously! Let's take you seriously.]] However, if you had read it sufficiently and meaningfully, especially the previous speaker of the ÖVP, you would probably have understood what I am trying to explain to you once more, and everyone else, namely – which is, by the way, an offer to the head of government, also to Chancellor Faymann and to you – that you, Mr. Federal Minister and Vice-President, are only constantly surrounded by the wrong advisers and are obviously also happy to be surrounded. [[Abg. Lopatka: No insults!]] [[Call the ÖVP:Oye! Oh, you!]] [[towards Vice-Kanzler Mitterlehner]] [[Abg. Lopatka: But this is nice, friendly!]] Because this location strategy, which you have been talking about, is certainly good at it, because of course we are still talking about it, is now bearing the logo of your ministry. [[Inter-remark of Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner]] [[The speaker shall keep up-to-date a document entitled ‘Location strategy for direct businesses’.]] That's the first one. There you can't pretend to be all this from somewhere else. Whoever's in there, we'll get in on it right away. But first of all to the ÖVP and also to you, Mr. Federal Minister, because you yourself brought the party policy – the supposed at least – of the ÖVP here from the government bank and once again accused the invention of the eco-social market economy for yourself and so on. Look, you have the impression that this group here is only more made up of Hainburg fighters and Hainburg fighters, that they all knew everything very well. It is certainly true that in the 1970s, the ÖVP has always understood that nuclear energy is the wrong way. [[Abg. Fekter: Right!]] [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the ÖVP.]] It was certainly so that you had already understood everything in the Hainburg discussion – quite exactly, with certainty! We have the impression that the whole ÖVP club is a single partnership of the Hainburg Association. You can make that up with yourself. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But now to you, Mr Mitterlehner, and to the people you are discussing here, and to the role of Austrian economic policy. If everything were as eco-social as you say, we would already have a completely different tax structure in that country. That's a special class retro ID! Furthermore, since the 1990s, we have been falling ever further, as far as the share of environmentally motivated taxes is concerned with those of labour costs. They're just watching that. We have the same thing on all international issues, where your double strategy – and therefore the terms “myth” and “lying” are not wrong at this point – is always expressed. Mrs Brunner is going to deal with this. Austria is again the braker and the objector of payments to the international climate protection funds. Today, the first page of the “standard” – read at least that! It's the same thing everywhere when it comes to this. At TTIP it was the same thing: They tell the public with the Federal Chancellor something, and until this finally arrives in Brussels, there is a need for massive pressure from the opposition. This line is not credible! Just as little if we look at who really has the advice and the saying here in Austria. There are already a few special experts and, above all, I have to stick to the male form – experts, for example, Dr. Richard Schenz – who has recently shown himself particularly with modern industrial policy proposals – the Mr. Franz Wohlfahrt von Novomatic – wonderful! – the entire representative of the ÖIAG. Here I come to speak briefly on your immediate spheres of influence: We still have Mr Siegfried Wolf at the head of the ÖIAG. Do not say now that the Federal Government or the SPÖ-ÖVP majority in the National Council has nothing to do with this! If you hear about renewable energies, then we are in the Kasperlland. And this is the chairman of the Austrian public industry! It's a shame that you haven't done it yet, that this man has been gone for a long time! – These are all your industrial policy influences! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Let us turn the spear around, because you have called Mr Eder von der Voest. Yes, the voest is a success story! It has been accompanied by the Court of Auditors for years and decades. They produce efficiently! They produce environmentally friendly, as far as is just going on in this industry, of course. That's not the point. [[Abg. Strache: They pay €25 million for this! Penalties for the most environmentally friendly steel production!]] In Upper Austria, we can see how Rudi Anschober's policy affects itself. This is about a forward industrialization – and not a re-industrialization, as you always say. That's exactly the difference: Forward instead of backward! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Similarly, we have it in German federal states, see Baden-Württemberg: Baden-Württemberg is green and makes the state-of-the-art industrial policy of all Europe. And here you want to explain to us with your retro consultants and unfortunately also retro delegates where it goes?! – No, the Greens are the only ones – the only ones in this House – who stand up for it, fight for it, and also have the expertise that the environment and the economy are getting under one hat. That is why it is in the future – or there will be no future!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e5153	The next item is Mrs. Klub Chairman Dr. Nachbaur. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e5175	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Dear viewers on the gallery! Dear taxpayers! Unfortunately, as we know, in Austria we now have a sad record unemployment. There are as many people without work as never before. We also know that we need a healthy environment. We must all be interested in this – no matter what we make professional, where we come from – because we all breathe the same air and drink the same water. But the very first concern of every individual is: Do I have income? And how can I feed my family? In other words, we need jobs first and foremost, private jobs. The State cannot create jobs. But it can create framework conditions that attract investors into our country who invest here and create jobs here – or it can create such framework conditions that as many companies as possible migrate and we face enormous unemployment. Austria is still a very strong industrial location thanks to God, although, unfortunately, more and more companies, especially those who can afford to go elsewhere, because, first of all, labour costs are simply too high, second, the environmental costs are also getting higher and more complicated and the energy costs too high. Our industrialists are certainly right to remain on the line through ambitious EU and Austria climate targets in global competition. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Austria is a pioneer here. Whenever it comes to EU rules, we are really model students who meet all EU rules. I believe it is important to be aware that our government is primarily representing the Austrian people and that we are only second-hand members of the European Union. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Bitch.]] If the environmental rules discussed here were to apply worldwide, they would not be a problem at all, but if they were only applicable to our industry, if only to the European and Austrian industries, then we would shoot ourselves out of competition and often leave the companies no choice but to look for other locations. We already have such an anti-performance policy in Austria, and now there are these over-ambitioned climate targets and CO2 certificates. This is the next tradable bubble, behind which there is no real value at all. If companies migrate and produce where lower standards apply, it is even worse for the environment, climate and sustainability, with the only difference that jobs are lost here. Our domestic industry is so exemplary. Many of the companies are high-tech and are an engine for environmentally friendly growth and state-of-the-art clean technologies. The developments that come from our country, from our industrialists, also help companies in other countries to produce environmentally friendly and sustainable, and we can be very, very proud of that in Austria. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I would also like to use this opportunity to thank the many industrialists who invest here, who produce environmentally friendly products here, who develop sustainable solutions and thus act exemplaryly. Thank you! [[New condolences with the Stronach team.]] I wish this positive spirit if we talk about environmental policy, because our industry must be part of the solution. We can only remain at the forefront of innovation, however, for all areas, but especially for technical progress when it comes to clean and environmentally friendly solutions. Environmental protection is very, very important, but now that we have been in the biggest economic crisis since the Second World War and this is not over for a long time, it is at least the completely false signal to put the industry into chains through unrealistic and, above all, in the implementation, far too expensive regulations. I've said it before: If we lock up the EU as a whole, stop the operation of all industries and abolish traffic, then it will be worldwide by 10 percent less CO2 – that is, by 10 percent who come from Europe – but with great certainty it is much more when produced elsewhere. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] What are we to live on in Europe? I doubt it's the so-called Green Jobs, I'm more afraid that for every Green Job that's being created here, a few normal jobs are lost. I would like to conclude by saying: Environmental pollution is a global problem that needs to be solved globally. What does not help anyone is to shift production to China or elsewhere, where it is still much more environmentally harmful. Where it is produced, chips fall: In Austria, this God is very clean – everyone who understands something about economy, Mr. Kogler, also Mr. Wolf.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e5278	The next item is the speech by Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e5299	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm quite impressed: You have a lot of things to do, especially from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. If you hear your closed chatter, you could get caught up in fear, it's quite impressive. [[Abg. Lopatka: They confuse us with the NEOS!]] I think the discussion is important in terms of the environment and the location lie. Without the environment there is no future, and this is a sustainable topic, but I think that the diagnosis, if we compare it with the economic indicator “NeuWInd”, which NEOS presented, shows that there is very little to notice about renewal and forward development at the Austrian site. Austria, I believe, is a world champion of the past and is also trying to be European champions here by always bringing out all the old examples. In my opinion, however, the government is behind expert committees, and they are not bringing anything further. The expert commissions, especially as regards the location, are a disaster, such as an expert commission to the ÖIAG. The hypo-desaster is towed away, and even there is actually the stagnation culture clearly and clearly pronounced. But believe me when I talk about the location before I come to the environment: What about, where does it need more and where does it need less? I've been talking to companies and entrepreneurs in the last few days: They need a clear tax reform for a good location policy. In this respect, I think, I have to ask: Where is your competence, dear ÖVP, when you speak of a tax reform, but don't implement it? Where is your competence when you talk to companies who say: We do not find apprentices, we do not have training, this education system has gone wrong for decades and our representatives in the economy have not even changed it in politics!Unknown term type: "%s".? This is, I believe, one of the most important elements of sustainability. When it comes to sustainability, we also build debts for the next generation, instead of minimizing these debts. We'll give them a backpack. Do you think that's sustainable? In principle, I think that is the wrong way. We also have the problem and the subject matter when it comes to innovation and research. Where is there an innovation approach, where is there something going on when Mr Matznetter speaks of "our companies"? I don't think that's your business, but that businessmen are on and on their own, and I am also very pleased that we have really innovative companies. We were with one who spent 19 percent of his research budget yesterday. We also want to find an argument in the approach where the trip should go. If we start from the environmental aspects, Mr Minister, I can only add one point: It's also kind of a raw material alliance. What happened to this one? There is nothing in this respect at all. Is this one? Has it been postponed? We do not have a report in this respect, but I think that the information is very important here too. Before we take care of the very important environment, I would like to say once again: We need a tax reform in the sense of: less, simpler, fairer! This will make it easier for companies to survive! And we also need a different education policy. There are companies that say: We only have more maturants and no longer find apprentices. - Why is that so? How are you going to do that? What are your approaches? They actually have nothing but a planlessness and a delay culture in this respect. So it cannot continue in this local discussion! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e5342	The next item is the report by Mr Wenninger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e5363	Madam President. Minister! High house! In principle, it is gratifying to be able to discuss an environmental issue with the Greens once again. This was not necessarily the central issue of the former environmental party in recent months. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: The hypo has got us so busy!]] In terms of content, we are probably not so far apart, especially as far as Mr Kogler is concerned – with all criticism of the wording and criticism of his discussion papers. But I would like to refer to the work programme of the Austrian Federal Government. I'd love to give it to you! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek.]] Yes, but this is the work programme of the Federal Government, and in the environmental chapter sustainable economies are centrally formulated. On page 35 you will find ten very concrete projects, the implementation of which this Federal Government has undertaken for this period to strengthen the economic location through sustainable economies. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Brosz: How many have you implemented?]] Of the ten projects, two have been implemented, Mr Brosz! We are at the beginning of this period, and I would like everything to be implemented with such a dynamic! In any case, I'd like to give you the work programme to read! A second point: I would now like to focus on environmental promotion. There is currently a report entitled “Evaluation of the Federal Environmental Funding 2013”. – It sets out in detail the areas in which the Austrian Federal Government has invested in environmental promotion in the last 20 years and in particular in 2013 in order to save greenhouse gases, increase energy efficiency and promote sustainable economies. This is coupled with an increase in environmental quality on the one hand and with an enormous increase in the quality of life of Austrians and a massive creation and promotion of regional jobs on the other. Every euro invested in rural development in the country is a euro that benefits the regional economy. This is about the so-called Green Jobs, for example by installers and environmental engineers in the countries, regions and local communities that are highly qualified, and in this way, well-paid jobs are usually created. What I understand less is this green-blue alliance against environmental promotion abroad. Ladies and gentlemen, above all from the Greens! Eco-projects implemented by Austrian funds abroad are there to reduce global CO2 emissions, because, as we know, greenhouse gases do not stick to Austrian borders, and secondly, this export offensive is linked to a strengthening of the location of Austrian environmental technology. I would like to refer to two very concrete projects. One of these runs in Brazil, where Austrian technology and Austrian investment co-financed a Methangas combustion plant in a huge waste dump. That is, Austrian export companies have exported environmental technology and managed new orders from it, while at the same time improving the environmental situation in Brazil. Another example is investment in Bulgaria, namely 37 climate protection projects in the area of thermal renovation of public buildings and biogas use projects in Bulgaria. These are export success, and this will be followed by further orders, which will ensure long-term Austrian jobs in the country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Last point: There is always a discussion in this Parliament about the ÖBB. This has been a little bit over the past few weeks and months, but this ÖBB bashing appears again and again. If we discuss e-mobility, I'll hold it: The largest provider in this Republic in terms of e-mobility is the Austrian Federal Railways, and in this area the Austrian Federal Government invests €2 billion annually. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress once again that environmental promotion not only makes sense of climate policy but also secures Austria's economic location in the long term. I would be glad if the Greens would go this way with us! I remember Jürgen Trittin in the German Bundestag, who stands firm and says: If we want the energy transition, we also confess to the expansion of renewable energy on site, where perhaps citizens' initiatives are critical of wind farms and biogas plants! And Jürgen Trittin also says: We also confess to the development of the line. If you want the energy turnaround, you have to implement it completely. Social democracy invites you to take this path! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e5431	The next item is the speech by Mr Hoefinger. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e5453	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I can also warmly welcome the students of the fourth class of the New Middle School from Frankenmarkt, who are visiting us today. [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Environmental policy is local policy, environmental policy is labour market policy and economic policy. All in all, that means: Environmental policy is a policy of opportunity, and these opportunities must be recognized by people, by the economy and not least by politics itself, and thank God many have recognized these opportunities in recent years. Together we have achieved many goals through an open interaction of these forces, the citizens, the economy and politics, and it has been possible many things. More than 72 000 applications for environmental support were approved in the years 2011 to 2013 alone, and a funding volume of more than EUR 1 billion was distributed, causing an investment volume of more than EUR 5 billion. Thank you very much for this also to Niki Berlakovich, who was in charge of these questions at the time and put a lot on track! Only from this area have 62,000 jobs been created or secured in Austria, and it was important to make these investments at an economically difficult time when the trend has gone in a completely different direction. It is also gratifying that in Austria we can really achieve the climate targets ahead of us. The 2020 climate target is tangible because we have been able to reduce emissions by 13.5 percent since 2005. Ladies and gentlemen! I am one who likes to ask for more when it comes to the use of renewable energy, which wants to achieve climate targets more quickly and much more. I'm one who exhorts and really fights for something, but I'm also a realist. Goals must always be ambitious, but they must also be attainable, because we know that someone who does not achieve goals will be frustrated, lose the desire, and perhaps even throw the towel at the end. That is to say, the economy must be required, but it must not be overwhelmed, because only if a balance between jobs, climate objectives, economic location and so on can develop can we achieve these objectives together. To the Greens: I will now give you an example. It doesn't necessarily have something to do with the industrial location right now, but I am hopeful that you understand this example so that we can also move it to other areas and sectors. Not least because of your overburdened demands, we have lost an important economic area. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler.]] Putten production in Austria is no longer self-sufficiency, it does not even cover half of what we consume, but we are currently less than 40 percent in self-sufficiency. These overloaded demands and requirements have led to the level of coverage – and this is measured in kilograms of the animals kept compared to the square meters in Austria – far lower than in our neighbouring countries, in the European Union or even in the rest of the world. [[Abg. Kogler: What laws have you passed for this?]] And we know what demands you make and what programs You have: They demand even more requirements, and they demand more stringent measures and framework conditions in this context. This means, however, that it will no longer be economically viable and production will continue to decline. This is exactly what we have to expect in industry, industry and other areas, when we implement your demands: There are losers on all sides! This example shows: There is no good being done, we are now importing Puten from Poland, Ukraine, Israel, the Far East, from all over the world, nor is the workplace and the economic location or climate policy done enough, because now we are driving these products across the world. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] With this in mind, we say: We need to adapt to neighbouring countries and to European standards. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: How about European animal welfare standards?]] And now we are at the point we are discussing today: It is also a question of balance, how we can jointly meet the climate objectives, the environmental idea, but also the economic location and labour market policy. I think Mr Vice-Chancellor has today outlined very well how this way will look and how this solution will work.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e5522	Member of the Commission. Winter, you're next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e5544	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Values listeners! Since I am the last speaker of the FPÖ, I would like to make a brief replicate of what has been said here. Mr. Vice-Chancellor, you thought that at Montanist University, people were dealing with “Clean Fracking”. – Faith Do you really think there is an open research if this research is paid and invested by the industry? – I can hardly imagine that! And that “clean fracking” is an actual impossibility, we have already discussed the environment committee more often. They said that eco-social market economy was a solution to the mystery. - No! This is quite simply an expression of economic and ecological illiteracy! If Mr Anschober is so much praised, I would like to point out that there is an infringement procedure in Linz due to the bad air in Linz. And with the Old Load Rehabilitation Act, it also has a little bit to do with you! If one speaks of thematic error – and I hear the word “owner” again and again – then I would like to say: The word “owner” is in some way in line with this request, but it is an owner of nature, because, ladies and gentlemen, we need nature, but nature does not need us at all, and this should also be borne in mind when we generally reject such requests! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Matznetter asked whether Austria had done so badly with this economic policy. - No! The industry has certainly not done badly, but the environment is certain! I'm convinced of that! If you are talking about Autocluster and say that the car export works so wonderfully, then I invite you to really come to Graz and pass the Magna plant! There are hundreds of cars that no human wants! That means: What are we doing? – We produce over! But what is the economy supposed to do? – The economy should contribute to the needs of people, but it should not produce to the extent that we must export our productivity abroad On steel industry and voest: Okay, it's good that we have such show industries, but if then colleague Lettenbichler thinks industry doesn't have the problem, But the solution is, then I have to question that already! Let him imagine what it would be like in 20 years, if we had only more towers and industrial plants in Austria and unfortunately there was no more field where we could grow our food! As Mr Glavischnig has said that fracking is one of the points she does not like at all about this proposal for a strategy, but the shift in working time is still very acceptable and disputable, then I would like to take this opportunity to say: I don't think so. I could not accept for myself that over a maximum working time of 60 hours under the motto: Well, we work then, if work is available! This is the first time that we have been discussing this issue. The same is true of the fact that “weekly rest time” is suddenly renamed “weekly rest”, which means that the weekly rest begins at 0.00 a.m. on Sunday morning. That means that Saturday will be an absolute working day. You just can't accept that! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The proposal of the parent age, which is mainly made by industry, I consider to be really totally family hostile, because if one considers that the parental age now shifted to a seven-year-old child is suddenly shifted to a four-year-old child, then one can imagine what is actually behind this thought! Somehow this concept – even if it has not yet been decided, but it will most likely come in some form – seems to me like the little brother of the TTIP. What are the forecasts for the TTIP? – We are forecast – and this idea is not from me, but from an article from the “Press” – that 600 000 jobs will be lost in Europe by 2025 and that everyone will have a highest personal income loss of € 165 to €5,000. So: Industry is okay and beautiful and good, but that can't be the approach, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In my opinion, the approach is an ecological circular economy rather than a plump of pure economic growth. That's the approach! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hammer.]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! I am very happy to take note of your protests! I would like to make a second of my precious time available to you and ask you a question: Do you know the “Think-mal-principle”? – First think and then talk! But many are under “Think-mal-protection”. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] To the Greens, my last sentence: David Rockefeller was also the one who worked for feminism and gender, and David Rockefeller also brought this idea of gender and investment into the economy. – Dear ladies and gentlemen! We just don't want that! We see that this is a desperate attempt to generate economic growth. And there is simply no such thing, because in a finite world there can be no infinite economic growth.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e5662	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Brunner. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e5683	Madam President. Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Energy! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Seers here in the house and also at home! In all the discussions on locations, difficulties and problems that exist, it is, I believe, important to hold something in this debate: Climate change is taking place and climate change is necessary. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Every person who lives on this planet today, and every person who will still come on this planet, will be affected by climate change, some of which are so massive that they are fighting for survival even today. Since the beginning of September, when the Austrian progress report was first published, we know that Austria will also be heavily affected by climate change. This is not only about opportunities that we can use in relation to climate protection, but also about the preservation of our livelihoods! Finally, the global climate, the International Energy Agency, which is not an environmental organisation, and the World Bank have warned against anything other than targeting climate protection. No one can imagine how the world will change if we fail to achieve climate objectives, and no one can imagine what it will cost us. And that's not an alarm, these are facts! Rather, it is alarmism when it is precisely in such difficult times when it comes to dealing with these problems, threatened with unemployment or emigration, and tried to insure people. – I think that’s a complete misrepresentation! That's why we asked for this current hour because we're here in front of changes. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would also like to make this clear to the people once again: It is not a single operation because of too much climate protection migrated. Carbon Leakage doesn't exist! There are international companies that have locations in other countries, but if you have an international location, it is not a deportation. I mean, this difference should be known by an economic party! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hammer.]] It is even – on the contrary – so that the industry has benefited from declining electricity prices created by the energy transition and the industry has been excluded from many conditions – keyword: Certificates – thus also benefited in connection with climate protection obligations. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fekter.]] I don't want to say apologise that there can also be difficulties – Carbon Leakage was addressed – but then we talk about these difficulties! The answer cannot be that we do not make climate protection. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If you look at the facts – and I find it negligent to close your eyes, especially with regard to the people who are already fighting for survival – then you will see: The world is changing. We live in the 21st century. ==References== There will be massive changes, and changes can always have something negative but also positive. It is therefore up to us – especially to us as decision-makers – to decide: Let us do it, and do we react afterwards to the consequences, or do we act and actively shape these changes? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I think it is our task to ensure a modern industrial policy in this context as well. There are many industrial enterprises that have also joined in the run-up to the EU Council decision on the new energy and climate targets for higher ambitions in climate protection, precisely because European industry is more innovative than many others. This has always been the advantage of European industry, and that is why this industry needs a clear framework and there are opportunities here too. It would be our job to ensure that this industry also has clear conditions. I often experience at climate conferences – and it was mentioned what opportunities the Austrian industry has – that there are also opportunities for Austrian industry, for Austrian companies, that often takes account of examples. My concern and concern is that we are losing this pioneering role, losing opportunities for our economy, for our industry. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Austria is no longer a pioneer, which shows not only the failure of the climate targets, but also the sad chapter on climate financing. Everyone who has been involved in a global climate agreement knows that climate finance is the dealbreaker for a climate agreement. And the Austrian Federal Government is currently in the position not to keep its promises, commitments to developing countries, to the poorest, to those affected by the climate change that has caused the industrial nations, and not to transfer funds that these countries needed in order to protect themselves from climate change and at the same time to protect them from climate change. These payments are rejected by Austria. And with this, the Austrian Federal Government is buying that a global climate agreement does not come about. I find that negligent, unresponsible, and it's a shame. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And I call on you – and I hope, Mr Vice-Chancellor, you carry this on to the Federal Government, it is the responsibility of the entire Federal Government – that the Minister for the Environment will be given a mandate to pledge these funds until the climate conference in Lima. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e5801	Next item is the report by Mrs Weigerstorfer. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e5822	Madam President. Minister! High house! We've heard a lot now. Economics, the environment, and I believe you have also come to terms with it, no one has spoken against the fact that we have to do something about climate change in terms of sustainability, in terms of environmental awareness. We know that we consume too much energy to exploit the raw materials of nature too much. We know that we are sending too many emissions and that in the long term this can't go well, so it won't work. That means that we have absolutely no problem with knowledge, but what we have is clearly an implementation problem. We know the future forecasts, which are likely to happen if we continue to do so. The cost of climate change is not quite an insignificant sum, which someone ultimately has to pay. Nevertheless, we have actions again and again, where we need to ask. On the one hand, the Austrian government, the Austrian state, repeatedly uses the words that it supports the energy transition. And on the other hand, he also supports fossil energy, the climate killer number one – but also favours and thereby supports tax. So that's a way that can't work like this in the long term. Minister, perhaps a few words to you. You have referred to it: They have bowed a little bit to the desire of the population and say that fracking is now no longer a topic. But you're turning to Clean Fracking now. Even Clean Fracking is not a way for the future, because where is the sense of squeezing the last resources out of the earth? There are many, many other ways that are actually at hand. Clean fracking is therefore absolutely rejected. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and Greens.]] In general, weighing up the economy against the environment and making a decision or decision is, in my view, a completely wrong approach. At the end of the shoulder between the economy and the environment lies the possibility of turning around. And we know that very, very many companies have already realized that efficient handling is quite a more positive one and that there can also be an incredible competitive advantage hidden inside. So the close-up between the economy and the environment will be the challenge of the next few months and the next few years. Just like Green Jobs. As a result of the merger between the economy and the environment, Green Jobs are gladly led. There's a new success now. In 2012 it was 173 702 – a new record! And by the end of the legislative period, according to new calculations, it should be about 200 000. Green jobs are something good. What I'm going to look at a little more in the near future is the exact definition. We've researched a little bit here, and there we get very, very different messages. Green jobs are the future, but this must not be satisfied with the fact that it is the seller who simply clears the organic yogurts into the shelf. In my opinion, a very important issue in this area of economics and the environment is also the promotion of research and innovation, particularly in the area of resources and energy efficiency. Today China has been mentioned very often. China, for example, is much, much more, much more so than we are, in terms of research on electromobility. While we are constantly talking about continuing to force this electromobility, we are not even able to prepare a gas station network across the board. So that'll be the challenge of the next few weeks, months, years. Finally, I would like to address a future scenario. We are talking here about the closure of the environment and the economy. Who knows how long we can talk about it? If TTIP is implemented, we will not be able to talk much more here. I'm allowed to pick out a few scenarios. This will mean that the exports of fossil energy raw materials from the USA will be extended to the EU. EU dependence on imports from the USA will be increased. The government's ability to shape energy policy will be restricted with TTIP. Local programmes to promote renewable energy will be restricted. So: The end of the economy and the environment must be the challenge. This means that the government is ambitious in promoting appropriate framework conditions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e5886	Mr Pock, you are the next to speak. I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e5908	Madam President. Estimated Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! I would like to give a reply in advance to the statement, namely in two areas. First of all, on the field of industrial policy. For us NEOS is a clear goal to increase the industrial rate. As a bottom edge, we see the 30 more than the 20 percent. Reindustrialization is not a problem, for a totally banal reason: The industry will open the site there or there. And I think it is in the sense of the environment that high environmental standards open up industrial businesses in Austria instead of, for example, in Fernost. This is a classic theme where we have a win-win situation for ourselves and the environment. The second point I would like to address is the claim that Austria is not paying into the climate fund. That's just not true! We have fulfilled our commitments by 2013, but we have not yet fulfilled 2014 for a simple reason: It is next month the climate conference in Lima, Peru. There is further negotiations, and this is part of the negotiations. So I'd like to get things straight. What I missed in the discussion: We have heard a lot about local and industrial policy, but it has not been done at all by individual areas, which the Minister of Economic Affairs has also left out and which, of interest, the Greens have also left out. We have an efficient industry, which is undisputed, but the question is also: How do we deal with small and medium-sized enterprises, and where is the environmental opportunity there? – The opportunity in the environmental field lies in two main areas: the energy transition and the mobility turnaround. And I would also like to make a few points here. To the Energy Efficiency Act, which has been praised and mentioned several times, we can only say: A toothless paperman of bureaucracy has been created. We have called for a national energy efficiency fund where direct payments are made and the funds are distributed. This would have been much more pragmatic, especially for businesses and not least for administration. On renewable energy: The renewable energies now not only have the energy transition in mind, but they would also lead to further reindustrialisation, for a simple reason: A windwheel needs as much steel as many other materials. That means: We can also strengthen the industrial and economic location through the energy transition. Nevertheless, in many small areas – there are so often lip confessions – one is far from ready to make changes. I would like to give you an example: Multifamily houses in Vienna or in all larger cities cannot use photovoltaics. Why can't they use them? – Because, as it were, the connection in the house is still a monopoly. That means I would now mount photovoltaic panels on my roof, then I can't share them with my neighbor. It's classically only in single-family houses. There's a lot of need. We could thus supply more than 100 000 households in Vienna with energy. This fails simply and decisively at the will of the legislation. Another point is spatial planning. Spatial planning is not even assigned to a resort, but is located directly under the responsibility of the Federal Chancellor and is de facto divided into nine federal states. We now have some exceptions in terms of road construction, in the energy sector, in the transport sector, because in turn more road than rail. We need a uniform framework. Of course, countries can continue to work in detail in their competence. We need, however, a uniform framework for both energy policy and mobility policy, but above all for separation. If, as we know – and this is not about industry, but about rural areas – we build or seal 31 football fields daily, then the increased connection costs in the field of energy, in the area of mobility, which the taxpayer and the taxpayer also have to bear. These are all areas that you could implement step by step in the small step. But there is a lack of will and there is also a lack of spirit of fight towards the federal states. [[I should like to congratulate the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.]] The next big lever, which our Finance Minister Schelling has already mentioned, is the national financial compensation. Here, please build massive pressure according to a service idea and no longer per capita financing. In conclusion, I would like to say, especially in the direction of the Greens, that is what I have already said in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection: It is not about facing people and the economy, and then the environment, so to speak, as a metatheme and saying: How can we least harm each other?, but we people are the economy, and people have a right to a functioning environment. It works. The economy is not there separately. This is an essential point that you too must acknowledge. And we NEOS are not the representatives of the corporations, but of small and medium-sized enterprises. It cannot be assumed that a conflict is constantly being produced politically here, which in reality does not exist. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e5974	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[10:33:08]] Current European hour
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e5998	We're coming up to date now. European hours on the subject: ‘Bad Bank ECB: This monetary policy destroys our prosperity!" First of all, Mrs. Klub Chairman, Dr. Nachbaur, spoke. I'll give it to you and draw attention to it: 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e6026	Madam President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear guests and dear taxpayers! The EU is facing a huge debt crisis. Since Red-Black-Green agreed to the ESM, we have not only to solve our own debt problem in this country, but also those of other downturned countries. The EU consists of states whose population on the one hand is traditionally economical, including the Austrian population, and from other countries, which are more in the south, who regularly spend more money than they have. Interestingly, Sarrazin has given this reason for the fact that people in the colder countries have always had to collect wood and horde for the harsh winter, while the southern peoples have always spared this concern because of the warmer climate. In any case, it is clear that there is an inherent conflict of interest here within the EU that the diligent saving of one and the more open attitude towards money spending of the others is a clear fact. For one thing, inflation is saving, because they can easily melt off their debts, while that is a real financial disaster for the hard-working savers, and that is what we Austrians belong to. And since the debtor countries in the ECB have the majority, the savers are now simply gradually expropriated. The deeper we get into this debt crisis in the EU, the more scurrily the proposals for solutions are offered here. I would now like to say three: There is the bizarre plan of Mario Draghi on the part of the ECB to purchase large amounts of poison paper from the ECB. The ECB is now buying ramschane loans and putting the savers under pressure. The expropriation which has already begun with the low interest rate policy, which everyone who has a savings book has been able to experience the body – he can see how the money becomes less valuable – continues. In reality, this is the responsibility of our pensioners, because they are the ones who have the savings books. The money they have spent hard on their lives is simply becoming less and less valuable. In order to stimulate the economy now, new programmes are being purchased by the ECB, i.e. junk papers. These are so-called Asset Backed Securities, which are precisely these complicated poison papers that triggered the 2008 financial crisis. That's what I'm asking myself: Didn't those responsible learn anything at all? - They're pouring oil into the fire now. The worst thing is that the purchase of these scrap papers frees the large banks from risks to taxpayers. That's unbearable! [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and the FPÖ representatives.]] The purchase of such dubious papers is nothing but the next stage of escalation of a completely missing monetary policy. This is not the ECB's task. It mutates with such measures to Bad Bank. [[New congratulations to the Stronach team and the FPÖ representatives.]] All inconvenient loans and scrap papers from the real estate bubble in southern Europe and elsewhere are now transferred to the ECB, that is, taxpayers. The ECB must not buy junk papers at the expense of taxpayers! [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and the FPÖ representatives.]] The next bizarre proposal I would like to quote here comes from Christine Lagarde of the IMF. It proposes simply adapting the maximum level of government debt, which is now 60 percent fixed, to reality and raising it to 95 percent. What a brilliant idea is that? – One simply raises the contractually defined maximum debt to the actual circumstances. That's completely absurd! I can't do that! You can't print 100 000 € for every European and then hand it over to him without the money losing value at the same time. We must not simply let our hard money be devalued! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The third scurrile plan is from Emmanuel Macron, which is the French Minister of Economic Affairs. Macron says that €50 billion in budget savings in France is expected to be €50 billion in investment by the Germans. – This is probably to be understood now that the French like to save when the Germans buy their cars for it or something similar. But why should they? Most people, I think, like French cheese and French wine. But quite honestly, that already has a reason why Peugeot and Renault sell much worse than German cars. And even a French economic politician cannot defy the laws of the market. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] In any case, all these solutions are completely absurd and show that nothing has been learned at all. The ECB's desperate actions are all ineffectively puffed. Despite the fact that the financial sector is being flooded with more and more money and lowered interest rates, there is nothing to feel in the real economy. Why don't you ask any businessman if he's easier to get credit now, and he'll say, unfortunately, no. Now there is this unshakable belief within the EU that cheap money leads to higher bank lending, then to higher investment, to more jobs, to more expenditure – this old-fashioned Keynesian suffocation. But the problem is exactly this circular closing. If you don't know better, you just keep going. But only with a stable budgetary policy can we create an environment in which investment and employment can arise. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] On pump one cannot generate prosperity and on pump one cannot create jobs. If that were the case, then we only need to see that a Skylink airport is being built in every city in Austria as far as possible – and schwuppdiwupp will soon be very busy. But every reasonable person knows that it doesn't work. We need more market and less state intervention! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] What we certainly do not need is a 300-billion-€ package from Brussels, where no one knows where the money is to come from. Mr Juncker has just announced that he wants to start such a 300-billion-€ package, and as far as we know, there is again a new, so-called Special Purpose Vehicle in play. This is a very special financial structure, the ESM is also built after this construction: impenetrable, uncontrollable and highly speculative. Moreover, all these things are located in Luxembourg, and indeed Luxembourg and Mr. Juncker have been very present in the last few days, but not because of their tireless commitment to the “small” savers and hardworking people. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] I'm wondering, Is this new investment programme to finance a new tax pot, to set up a pot according to the model of the ESM, and if so, what kind of participation will the National Council have, or will we be left outside? – I would not be surprised, because this seems to have become the fate of the Austrian taxpayer: Fold hands, hold and pay gosh’n! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] Something more interesting has been decided: Last week, the European Banking Union was awakened in the German Bundestag. And it looks more like an inadequately-doped bureaucracy sample. But let's look at it objectively: Bail-in was determined, which is once gratifying, but it should be of course for every market operator that not the taxpayers, but the owners are standing right when a bank speculates. We finally need the discussion about too big to fail in Austria. We say that no bank should ever be so large that the taxpayer becomes extortionable to them. It is not the taxpayer's job to save Marode banks. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and the FPÖ representatives.]] Citizens must also be able to distinguish between speculation banks and commercial banks that support the real economy. Speculation banks should undermine their business with much more equity and should not be saved from taxpayers, no matter how large they are. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Bitch.]] There's a lot of things going wrong at European level. We are in favour of a strong Europe based on peace, fair competition and diversity, but not on an overregulated oneness which wants to congratulate us on debt from other countries, where we have our own debt problems to solve. We do not agree that the fundamental contractual clauses of the EU have been deliberately broken, the no-bailout clause being destroyed. That is to say, we Austrians are liable for the debt of other countries and the ECB is mutating to Bad Bank by buying unlimited government bonds, now the highly toxic papers that have just triggered the financial crisis, and are not ready to finally put an end to the uncontrollable transfer over the TARGET system. If this continues, we will surely end up in the joint deposit liability of the savers, in which the Austrian savers have to stand straight for the savers in Spain. This is misunderstanded solidarity and has enormous explosives for our still peaceful Europe in itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e6201	Mr Schelling, Minister for Finance, spoke on a preliminary opinion. Mr Minister, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e6222	Madam President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The task of the European Central Bank is to maintain price stability in accordance with the Statute. And the ECB is striving to avoid both inflation and deflation, because we are currently in the process of deflation in many European countries. I was in Italy last week for a bilateral discussion with the Finance Minister there, and in Italy the situation is already that way. Too high an inflation rate, as you all know, leads to high interest rates, weak investment and also to imbalances, especially in the social field. The purpose of the purchasing power is therefore also to be strengthened by the ECB's action, with the ECB's objective of about 2% of the inflation rate in the euro area. We're clearly below it. Austria is an exception with its inflation rate of around 1.6%, by the way, and those of most other countries are significantly less than 1 percent. Of course, according to the EU Treaty, the ECB is independent of political influence. This should remain the same, but what is required is – and we are doing so actively – that we should bring our opinion there, and to some of the things that we have brought in there, the ECB has actually responded. However, the ECB's mandate also states that it has to support the general objectives of the Union so that price stability is not at risk and that these measures also support price stability. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is extremely questionable whether the euro area would still exist without the ECB's stabilising measures. [[Abg. Street: Yes, yes, a success story of the Eurozone!]] I believe that this is already a very important point of approach for considering, considering and introducing these measures. Of course, it is true that Austria was also a profiteer of these protective measures, which were also applied to the States. We are internationally networked, and if we assume that six out of ten euros of our gross domestic product are generated by export and tourism, then this shows how this international network works and how important it is that we also produce this stability through the measures put together in Europe. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Of course, the joint protective signs and mechanisms have helped, and no one has answered the often asked question of what the alternative to the EU, to the euro, to the economic and monetary union. Now we all know that any such agreement also has weaknesses, but it is currently true that Austria, as a member of the Eurozone, benefits greatly from these measures. Contrary to fears, the inflation rate has not increased, and the ECB's action was not only in the interests of Austria, but in the interests of Europe as a whole. Of course, the challenges we face with weak economic growth are not just ours, but our whole Europe, even if we look closely at it, a global growth problem. From my point of view, therefore, two aspects should be particularly addressed: one is the question of economic growth. And in this context, I would point out that, at the initiative of Austria and Germany in the ECOFIN, a task force has been set up at the European Investment Bank to generate growth again. On Monday, Austria reported a large number of projects to the EIB, which are now being examined, and the EIB will decide which of these projects, which are partly cross-border. The belief that growth can only be achieved through public investment is a mistake in the current situation of European households, the debt policy of the countries. We therefore need public and private investment. For private investment, not only money, but also a future perspective and a climate positive for investment. And today's current European hour does not help to make investors feel that we are seeing the future positively, but we continue to be unsure so that private investment is not stimulated. As Minister of Finance, I also feel that in the budget I must give more resources for the payment of expenditure from the past than I can make available for necessary and smart investments in the future. Therefore, nothing goes by the way of the stabilisation of the budgets and the consolidation of the budgets. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Stroll.]] Those who do not want to take note of this measure should look at the development of those countries which had to make great efforts in connection with the structural reforms, not voluntarily, but externally imposed. We can ask the question: Do we want to act independently or do we want to take up external pressure, such as Portugal, Spain and other countries? Of course, the goal of the major central banks is to bring the weakening economy under the arms. Those who do not generate purchasing power will not generate jobs either. The low interest rate policy, which has now been driven, has, of course, advantages and disadvantages. The low interest rate is very attractive for the individual house builder, for companies or also for the public sector. At the same time, however, he also has flaws because this interest rate policy conceals and induces to rest and delay necessary reforms. I would already like to warn you of what it would mean in the debt situation of our country if interest rate policy went up. This would bring even more burden on future investment than it is today. We therefore have everything to do in our sphere of influence, and no one should argue out of national responsibility and look for the guilt of others. An aspect that is still important to me should already be illuminated: If you are talking about the ECB, and you can also criticise it, you must note that the ECB has responded to the requirements of the Fed, which began already in 2008 to reduce interest rates in the direction of zero. You can imagine what would have been done in the European Economic Area if the interest rates had been kept above: Our competitiveness would have been gone. By the way, the second aspect you have mentioned concerns the Fed, which has made it quite successful, namely that it has also purchased certain papers. It's not like, Mrs. Rebauer, as you said, that papers are being purchased here. There are Asset Backed Securities, which must be driven in a narrow risk filter, is the condition. These are simply structured securitisations secured by loans to the real economy. Such simple and transparent ABS have hardly recorded any failure rates even during the crisis, and the papers purchased by the ECB are only the secure senior tranches and not the equity tranches. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Reciprocating.]] I would like to point out the following: You may be right in your arguments, that may be all, I do not dispute at all, but let us stick to reality and truth, and do not run an entirely unfiltered uncertainty in the direction that the ECB becomes a Bad Bank. [[Abg. Post-Bauer: Look at what rating agencies say!]] Note that rules have been introduced here by the governors, including Austria. In very clear rules of the game, what must be done and what not. It's just wrong, and if you claim it five times, it's not more correct that you can buy completely. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] As interest rates are now so low, the ECB has to consider other measures, which is the logical consequence of them. These measures, which the ECB is considering, must be subject to strict rules. And especially Austria, represented by Governor Novotny, has demanded these strict rules as well. The questions that will arise: Is it possible to stimulate economic growth? What measures are being taken to stimulate economic growth? – If you look at the last political summits, G 20, ECOFIN and others, you can say now that everyone is on the right course: Yeah, we need to boost investment. We need this investment. And what's really interesting is: There is enough liquidity in the market, there are extremely low interest rates in the market and yet we are unable to boost investment, because we are unable to give a positive signal effect on the future so that companies invest more. Here we ourselves are required. I said yesterday in a discussion that I think it is a bit strange that there is a headline on the long-term unemployed: 111 percent increase. It concerns 15 000 people. That's 15,000 too many. If I say now that economic growth in 2008 we are going to decline, because next year we have 50 percent more growth, because the forecast has risen from 0.8 to 1.2 percent, then we would say: What kind of announcement is this, because 1.2 percent is nothing at all?! – I mean, we should send the signal again: It is now going to be thank God, hopefully, slightly upward! I therefore believe that the policy pursued by the ECB has helped. There are some measures that may have come too late, which may have been, perhaps one should have put some measure earlier, but overall one must assume that the Austrian economy has benefited from the measures put in place by the ECB. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e6311	We are going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants at the current European hour according to § 74b para. 2 in conjunction with § 97a para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 5 minutes. Mr Krainer is the first to speak. I'll give him this.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e6341	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Your colleague, Rebaur, you came out here and said you want more market, less state. – Now we have an independent ECB, and it does something you think is wrong, and the first thing you call for is almost state intervention. They come out here and say that in the south no wood needed in winter and therefore did not learn to save, but they would do so in the north. [[Abg. Rebaur: I said sarrazin says that!]] I have now looked at Eurostat's most recent savings rates, which is very fast on the Internet: Portugal: Saving rate 12 percent; Austria: 12,6; Netherlands: 10,7; Italy: 11,6; France: 15,2; Spain: 10.4. Do you explain to me where, as a result of the savings ratios, the line runs between Southern and Northern Europe? – What you say has nothing to do with reality! [[Abg. Reborn: It is undisputed that the southern countries need inflation and we do not!]] If you look at it, see: There is a difference between East and West. In Eastern Europe, savings rates are significantly lower and significantly more fluctuating than in Western Europe, where they are relatively stable. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stefan]] Between Northern and Southern Europe You hardly notice any differences in the savings ratio, at least if you make the effort not only to claim anything but also to really compare it with reality. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. The argument is different: the south needs inflation and we don't!]] I would ask you to speak something evidence-based and to reconcile politics a little with reality. What are the economic issues in the European Union? – Of course, one of the biggest issues is the question: How do we get back to growth? – We know that if everyone saves – when households save, industry does not invest, and public budgets – there can be no growth anywhere. But it is crucial to generate growth. There are many countries in the European Union that are on the ceiling, which have no other means of consolidating the public budget than to consolidate it. It would be crazy to demand that a country that has not been able to finance itself in part through financial markets and has therefore needed the ESM should now continue to raise its debt. That would be absurd. It is also true that Austria does not want to get into this situation at all, that it cannot be indebted, that is, the spaces are very narrow here. There are playgrounds that we should also use. I believe that we also benefit by not only saving but also investing from the public hand. And in consolidation, above all, attention must be paid to the fact that investments are also being made, because if everyone only saves, at the end of the day everyone will get deeper and deeper into this crisis. You have to invest to get out of the crisis. It is not true that we have a crisis for the first time that there has not been such a thing in the past. Many, it is believed, had learned from crises – for example, from the crisis of the 1930s – and recognized that the principle: It doesn't matter if a bank argues, it doesn't concern us all!, it's not the right way. The economic downturn in the 1930s was much bigger, much sharper, much more sustainable than the economic situation we have today. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] This means supporting system-related banks – the owners lose their money to 100 percent; the owners have always lost their money – is certainly the better than simply letting the banks go. [[Abg. Rebaur: There should not be any system-related banks at all!]] This is the system that is now being set up, with bank regulation being taken into account from the outset, that the taxpayer has to pay as late as possible and that others have to put their money on the table before, but it does not come to the pleite of a bank, because we have just learned from the past that it is not fun to have pleite banks that the bankruptcy of banks does not matter, but it has quite, very negative effects. [[Abg. Rebour: You didn't learn anything from the crisis!]] The second major point is tax policy. There are discussions in Europe – you have said that – completely right. What we have experienced in recent years is a tax competition that has brought an advantage to people who are very, very rich like your predecessor on this chair. He then pays his taxes in Switzerland and, of course, less here. [[Abg. Reproducer: Who has created nearly 14,000 jobs here? Have you created any?]] The second is that corporations operating in several countries have paid taxes at an amount that tends to be zero, or hold 1 or 2 percent profit taxes. Just because some of them do not pay their taxes in Austria, like their predecessors on this chair or like some corporations, it does not mean that schools, hospitals or pensions would be cheaper, but it must pay someone else, namely those who cannot escape, those who cannot simply go to Switzerland, those companies that cannot pay their taxes in Luxembourg or Ireland, but in Austria. [[Abg. Reborn: Have you also created a job?]] [[Abg. Steinbichler: A more primitive...!]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Steinbichler and Mr Lugar.]] That is why it is important to cooperate internationally so that all make their fair contribution. I mean, in Austria too, we must ensure that those who do not pay a reasonable contribution today, but who pay too little, pay more taxes – the keyword of millions of inheritances, million assets – and that, on the other hand, the taxes for those who pay too much today, namely the workers, are reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e6505	The next item is Mr Klubobmann Dr. Lopatka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e6526	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is not the first time that two schools of thought meet in the House during such a debate. Of course, we are still dealing with the crisis that led to massive turbulence in Europe and the world in 2008. There is one who sees the task of politics in making courage – to make legitimate courage! – and the others who want to win political little money by yelling fears. This will also be clearly seen by the speaker who is speaking after me, namely the clubman of the liberals. [[Abg. Blow: A hell-seer! A real magician!]] - No, no, I know you now. [[Abg. Stefan: Because you scared fears! You scared fears!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] The Stronach-Klubobfrau team has now experienced more support from the liberal ranks than from their own group, because there is a soul relationship. This was a continuation of Frank Stronach's election campaign today, who at the time spoke over and over again of the need for a “alpen euro”, a “north euro”. That is exactly what you are doing here today, namely the euro. [[Mr Neubauer and Mr Doppler.]] You then go into formulations that I absolutely cannot follow by putting to the ECB that it wants to destroy our prosperity – so your wording is here today in the current hour of Europe. – The ECB has done the opposite – that is what all experts say – and it has contributed to the stabilisation, I tell you. [[Abg. Reborn: She broke the laws!]] The phase in which you have seen the downfall of the euro is over. [[Abg. Rebaur: You broke the fundamental laws!]] – This is the crucial point. This world-class mood may prevail in your party, but in Europe and in the euro we really do not have this mood! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Postage: Check out the newspapers in Germany! The Merkel...!]] You must not close to the European Union from your party's inner lives. [[The speaker holds a page of the “New Free Newspaper” entitled “HC Strache: ‘We need a red and white-red lifeboat!’” in the height of a picture of a sinking Titanic like ship entitled “Europe – Brussels” and “Eurolines”.]] Klubobmann Strache took us from Ibiza on 23. August 2012 reported: “We need a red-white-red lifeboat.” The “Euro-Titanic” is just ahead of the downfall, out of the sinking ship! The picture showed it. - Just how long have we been sinking? ==References== August 2012? – So I’ve never experienced such a ship’s downfall, I tell you! [[Abg. Stefan: It's all right!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Thank God is the opposite of what you already prophesied to us in August 2012 when your headline just said: “Raus from the declining Euro-Titanic!” – Raus, you said, and we must have the courage to get into the red and white-red lifeboat with the schilling. [[Abg. Darmann: The Austrian population can't do that...!]] I'll tell you: If we earn six out of ten euros through export and through tourism, then this euro is of enormous importance to a small export-oriented economy like that of Austria. Your path would really lead to a fall, namely the decline in the high level of employment we have in Austria and the high export rate. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: “High level of employment!”]] [[Abg. Stefan:... in Switzerland it goes down the stream!]] – I tell you completely wrong what you represent here. Completely wrong! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Colleagues Rebaur takes its current Europe's hour so serious that she hasn't completely left the hall yet, but she already retreats to her economic and financial expert Lugar. [[Call the Stronach team.]] If we were to follow the economic and financial experts Lugar and Kickl, we would be really close to ruin. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] That is why I would like to tell you one more thing: After all, after these misguided lights regarding “Nord-Euro” and “Alpen-Euro”, which were put into the world by Frank Stronach, in the programme “In the Centre” – one to one such as the Freeman – they meant that the question was not how to call this currency, whether it was then an Austrian euro or Schilling. – So your formulation on 22. ==References== [[Abg. Reproducer: Mainly, it's a hard currency!]] All of this is going in the wrong direction. The right path is the one that the ECB also wants to take with these new measures to prevent Japan from becoming a European country, namely to avoid economic growth and to maintain a very, very high debt level. [[Abg. Reborn: That's exactly what we have...!]] - That's exactly what it's about to prevent. [[Abg. Stache: Just that Japan is better than us!]] – Do you know that the American central bank, the Fed, did just that, earlier than the ECB? [[Abg. They have shale gas, they can afford everything!]] The Fed did exactly what the ECB is now doing only years earlier. And as the United States is on the move, this is not bad for economic policy and the labour market. That is why I say to you: The decisive thing is the stabilisation of the budgets, as the Minister of Finance has said. We need this budgetary discipline and, at the same time, offensive measures for the economy. And the ECB is a guarantee that this euro will remain a strong, hard currency.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e6813	The next item is Mr Klubobmann Strache. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e6835	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Lopatka has just so to speak, as a prophet here, and he really wanted to make us aware in all seriousness: Everything's great, everything's fine! We have always celebrated it. We have no problems at all. We have no unemployment in the country. We have no tax and tax burden in the country. We don't have any debts in Austria. And we have no monetary crisis at all since 2008. No, it's all right! It's all great! We are probably not moving towards recession, as predicted, namely that there will be little economic growth. The recession denies Mr. Lopatka! [[Abg. Lopatka: The ship has been going down for two years!]] It rejects the monetary crisis, inflation development, the expropriation of savers, which has been taking place for years, where the Minister of Finance is always happy at the expense of taxpayers and does not compensate for cold progression. All great, all right, Mr. Lopatka! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Lopatka: But we don't have your downfall either!]] Mr Lopatka spoke and said: - What's the point? We have no inflation and deflation development! – After we both actually have! If you need a product today, it's expensive if you don't need it, it's cheap. In reality, we both have today! [[Abg. Auer: How can this be understood?]] [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] We have a problem, Mr Lopatka, and if you think that since the beginning of the monetary crisis 2008 everything is happy peppy and it would be averted, then, I must say, you are really unresponsible, because then you show that you are neither competent nor serious or responsible. And that's exactly what it's all about. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And this is also true of top economists who, of course, are rightly criticizing the eurozone in the form it exists today, such as the top economist Allan Meltzer, who is also quite critic of the US central bank. But the question is: What do we expect from a European Central Bank, in which today's former Federal Reserve bankers are sitting? In some cases, they make quite different political representations, as well as banking interests, perhaps American interests and dollar interests. [[Abg. Lopatka: Conspiracy theories! World downfall and conspiracy theories!]] That is where I miss European policy! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Today we are witnessing nothing but the next stage of the euro crisis. If we have been legitimately warning for years and demand that you respond to the crisis in good time and in good time to hope to get out of the crisis and not to dive further into it, then stand back and say we are running panic. What are we experiencing? . We are experiencing exactly what Mrs Nachbaur said today that today the European Central Bank controls those banks whose over-indebtedness it has financed through the purchase of lazy papers. That's nonsense! We're dealing with the fact that junk papers are bought up. That is, we have a development that ultimately someone like Sahra Wagenknecht from the party The left from Germany – no friend of mine, with whom I have no connection at all – has made a very good point. [[Abg. Kogler: Oja, a lot!]] It brings the following comparison in the “standard ” of 13th century. November: “This is like a food supervision that buys the Gammelfleisch restaurants and then shows them the Persilschein.” As a Marxist, Mr Krainer, you should finally say: There is something lazy in the state of Denmark – if you already like to quote “The Capital” so much, but then permanently make the supercapitalists in this development the wall. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Krainer:... Denmark! We're here in Austria!]] Something's wrong! The ECB is increasingly away from the task of a central bank to ensure the stability of a currency. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer]] Apparently, the European Central Bank and the Austrian National Bank ultimately see their main task in supporting Marod States and banks at the expense of local taxpayers. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Krainer]] That's what it's all about. Even now we are talking about minus interest rates for the supersparers who have been diligent and have invested money. You may continue to pay in the future if the money is on the bank and is not spent. Even that's already being discussed. Of course, we have a problem with this euro area, which we have mentioned from the outset: Unable to bring together different economies in a currency system. We have mentioned this from the very beginning. And even – as we have already quoted today – the American central bank critic Allan Meltzer says in an interview for the “world”, a division of the eurozone needs. We have called for this from the beginning, and you unfortunately keep pushing it aside from God, namely to push strong European economies into a currency zone and weak into another. [[Prolonged calls of the Abg. Krainer.]] That would be the possible rescue from this crisis, as we have it today. And that's exactly what it's all about. Then the Italians and the French and also the Greeks could devalue again, because they have no chance of getting out of this negative system. We are also constantly talking about low interest rates today. Great! Who can buy a loan today if he gets none from the banks despite low interest rates? God, I'm sorry! And we also need to talk about the Volksbank and some other banks in Austria, which unfortunately are in the room, that balance sheet counterfeits have taken place and other problems will still come to our attention. [[President Head gives the bell sign]] Yeah, there's a credit terminal. Because of the low interest rates you present so glorious, our businesses often don't even get any credit and therefore can't invest at all, not remain competitive for the future at all. And if we hope to get out of recession development sometime, they can't even benefit from economic growth.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e6998	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e7019	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! The findings of Klubobmann Lopatka were obvious: One would be on the Titanic, but she's not going under, if the others are on the dream ship, I don't want to diagnose; but I don't think that's the two think schools that's going on in this. Of course, politics has the task again and again and again and it is immanent to raise certain expectations and to announce the framework for action for the participants in the economy, the households and the manufacturing companies. My God, this is a nice classification now, but I believe that this current hour of Europe would be worth making a short trip through the various questions that exist. To this end, you have to have a club wife. We are grateful to you for perhaps at least being able to discuss these things at an important time, namely in the morning, at least by way of an approach and sketch. The role of the ECB: My God, look, the real question of the schools of thought we have among the economists, and there is no truth there. As a learned economist, I trust to say this also when Mr Lopatka is already conducting think schools. Then it will never be soluble. One has this analysis of the world as a whole and the economic processes in particular and therefore they recommend this course, the others observe the same and recommend that course – that is, once on the left, once on the right, and so is it, it is an ideological question. Left and right are not so wrong at all. Now you have to be able to deal with this in politics. And one of the most complex and complex things is certainly monetary and monetary policy, and thus the role of the ECB, which was adopted there. I would essentially follow Mr Finanzminister's statements on the monetary policy – most commendablely very material. This is a pragmatic approach. But what do we want in this situation? – It’s not that simple! The real topic was whether or not Ramsch is being purchased and whether it is bought or not. – Look, that's much more psychology than anything else. If you look closely, the ECB and so far we have not even lived so badly in the framework of the existing monetary and monetary system that the ECB makes announcements in the first place and often does not take these steps at all. So the shoppers keep themselves in bounds so far – if you are allowed to titulate it at all, because some of them already mean papers that have at least some kind of feedback. But I do not want to appreciate it at all, because, as I have said, one can look at it from this side or from that side. Mr Lopatka rightly described the year 2012. Then how did we stand in the spring? – Spain, Italy et cetera, there was Greece an occulation for the euro area. One can already say – that is, by the way, my attitude and was also that of the Greens in the 1990s – that this monetary union should not have been allowed to come together. But cutting apart and tearing costs a lot more now. This has happened; it is very difficult to break up at no cost. [[Abg. Podgorschek: This is like the Hypo Alpe-Adria: The longer you wait, the more expensive it becomes!]] But if we are already on the upcoming problem with Spain and Italy in spring/summer 2012: I think it was less the establishment of the ESM at the time, which brought the whole relatively positive on stage, at least along normal economic policy indicators, but it was especially the ECB's announcement policy at that time – they did not even do much then. [[Abg. Lopatka: The ECB!]] So you see, it's all a little bit more track and more complicated. But let us come to the real purpose of economics and approach – in my remaining two minutes stakkato-like – the real economy. There is still enough investment in Austria and especially in Europe. But it hardly happens, and that certainly has nothing to do with interest rates, but also with the expectations of investors. In that respect, I think the Stronach team would also be well advised to look at this part of the Keynesian analysis. There is nothing more to be done now if one goes down even further with the interest rates. Investors need confidence that something goes on. There is, of course, a need for the policy framework. And to do it would be enough in this Europe. We do not need to be faded in the labour and investment markets. If we look in particular at the necessary ecological re-control: What does not make sense and what is necessary in the southern countries of Europe? But we don't even get to these investments. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] And if, as a follow-up to the previous saying, I should like to say how important it would be to change energy and environmental policy, then I, Mr President, can point to the World Energy Outlook last argument, because it is also related to these issues which have just been proudly presented in Vienna. This shows that fossil energy subsidies represent fourfold of those in renewable energy. So there is enough re-control for real investment in the right direction, even in the real economy, if this is already so complicated with the money economy.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e7081	The next item is the speech by Mr Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e7102	Mr President. High house! My very dear television viewers! We have heard a lot today, many technical terms such as the ECB and ABS papers, and I believe that many cannot imagine much of them. Now I would like to turn to the television viewers and ask the question whether many of you recently – or the older ones perhaps even over the past few decades – feel that things simply don't go out like they used to. [[Abg. Podgorschek: They can't answer!]] In the past, it was that one of them deserved, the second partner sometimes stayed at home – wanted or not, that doesn't matter here – but in the end it went out. Both of them work nowadays, but it doesn't work out anyway. It is therefore not acceptable because a salary alone is already on the rise for rent, operating costs and ancillary costs. And, of course, there are many who ask themselves: What happened? There is technological progress that should normally create productivity and prosperity. There are salary increases that are supposed to be compensatory, so that the purchasing power is not lost, and yet it does not go out – even for small businesses. These have to work more and more. Talk to the people outside, they'll tell you, they somehow feel that it's getting less and less what's left! If we are already with the truth today, Minister, then tell us what this is about. It's inflation. Now, many will say that inflation is like a disease that affects themselves. You don't have much joy, but you can't do anything, you just have to go through it. – That’s right, inflation is a disease, but it’s a conscious illness. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Inflation is made by our money system, which is politically wanted and politically supported – why, I say – and acts like an extra tax. But people don't know they're being pulled out of their wallet. I can also quantify it. It is up to €20 billion each year. Each year, 20 billion € walk out of citizens' money bags, but not to the state – for that I would understand, the state is only a partner of this redistribution madness – they actually travel to the banks that have been authorized by the state to draw money from nothing. That's where the money goes. Banks generate inflation through money creation, the ECB supports this with the measures we have heard about, and the government is pleased because it is also involved in this fraud at a small percentage. That is exactly why today it is always said that inflation is good, it is good for everyone. But who's good for? Explain this to me! For whom is inflation good? For the citizens? Do you think that a citizen would have a problem if fruit and vegetables were to be reduced in exceptional circumstances? – You tell me again and again that you should eat fruits and vegetables five times a day. If this would finally become cheaper, then you might eat fruits and vegetables five times a day. But it won't be cheaper. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] You always say that deflation is evil, because deflation produces cheap goods. Where's the problem? – I can tell you: The only ones who have no joy with it is the state, because it is more difficult to repay its debts, and are, of course, the banks that then do not come out of inflation on devils and can put the profits into their own pockets. That's the background. That's why everyone always comes and says: For God's sake, the deflation! The deflation is not bad, if you have it under control, because then it finally gets cheaper. Many say: The economy, the poor economy! – I now call you a game of what you can see that this is nonsense. In about three weeks, Samsung's new cell phone comes out, Galaxy Note 4. It will cost about 700 €. [[Abg. Lightenecker: Is this a hidden advertisement?]] In one year it will cost 350 € – I am not a light-seen – that is, half, so deflation. Calculate what a deflation this is, how much then the goods will be cheaper! Do you know when Samsung sells the most? – When the device comes out – and not after a year! Explain to me why someone should wait with their investments because there is a one-, two-percent deflation! - That's bullshit, no one's gonna wait! The only thing that is going to happen is that the citizens have these €20 billion and even more really in the wallet, the state finally has to think about its debt and the ECB can no longer finance the banks. That's exactly what it is: Banks will be financed, nothing will be saved. Banks will be financed by enabling banks to continue lending, to continue creating money, to continue producing inflation and to put profits in the pocket. That's what it's all about! That's the background, and no one dares to say that. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] If we are already in the truth today, then we should finally address this truth.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e7178	The next item is the speech by Mr Hable. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e7200	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! High house! Estimated citizens on the gallery and at home in front of the screens! The policy of the European Central Bank is today the subject. I would like to remind you of how this started, namely in July 2012 with the announcement by the ECB President Draghi, that the ECB will do everything necessary to ensure the stability of the euro. That was highly controversial at the time, we approved it, and it worked. It has stabilized the situation. It remained particularly with the announcement. The ECB did not have to intervene. Whatever this announcement by the ECB has done is to create scope for necessary structural reforms. Now we have to look at ourselves: What is more than two years later, in 2014 the status quo? – There have been some reforms in some countries, but there has been far too little. The euro area is now characterised by stagnation, rising debt and record unemployment. And this seems to drive the European Central Bank to take further action because the original announcement did not suffice. Another measure is the purchase of papers, also directly from banks. There appears to be a disparity between opinions, which are papers, whether the junk papers or high-quality papers. Mr Finanzminister, you have said that quality standards have been taken into account here to ensure that there are no junk papers in the ECB's balance sheet. – Yes, that’s good to hear, but the question is of course: How will this instrument work? One thing is clear: The banks have no interest in getting loans, assets out of their balance sheet, which bring them profits. What they are interested in is clear: To get rid of problem loans, namely the lazy loans, the old burdens in their balance sheets. They are interested in getting rid of them. There is, of course, already a risk that this instrument will be used to address problems facing the ECB. We must pay very close attention to what is being done, because it is clear that one should not happen, namely that the burden – and we know this pattern from Austria in terms of hypo-alpe-Adria – will again end up with the taxpayer. Finally, the ECB has also been abandoned by policy. Responsibility will be transferred to the ECB, the necessary reforms have not been implemented; the necessary reforms have not been implemented, especially in the large Member States, Italy and France at the front. To all those who say that the solution to the problem is now to cut even more state money on the problem, so to speak: That is exactly what France has done, France now has a 57 percent expenditure rate. 57 percent of the total annual prosperity generated in France is now spent by the state. Nevertheless, or just because of that, there is a deficit of over 4 percent, unemployment is more than 10 percent. One thing is clear: This example from practice shows how it does not work. The ECB's monetary policy is necessary, but it is not sufficient. It is a drug against fever curves, even against strong fever curves, but it is not the solution, because it is not suitable and sufficient to ensure a structurally healthy economy. Mr Finanzminister, I have now heard with goodwill that you have said it hurts you if, as Minister of Finance in the budget, you are turning too much expenditure towards the past and less towards the future. We NEOS have drummed this from the beginning. We were the first movement that also committed itself in an election campaign to address the topic of pensions, early pensions. We are pleased when they are here on NEOS lines, but it must not only remain in these announcements, it must finally be implemented. I have come to the conclusion and would like to refer briefly to the announced tax reform of €5 billion. That's too unambitional, that's too little. This compensates for the cold progression since 2009. We need more relief from this, because we need to reduce the burden on households, because we need to reduce the burden on businesses, then investment is made, then jobs are created, and then the citizens in that country will again be consumed. The Federal Government has been called upon to act at last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e7258	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Greiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e7279	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In the first place, I welcome the students from the gymnasium Sachsenbrunn from the district of Neunkirchen to the visitor gallery – welcome to Parliament! [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the interests of the population, I believe that it is appropriate, serious and constructive to address the discussion about the ECB. The Stronach team makes false claims in order not to say it explores the world, but probably this is so if you are only surrounded by millionaires. In fact, what the savings book means is low interest rates is more favourable rates. This means that investors are encouraged to take credit, and that is exactly what we need. [[Abg. Reciprocating:! This is typical socialist!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] We need both public and private investments, and the turning point is, according to the ECB's recent reports, exceeded, credit is already consumed again. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Before I come to Austria, let me take a look at the European level! What is the ECB's objective? – The aim is to set up measures to stabilise at European level. Let us remember that the ECB has made a decisive contribution to the stability of the euro! Let us also think of the scared weeks and months when doubts about our currency have existed! What stabilisation measures are these now? - These are low interest rates. As mentioned above, low interest rates lead to increased investments, and numerous experts confirm that investment is the only way out of the crisis. At the EU Summit of Heads of State or Government, on 18 May, the European Parliament adopted a resolution on the implementation of the EU Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union. A 300-billion-€ package will be adopted on December, and an investment programme will be adopted. Monetary policy alone will not be enough to solve the economic problems in Europe. The challenges are much wider. What do I mean by that? – I address many of the areas of drastic unemployment, particularly the very high level of youth unemployment. I have a statistics from the Economic Policy Viewpoint – I can quote from it – and it deals with the development of youth unemployment between 2007 and 2013. In Ireland youth unemployment has tripled, from 9 to 27 percent. In Greece it rose from 23 to 58 percent, and in Spain from 18 to 56 percent. Investment in growth and employment makes sense and makes sense an industrial policy with a focus on green jobs in combination with investment in research and development, because these are measures that can be particularly effective against youth unemployment. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] What solutions do we have? . At European level, we need a common, agreed procedure to enforce, for example, a financial transaction tax. We need strict rules for the capital market, we need strong banking supervision. Financial transaction tax is a means of making public revenue available to the public budget. It is a means of combating speculation, it is a means of ensuring that the producers of the 2008 financial crisis also have to make their contribution to the reduction of debt and ensure greater stability in the financial sector. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I should like to pay tribute to Mr Schelling, the Minister of Finance, who was most recently very well-positioned at an ECOFIN meeting. He pleaded for a broad involvement of derivatives in order to finally achieve a broad basis of assessment. It is also positive that the Social Democracy of Austria, together with Social Democracy in Germany, has taken a direction to enforce a financial transaction tax and is now also trying to get France and Italy into the boat. Now I'm coming to Austria. What can Austria do? – Austria can lobby, Austria can demand reforms in Brussels and proceed with a tax relief for workers, namely, insofar as income is relieved, so that the working people will be left in the wallet again. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Darmann: Do not talk, but act!]] It is high time that the social imbalance is offset so that I mean the high burden on labour income and the low burden on assets, capital and capital income. The Socialist Group strongly advocates the taxation of assets, and I do not mean the owners of a house or an apartment, I really mean the highest percentage of the population – it is high time they made a contribution. [[President Head gives the bell sign]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let us also tackle these common challenges together and constructively! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e7375	Mrs. Dr.ck has now come to the fore. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e7397	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) On behalf of my Lower Austrian colleagues, I can also warmly welcome the guests from Gmünd. Welcome to Parliament! [[General condolences.]] If a party such as the Stronach team invites to this debate, which has not taken place in the European elections, because it feels that country elections are important, and therefore cannot and does not want to join at European level, I believe that it is already suffering its credibility and competence in economic and other European issues. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Undoubtedly, the economy in each Member State is at a challenging stage – markets are weakening and geopolitical crises are also counterproductive to growth. The fact is, however, that: Those who deny Europe and who reject the euro refuse global reality. Yesterday, in the European event, we heard that the population in Europe is shrinking – we are only a small proportion, as measured by the world population. The dramatic thing is that the social product is falling, compared to the global social product, and that is why the sense of the house must tell us that we must do everything we can to advance European integration, because as an individual state, our importance in the promille sector would move. [[Abg. Neubauer: How do you imagine that?]] We have a choice either to swim up with Europe or to go down without Europe. The European Central Bank has a central responsibility in the EU to ensure price and currency stability. I also believe that the ECB's recent takeover of supervisory functions is an essential step towards the implementation of the European Banking Union, as it provides for the stabilisation of the European financial system and the creation of an efficient supervisory and resolution structure. In this context, of course, it is important that there are no double-tracks with FMA, OeNB, ECB, but that is certainly what Mr Finanzminister Schelling will look at, because the banks have already charged enough red tape and they also have enormous burdens on the tax side. In order to boost the economy, the ECB has launched this – undisputed – securities purchase programme, which aims to re-establish the rising credit flow and keep inflation at 2%. The interest-rate instrument is exhausted, we know, and I believe that in this context the preparation for the banking stress test probably also played a non-significant role, which also prevented the lending. I am less concerned that through the securities purchase programme, the ECB is changing to a Bad Bank, because the ABS papers are present only to a small extent in the ECB balance sheet amount and the credit rating agency Fitch has also confirmed a minimum risk to the papers in an analysis. Instead, I wonder whether it is really a useful instrument for stabilizing the economy. It's not going to be enough alone, because fact is: As long as the entrepreneurs have no confidence in the future, they will continue to hold back their investments, and there is little use in expanding this volume. [[Abg. Honey: Why is that so?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Höbart.]] In particular, you are called on by the opposition parties to contribute to an atmospheric turnaround, as in addition to the ECB's monetary policy, we need a positive start-up mood for economic recovery and, of course, structural policy measures in the countries, which has already been tailored by the Minister of Finance. Reforms are the commandment of the hour. We have seen that the crisis countries have had to implement reforms under great pressure and are now among the most successful in reform. France and Italy should also take an example, because they must take their own destiny and not leave it to the ECB. Growth-oriented deficit reduction is the challenge and task for all Member States. And even if the financial “desirable to you!” on all the topics of the opposition parties is counterproductive for our fiscal consolidation, our government is on a good, solution-oriented path, both the Minister of Finance with regard to the tax structure reform and our Minister of Economic Affairs with his driving programme for economic recovery.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e7466	Next word: Mr. Dr. Hübner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e7488	Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I am only surprised that we have been living in the best possible worlds for 14 years, namely the Eurozone, why all these problems have arisen, why we need all that, why we don't have any confidence, why we need investment packages, why we don't get entrepreneurs to invest – and, and, and. Strange! I might give you a tip. The ECB's policy, as defended by the Minister of Finance, is correct when I put together the economic ceilings in a code that has only one section. And that means: The main objective of our policy is to preserve the euro. - That's right. Then I also agree with the Minister. But if I do not, when I say that, the most important objective of our economic policy, our economic policy action, is the interest of the economies and thus the interest of citizens and taxpayers, then it is not true. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Minister, what has the Eurozone brought us since 2000? – Simply put, populistly said: a lotless situation. Why loose-less? - Because everyone who's involved is losing. Once again, the debt countries of the south, i.e. the poorer countries affected by the crisis, lose no question. They don't get on their feet. They cannot solve themselves from the euro-currency that is too hard for them. They cannot make such dramatic cuts in the social system and the standard of living for domestic policy reasons in order to become competitive. They are faced with an ever-increasing debt, with an ever more uncontrollable debt mountain, with a disassembly of their social systems, with a lack of perspective and with a devastating unemployment and a further exodus of their population from the economic cycle. Catastrophe situation! What do we have of those who are essentially the crediting nations who are not so deeply affected? – We are in a stagnation phase and a global stagnation block with these states. It does not stagnate the world economy – the world economy has no crisis, that was 2008, but that has been a long time since, we already write 2014 – but it stagnates the euro zone and the countries surrounding it. We are in a phase in which, due to the zero interest rate policy, we expropriate the middle class by not allowing the savings assets to be interested and gone-in and by seeing on the other hand the private risk precautions that we have propagated for decades melt down. So we expropriate our middle class. We lower our standard of living. We are in a situation where we have entered huge liability, huge liability, which has not yet been hit by today, whether it be the EFSF or the ESF, that is, the special vehicle with which the financing of the southern states has been made, but also within the framework of the ECB. I have now looked at what the ifo institution estimates of slumbering liabilities in the ECB. There one assumes about 1,450 to 1,600 billion €. That is, because we have about 2.8 percent of the ECB's share, our risk package in there is about 40 billion. The whole policy, which I have described, in the south caused us the expropriation of the middle class, the smelting away of its savings and private pension schemes, has also brought us liability risks of over €40 billion. I am not talking about the targets2 commitments, I am not talking about these accountable ways of further financing the southern states within the euro area. Now, one thing remains: Who's the winner? There are lots-less situations, there is then a balance, and anyone wins. Yes, if there is at all a winner in this bizarre lot-less situation, then it is of course the international financial market, then it is the large international funds that have invested in banks and in government bonds and which have remained a debt cut, a loss by state bankruptcy, by devalued government bonds as a result of currency change and so on. We've financed them. I don't know if that's the point. Thankfully, the Minister himself has at least made it clear that he is behind what he has said to defend politics. He said, after all, that this zero-zin policy, which we are doing, masks the situation and drags away reforms. – Perfect! In fact, it leads to what Mr Lopatka very rightly called “Japanisation”. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] - I'm already done! – And we are not preventing this Japanization with this policy, but we are doing it. If I can only remember – that's what I'm done with: Japan's national debt in 1996: 63 percent, 2014: 249 percent, deflation and stagnation. Is that the way we want to go? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e7564	The next item is Mrs Lichtenecker's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e7585	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Those who deal more closely with economic policy know that it is one of the major challenges to develop a smart and forward-looking economic policy. Yes, Europe and Austria are in a difficult situation. Unemployment rates are very high, especially among young people, and action against them is also quite a major challenge. On the monetary policy of the European Central Bank. Draghi thinks of buying government bonds with the aim of increasing the amount of money. The question will be whether, at the present time, where interest rates have a historical low, the desired effects will actually be achieved. We have experienced the situation in Japan for decades that the interest rate is as low and yet the economy does not develop as it is actually desired. In this respect, one can also look at it with a certain scepticism. I believe that both in Europe and in Austria, there are other reasons why the situation on the labour market is so difficult, and one of them is that expectations are skeptical. It is rather an uncertainty, fear and hesitation to feel instead of courage, confidence and action, and this is also a topic for us in Austria. And, of course, if you have one part of monetary policy, then you have the other part of classical economic policy, fiscal policy. Of course, it will be a major issue to reform the tax system. Yes, it is about reducing additional wage costs through an environmental and social tax reform. This will be one of the major challenges to achieve appropriate labour market effects. And, of course, it will be a matter of increasing the incomes of the middle shifts and in particular reducing the low and medium incomes. Yes, these are the big challenges in the tax field, and then it will be about the right impulse. And the right impulses will be called: Invest in the future. Investing in the future means investing in modern infrastructure, broadband technology, of course in climate protection and environmental protection and, most centrally and as an important basis, in education and research. That's all right with us. When it comes to courage and confidence in the economic sector, of course it is also about framework conditions for companies. We know that the bureaucracy, as it is currently being designed in Austria, is a milestone for small and medium-sized enterprises and for the EPUs. Here we need an offensive to debureaucratisation and also to create better framework conditions. An up-to-date example: The companies pay €36.4 million in 2013. For what? For default interest to the SVA. Mr Minister, this is an area where there is an urgent need for action. This is an immaculately high default rate of 7.8 percent. The funding rate at the financial office is 4.38 percent. And if you put your money on the savings book, you get something around 0.125 percent. That means: Here too, there is a need for action that has been dragged away for years. To act here would also mean a form of serious taking, of respecting. And when it comes to taxation and Europe, there is the greatest need for action in the taxation of large corporations. Yes, Amazon, Google, Ikea and as they all are called, they are directing the world, they find tax loops. And this is an increase in all small and medium-sized enterprises that work skillfully and engagedly. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Kogler: Right!]] It is precisely here, Mr Minister, that we should act to dry these swamps and justly distribute the tax burden. When it comes to monetary policy today, interest rates and financing of enterprises, then the great challenge is finally to create a suitable framework for crowdfunding and crowd investment models. Here we in Austria have been in arrears for years, far removed in the international comparison. Ladies and gentlemen, we know that financing for enterprises is a great stumbling block, which in any case has to be eliminated as quickly as possible. In this sense, Minister: Courage, confidence, action – this is now required.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e7628	The next item is Mrs Schenk's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e7649	Mr President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to refer briefly to my previous speakers, in front of the government parties. Because if you listen to this – here's what you're saying: Krainer and Lopatka – then you can gain the impression that they are already in the early winter sleep when they are so much out of here. One says: There's no crisis at all, it's all great and wonderful. And both of them also allow themselves to criticize Frank Stronach, who has invested a lot here in Austria, created many jobs and also bears responsibility. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I would expect this responsibility from the representatives of the government parties and also from the members of the Federal Government. Then: We would certainly be better off in Austria if we had more entrepreneurs and more business professionals like Frank Stronach and less political chair glues, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The debate has so far shown that few – especially the representatives of the government parties – have been dealing with the facts. The Minister of Finance did not really address the criticisms in his remarks, nor did he address the most important details. We always like to take Germany as an example – Chancellor Merkel et cetera – but if criticism from German experts comes to these bad papers, when buying the Ramsch papers, that is simply not mentioned. What's this about? – The purchase has been started, my previous speakers have already done so, the term is now set for two years. The volume of this purchase has not yet been mentioned. This is a trillion euro. This sum must be kept in mind once and for all, how much money is being taken into your hands here by the ECB in order to buy, among other things, also junk papers, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The impact on Austrian taxpayers will not be excluded, as risks will be distributed to the euro countries via the central bank system. And the Austrian National Bank is involved in the ECB, as we know. I would like to refer to the two German experts I mentioned earlier, namely the head of the Deutsche Bundesbank, Weidmann, and Hans-Werner Sinn, the head of the ifo Institute, who both oppose these ECB purchasing plans. The President of the Deutsche Bundesbank Weidmann, together with the President of the Oesterreichische Nationalbank Novotny, has also voted against this purchase project by the ECB. However, in your opinion, Mr Minister, you did not address the fact that Mr Novotny and Mr Weidmann voted against this ECB project. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Federal Minister Schelling: can act independently, and!]] With the ABS papers, banks can now pool their credit risks, outsource and repudiate balance sheets, among other things. With the purchase, the ECB expects more money for entrepreneurs, so that more corporate loans can be issued again. Only, the banks themselves say that, on the one hand, there is less demand for loans due to the economic situation, and on the other hand, we also know from the experience with the bank package that this money has not been passed on to entrepreneurs, because the banks have not granted them any more loans, ladies and gentlemen. Another point to be criticised here is that the purchases that the ECB has now decided are not covered by the mandate. For these are fiscal and not monetary policy measures. Here the ECB does not comply with its original mandate. In conclusion, there is a lot to be said here that the members of the Austrian Federal Government should be more and better involved. The Minister has said that there is an incentive there and there. What suggestion is being made? What is actually the ECB's suggestion? Where will Austria be heard? [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling.]] – You are welcome to speak again, Minister. I don't understand if you call something in the back there. [[Federal Minister Schelling: I don't understand you either!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The purchase of this Ramsch paper is really the worst thing that can be done from our point of view, and we will continue to be on the side of Austrian taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e7738	Last word in this current language European hour: Mr Mag. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e7760	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! The subject has been chosen on its own initiative, I think, because Austria has given responsibility for monetary policy with its participation in the euro. And now it would be essential to turn to the areas of political action which we still have in our hands in Austria. Where can we do something else to get hold of the situation? And I would like to take a look at the federal debt situation. Financial debt increased by a further 4.3 billion in 2013 so that we arrived at €194 billion in total. In contrast to this, we have a federal assets of 90 billion, so that we have a debt of 215 percent. 215 percent! And now we're looking at how we pay for it. We are currently paying a super favourable interest rate; so low was the interest rate in history never before. And at the same time, the charges pop in. The Minister of Finance must be happy every week when he looks at it. We have a sensational high tax rate. Although interest rates are low and taxes are high, debt remains on the rise. Because the colleague has said tiny, reforms are the commandment of the hour, I wonder which party here has actually been in the government for 28 years and is responsible for the baptizers we are standing here in front of. [[I should like to congratulate the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.]] In 2014, the provisions of the preventive arm of EU fiscal rules have now entered into force for the new Minister of Finance: the obligation to reduce the government debt ratio to 60% of GDP in 20 years. In the case of constant gross domestic product, this corresponds to a reduction of €6.3 billion per year, i.e. a budget surplus of 2%. In the relatively good year 2013, we have written a budget deficit of € 4.7 billion and 1.5 percent of GDP. That is to say, we have a difference of €11 billion or 3.5% of the gross domestic product. There would be a lot to do, and there would be a lot to do at home in Austria. One must not point one finger at the ECB because this is not the subject for which we are responsible. Mayor Häupl says that he is going to have a social policy before the Stability Pact – these are great greetings that a national leader will give to the Minister of Finance again – and the Federal Republic of Germany Chancellor Faymann does not want to meet the commitments of the Fiscal Pact as a model student. He prefers to buy again higher debts from the next generations from short-term political strategic considerations. This is always done at the expense of anyone if one saves himself politically in the short term. We in Austria are at risk of falling into debt due to this increase in the liquidity of the ECB and the low interest rates. As soon as the interest rates return – I call it – reach “natural level”, we can no longer pay what we recorded. In this sense, reforms are needed. I just don't trust this one to a party that hasn't done this for 28 years, I have to say quite clearly. We need a significant reduction in the tax burden on the people who provide services in this country. This also reduces the shadow economy and creates more reported jobs. We demand a relief from the labour factor, but not from debt costs, but through reforms. You can put them in the pension area. It belongs – that is what Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner rightly said in the “press hour” – to link the retirement age to life expectancy. We need to harmonize the age of women's pensions more quickly with that of men, and we need to create transparency in the promotions and, secondly, cut in. Austria is the world champion. We draw the citizens 100 € from the left pocket and give them 50 € back into the right pocket – and the rest successfully fry the bureaucracy. That's irresponsible! We need less state, less bureaucracy, less taxes, and more income, more freedom of choice and, above all, more financial freedom.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e7824	No one is reporting on this. I will close this debate. [[12:02:55]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e7845	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text:
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e8146	I also say that the Fifth Report of the Inconsistency Committee has been distributed to the members of the National Council. [[12:03:13]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e8167	The Club Team Stronach has according to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, the request for a written question 3068/J by Dr. Nachbaur, colleagues and colleagues to the Federal Chancellor concerning 'Federal Government in the Fact Check: 400,000 jobseekers rather than promised reforms are to be dealt with urgently. Under the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be carried out at least three hours after receipt of the agenda, i.e. at 15.05 a.m. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e8188	It is proposed that the debate on points 1 and 2 of the agenda be summarized. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. Then let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e8213	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 6 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 81, FPÖ 75, Green 63 as well as Stronach and NEOS per 33 minutes. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[12:04:53]] 1. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (263 e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act amending the Constitutional Court Law 1953, the Civil Procedure Order, the Extraordinary Law and the Criminal Procedural Code 1975 (325 d.b.) 2. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment No 53/A(E) by Mr Mag. Daniela Musiol, colleagues on disclosure obligations of the members of the Constitutional Court (326 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e8265	We now come to points 1 and 2 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Magistrate. Stefan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e8292	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This is the first time that we have been able to find a solution to this Proposal is a particularly positive example of how to achieve something from the opposition here in the House and see its initiatives implemented. This proposal for a law goes back to a request from colleagues Haimbuchner and me from January 2009. It is about closing a legal gap. It offers a party in a civil or criminal trial the possibility to appeal to the Constitutional Court if it considers that the judgment with which the party was sentenced has been taken on the basis of a constitutional law. This possibility now has the party itself. So far, it has not been possible. So far, this could only be suggested by the party, and the court itself could do so by itself, but one had no claim. Here a legal gap is closed. This is very gratifying because it offers the Constitutional Court another way to examine unconstitutional laws, and thus the possibility for individuals to choose this legal protection. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's very pleasing. It has taken a few years, but that is quite understandable. It must be admitted that such implementation needs its time. It had to be eliminated a lot of mistrust. Especially in the judicial system, there was distrust that the Constitutional Court would have passed a judgment. That was something we never wanted. A compromise was, of course, found – a compromise that is, at least, positive and improves. The compromise is that it is only possible to bring this appeal to the Constitutional Court in the course of a first instance procedure in the course of the appeal. Another part of the compromise is the creation of exceptions; Derogations in this respect that, in some cases, an appeal by the Constitutional Court should not be possible, because these procedures are particularly urgent. This is clearly and objectively justified. In our view, these exceptions go a little too far, if you look at § 52 para. 1 law on housing property. If you look at what's in there, you don't understand this total urgency. The purpose is to establish value-added and to re-estimate value, to tolerate changes and maintenance work, including compensation for property owners affected by this, or to establish a different settlement period. All these are not objects with special urgency. We do not understand why they are excluded. There are also a few other points. Nevertheless, it must be noted that, in all cases, it has not been possible to refer to the Constitutional Court. Although there may now be a little too many exceptions, it is still a significant improvement and therefore only positive assessment. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The second legislative initiative is also based on an initiative of the opposition – in this case from the Greens. It is about the need for the members of the Constitutional Court to disclose their activities to a wider extent. We are aware of the system that constitutional judges should exercise a profession. This must therefore be guaranteed, but in the sense of transparency and therefore of course also an improved trust-building measure, we have now provided in the law that constitutional judges must also be more aware of their activities. Our approach would be to provide for this to an even greater extent, not only for the constitutional judges, but even for the highest institutions in justice and home affairs. to define the administration. This means that the secondary activities of the members of the Supreme Court, of the Administrative Court or of the Administrative Court or of the Head of Division, which they are required to report, are also to be made transparent and accessible. This is the approach that we still have, and we shall make further proposals to that effect. All in all, I must say, I am very glad that we have found this way. This means a clear improvement in legal protection and transparency, and it remains, of course, the satisfaction that this ultimately goes back to our initiative.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e8365	Next item is the report by Mr Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e8386	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! The legislative complaint is one of those points that we have taken in many, many decisions here in Parliament in the course of the reorganisation of administrative jurisdiction – motions for resolutions or committee statements, and what I know is what has been done, the entire range of instruments of the parliamentary process – and the implementation of these legal complaints – the constitutional regulations we have already made a year and a half ago – is now the last step in the discharge of those promises given on the occasion of the implementation of the administrative jurisdiction. I am very glad that we have also established a unanimous system here. It is, of course, a compromise. We did not want to have a judgment, but we wanted to offer an opportunity to extend legal protection by allowing the law to be filed. That is to say, we have implemented the constitutional review of laws on their constitutional validity following the judgment of the first instance. We have, on the one hand, dealt with the implementation of the legislative complaint a little bit with a relatively comprehensive amendment which I would like to explain at this point in the broad outlines, but, on the other hand, we have essentially included in a law the application of the rules of partiality already in practice. Finally, we have also set out the publication of the secondary activities and the extension of those rules of partiality which we already had in the basic proposal, so that we could actually cover all the related requests, which have partly come from the opposition, partly from the government. I believe that in principle it is to be said that there is a massive extension of legal protection for individuals with the legal complaint, because at last the individual can go with concerns about the constitutionality of a law to the Constitutional Court. The publication of the secondary activities of the members of the Constitutional Court was also regulated so that any activity carried out either professionally or in a Supervisory Board mandate or in all possible situations must be announced. In addition, the partiality which has so far been established within the Constitutional Court, but not in the law, has also been defined in the rules of partiality. I would like to thank you, in all cases, for the very, very constructive climate in the Constitutional Committee, for the fact that we are once again able to reach an agreement on this subject. This has been done in a very difficult matter, because the legal complaint has also led to a fierce controversy between the Supreme Courts. If you recall only the public debate in articles of the Supreme Court with the Constitutional Court, then you know that this was not a slight birth – and for that it is a thank you to all those involved!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e8434	The amendment tabled by Mr Wittmann in his basic remarks is sufficiently supported, is under negotiation and has been distributed to the Members in a copy. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e8814	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Musiol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e8835	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I can go to where Mr Wittmann has stopped. I also believe that this reform, this legislative complaint, as we have mentioned in the working title – in fact, it is the party's proposal for standard control, because regulations can also be the subject of the examination – is a good example of how to shape and perhaps more often shape reforms in Parliament. Mr Stefan has already said that there was some time to start whether we would not want to do anything in this direction. Then we have assembled ourselves at the level of the constitutional speakers and have formulated both a fundamental and a goal, which is important to us in this context. Then, as it were, a draft has been drawn up in cooperation with the Federal Chancellor's Office, which we then discussed. The draft then went into the opinion, and there have also been comments which have also been taken into account. Now, if you listen to that, you can say: Yeah, that sounds like it was supposed to go! That is what I am saying, it should be done in principle, but unfortunately it is not always the case. In the matter that is now under discussion, I think – and we can do so, we really have to say, in the constitutional area more often – it was very well run. The big discussion – which has already been addressed – was about the issue of exceptions. We have said that these may be kept as “slender” as possible, but of course there are areas where a quick decision is necessary. I'm just saying, Maintenance advance procedure. In such procedures, it is also existent whether they can be done at least temporarily, or if the procedure would be delayed if this standard verification had been made possible. Against this background, we have found a very good agreement, and I am pleased that we can adopt it in this way today. Of course, one will have to observe – as well as the administrative jurisdiction – where in practice there are problems. Calls from outside were already there, not only in the opinion, but also medial, because various standing representatives are worried. We must take this seriously and see whether these concerns are justified, whether we want to remedy them, or whether other interests are involved, and therefore we must maintain this system. In the context of the amendment of this Constitutional Act, a provisional order has also been introduced. This is very important that the Constitutional Court also has the opportunity to implement interim orders. This is just a consistent line which we have already brought into the administrative process. But what I am – and you can imagine this – particularly pleased is that we have succeeded in resolving the question of disclosure of the activities for a very long time – in which case, unfortunately, it is not a secondary activity, but rather a main activity – of the constitutional judges and constitutional judges. The proposal I have tabled on this matter has been back for a long time. We have always discussed this very openly, but at the beginning it has not looked forward to reaching an agreement for me. I always had support here from colleagues Stefan, but also from other opposition parties. Of course, the first reaction of the Constitutional Court was to establish it voluntarily. This was certainly a first important step, but our and my conviction in this context was: Transparency cannot be done at a voluntary level, but transparency and control must be established, namely by law. We have discussed this for a very long time, and it is all the more gratifying that we were able to agree here. Of course, I would have liked more – my request, which is being discussed today, has also included more – but now we have regulated that reports on professional activities and executive functions are to be made, which will then be published. We also had planned the expert activities and also the participation in companies, because of course this can also lead to partialities. We have now agreed on the fact that these more stringent schemes you have already mentioned will include, and that it is quite clear that: If the appearance arises because I have drawn up an opinion in this case before, in whatever context, as a judge/director, or because I have a participation, for example, in a law firm that was already involved in this procedure sometime, then this is a reason to explain myself to be caught and to stay out of this case. This is again a rather surprising but positive indication that it is sometimes possible that you can follow opposition ideas and opposition applications, and you don't have to close your eyes before them in principle. But you can imagine that it is not that we are putting our hands in the lap now, but of course we are continuing in terms of transparency, and there is already a next occasion. A new member of the EGMR, i.e. the European Court of Human Rights, is to be appointed in the next summer/ autumn, as the current member's term of office expires. There has been an invitation to tender in the “Wiener Zeitung”, and six candidates – with large I, i.e. candidates – have reported themselves. The further procedure is to proceed in such a way that four top officials, two from the BKA, two from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, will draw up a proposal from these six candidates, who will then go to Strasbourg, and the Council of Europe will decide for one person. – We say that is anything but a transparent procedure. I would like us to make this procedure more transparent, as we always note with many other judicial orders. It would be useful, for example, to hold a public hearing here and also to extend this circle of officials to human rights organisations, because the EGMR is about human rights, but also about university people. Why? – For the reason that, when cases are in Strasbourg before the EGMR, the government is usually the one that has to represent its own cases, and it sounds a bit absurd – or: what does “a bit” mean?, it is absurd – that one chooses one’s own judge. In so far as I am seeking that we also enter into discussions on this matter and look at how to make this procedure more transparent. This would certainly raise confidence in legal protection and legal certainty. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e8904	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Gerstl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e8926	Mr President. Federal Minister! I think that the legal protection house that we set up a year ago in the construction of raw materials, we are setting up today. [[Call at the SPÖ:... interior development!]] It is a beautiful legal protection house for the Austrians, in which they can move freely, in which they can exercise all the rights in which the rule of law is secured: This is the big house that we have brought together here, and I would like to thank all the opposition parties, all the government parties and all those who have been involved in it very much. It is a great example for Austria. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] - Yes, you can praise! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this constitutional control of standards is a milestone in the Austrian Federal Constitution and for the legal protection of Austrians. Each party now has the opportunity to have a provision of civil law or criminal law checked by the Constitutional Court even in civil proceedings or in criminal proceedings. It is a very, very essential step that the Constitutional Court, as the guardian of our constitution, will have an even stronger role in the future, and I believe it is now only more up to us that we should shape the Constitution in the sense that we want it to live together for the Austrians in society and for the state. And there is still a lot to be done, in my opinion, because the Austrian federal constitution dates back to 1920. [[Abg. Moser:... a new rental right!]] There have already been a number of proposals in the 2004 Constitutional Convention, from that time onwards also the control of standards. And to return to colleague Stefan and to colleague of the Greens: Yes, a victory always has many fathers, but I think it is not so relevant who eventually had the first idea, it is important that we have done it today and that we also want to continue many approaches that already existed in the 2004 Constitutional Convention. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to transparency in the secondary activities or activities of the Constitutional Courts, I should like to say that: There was and there is no occasion in which a constitutional judge would have been caught in any decision. Nevertheless, it is good and right that we adopt a law here, which will ensure that there can be no doubt about the complete unbiasedness of a constitutional judge in any decision. Therefore, this decision is important today to ensure that the Constitutional Court as a guardian of the Constitution can always make its decisions completely independent and unbiased. Ladies and gentlemen! The House can celebrate this day, and I thank you for the fact that this great Constitutional Law Novelle, this great novelle of legal protection can be designed today and the discussion about it was held at the beginning of the agenda. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e8979	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e9000	Ladies and gentlemen! What may sound technical is indeed a real development of legal protection for citizens. It has already been said: If a case was previously brought before the Court of Justice in civil or criminal matters, and a law that affected one was considered unconstitutional, one could not even challenge it at the Constitutional Court, but had to encourage it at the court and hope that the court would follow that position and then submit the law to the Constitutional Court. – That is now being changed, and I have already said that this is a real innovation. As a result of long discussions – it was not a simple solution because, of course, many interests were affected in this legislative process – one has chosen the variant that one has said that after the first instance this challenge should go to the Constitutional Court as a result of an appeal. Now, however, there is again criticism that one asks why this is not to be presented to the Constitutional Court only if the OGH has decided why it is done in the middle of the matter. This would result in almost every ques tion before the Constitutional Court. First of all, I have never seen anyone seeking legal protection cross-checkers, second, they have to explain in detail why they think the law is unconstitutional, and thirdly, I think that it is socially fair. If one goes to the OGH, a procedure is even more expensive and is therefore a barrier to financially less potent applicants for legal protection than if I can go to the Constitutional Court immediately after the first instance and then get the legal basis for the further procedure. That is why I do not think that it is just a compromise that we should: the first instance can call on the Constitutional Court, but I think that this is indeed a very useful opportunity to allow those seeking legal protection who cannot and would not go through it until the end to challenge this challenge. In addition, if we had chosen the variant that we could call on the Constitutional Court after the OGH, we would have had to have held an infinitely long debate on the constitutional architecture of the Supreme Court, for this would have raised the following question: Is the Constitutional Court superior to the Supreme Court or are the three highest courts in Austria equal? – The Constitution has so far assumed that they are of the same rank and that a debate would have lasted endlessly. I therefore believe that this solution allows for constitutional protection without removing the equality of the highest courts. Of course, we will look at ourselves – and this is already an argument that needs to be taken seriously – whether these procedures then lead to delays in time. And if the complaints to the Constitutional Court are primarily because you want to gain time, then you will have to discuss it. But I would not immediately assume that the worst case always occurs, but I believe that we have chosen the right path. The exception catalogue is already a reaction to saying that one is afraid that in very sensitive materials, which can be quickly clarified, the Constitutional Court will be called and the decision will be delayed. – But it was also our interest that this exception catalogue should remain as narrow as possible, and I would be right for the FPÖ to: He's probably too narrow. And even here we will have to look at the individual points carefully whether, in some areas of constitutional protection, too far-reaching exceptions are undermined. But I would say once, the perfect is the enemy of good, and what is present is good anyway. The fact that you may still be able to re-adjust and improve it is undisputed. One point that is important and which I would like to make is the disclosure of the activities of constitutional judges. That is something for which my colleague, Mr Magistrate, is speaking. Daniela Musiolshon has long been in use and she has now implemented and implemented together with all the others, and I am particularly interested in this. It is not about envy and distrust, it is about transparency, and the principle of transparency is to become the essential element of modern democracy. This transparency applies not only to politicians, not only to parliamentarians, but also to senior judges, of course, and ensures that there is no distrust, because it sets out transparent areas in which judges of the Constitutional Court are active. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e9061	The next item is the report by Mr Vetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e9083	Mr President. Minister! High house! I too have seen the atmosphere in the Committee as a matter of fact and thank you for the excellent Presidency and the work of my colleagues. I should like to make two points. Both points have to do with a classical challenge to the lawyers, namely the problem of border crossing, which we have both in the legislative complaint and in the transparency provisions for the constitutional judges. In the case of the law complaint, it is so that we have to draw the border between the order for acceleration and the order for justice. If we now introduce the possibility of going to the Constitutional Court after the first instance, this is certainly a huge step forward in relation to what has been done so far. So far, only the second or third instance was able to send something to the Constitutional Court, whereby it was only possible to stimulate this as a party – in instances with which one had no personal contact, because there was only the principle of writtenness. In the first instance, on the other hand, one could not push and say: Please send it to the Constitutional Court! – So this new possibility is a huge step forward. What is, of course, controversial is the exception catalogue, and there are already a lot of discussions about it, which I understand. We cannot decide anything right or wrong, we simply have to find a compromise on this, and we know that. We in the Committee know that we just had to find a compromise. I would like to give you an example, which shows how difficult this is. If you rent a guest house, the rental right applies to you. This is in the exception catalogue, so you can't go to the Constitutional Court. If you rent a restaurant and the tenant does not pay, you can very well call on the Constitutional Court, because rent is not in this exception catalogue. Two very, very similar facts are treated differently. But we just have to draw a border – we can't do it differently! – and so I already ask those who are then affected to understand that you had to move the border somewhere. Second issue: Constitutional Court – Transparency Command. The disclosure of secondary activities is absolutely in order, most of them are to be seen in the company's book anyway. Here we have the border between transparency and intimacy – “glass man”. Here, too, the judges are in truth aware that they are not public property and do not have to reveal everything they do. An example: If a judge of my profession apply for the Constitutional Court, he cannot reveal everything he has done as a lawyer. For example, he cannot reveal his clients, for that would, in turn, affect their rights. It is good, ladies and gentlemen, that the profession of the Constitutional Court is also a secondary activity, that there are people who have other professions. I think a lot of mixings because they bring a further look. I say in my other area, in the defence of the state, that I consider the mixing of military and professional officers to be good, and I think it is good that there are lay judges, for example, in criminal law. There are a lot of other areas in which this is good – not least with us, ladies and gentlemen: If Parliament itself has as many members as possible, who also have secondary activities or other main activities, the look we have is a lot more. The interaction of secondary activities and main activities is thus positive in many professions. In this respect too, I think the compromise we have reached is a good thing in the sense of transparency. I think he's really balanced. We have just found the border between transparency on the one hand and intimacy on the other. What I like to say: We must also bear in mind, with all our love for transparency, that freedom also belongs to intimacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e9137	The next speaker was Mr Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e9158	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! It is noticed that when the Constitutional speakers talk about a seemingly woody and technical topic, it's almost bubbling here in the hall. I believe, however, that the essential point is – and that is what we need to look at here again, and Mr Gerstl has tried to express this earlier – that this is a very important and comprehensive change in terms of the legal protection of each individual, of every individual in Austria, and that what we are doing here today with the implementing laws is really historical. We've already heard: So far, it has been the case that in civil and criminal proceedings one has acted as a party, as an individual as a bitter. If, in its constitutionally guaranteed rights, one has somehow felt affected, one has to request the forwarding to the Constitutional Court, so almost the judges ask for it to be submitted. The judge then decided freely whether he was doing it – and that means, of course, that one never had a claim on it. That means you were a bit bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit. In addition, in this system, the judge is somehow over this procedure, and that for an ordinary citizen this is a certain difficulty, I understand of course. The only thing that was then possible in such proceedings before the OGH was the only fundamental legal issue that could be addressed was the fundamental right complaint when it came to the right to personal freedom. It is now so far that in the future individuals will have the opportunity to appeal to the Constitutional Court directly against a first instance judgment by means of an appeal, if they feel affected by a procedure in their constitutionally guaranteed rights. In other words, as a result, every citizen, every citizen, can go directly to the VfGH and demand that compliance with his fundamental rights be checked there. Especially in the implementing laws, but also in the general legal complaint, there were different opinions which also came from many sides. In particular, we have heard the argument of delay in proceedings, and today we find two lawyers who also criticise the law in the “standard” under the title “primary protection with a lot of reason for complaints”. These have mainly meant that one should have this option only in the case of last-minute decisions, as it is, among other things, in Germany. I think this is a very essential point, that we already have this after the first instance decision, because, as I am perfectly right with Mr Steinhauser, it is about preserving the fundamental rights of people who do not have the financial resources. It cannot be that fundamental rights protection in any way depends on the financial equipment of a person, because it is really about fundamental rights. It is also, of course, about the fact that, if I am affected by my constitutionally guaranteed rights, I do not need to wait until the last instance decides, I usually know that before. So these are two very essential things, and that is why I think this is perfectly correct that we already have this possibility after the first instance. Overall, we are massively expanding fundamental rights protection, and we also support the function of the Constitutional Court as the body in Austria responsible for fundamental rights. In the future, it is therefore clear that every citizen, for every citizen, has a further legal protection mechanism to protect his rights – his fundamental rights. The second thing that we are going to decide in this context today is the matter of disclosure obligations for constitutional judges, and I would also like to stress once again, even if we have already heard that it is not in any way and The point is that we want to express some distrust towards the Constitutional Court, which is really not what it is all about. It is simply a question of transparency and that it is comprehensible for citizens – whether they are secondary activities or main activities – and, I think, in the context of other matters – and that citizens can see what other activities are carried out by the constitutional judges. We in the House have a majority in favour of continuing these main or secondary activities, and I can also gain a lot of good from this. There are other models, too, as in Germany, where it is not so, but I think it makes sense and right that the experience of the so-called normal life – the colleague Vetter has explicitly addressed it – is also brought in. But if we have such a thing, we must make it clear as legislator that these things are also being revealed. The VfGH has done this by itself in recent years, I think that it is right, but we, as legislators, if we consciously decide that we want to have this division, namely, to be a constitutional judge on the one hand and to be able to pursue another profession, we also have to regulate this disclosure clearly by law. Another small matter, as Mrs Musiol referred the matter to the European Court of Human Rights and the Court of Justice. First of all, I am very pleased that so great experts have applied. It's a great choice that's given there. It is true that in the Parliamentary Assembly, in which I also sit, this judicial order is carried out in a committee. I also believe that there would be more transparency and we should therefore make a hearing. It is, as has been said, great candidates there, among other things also the capazundians of human rights in Austria. But, clearly, more transparency is still leading to more acceptance, and that is something that we should do. Finally, like all my previous speakers, I would like to thank you. I think this is something quite great that we have put in place here. When the whole thing started, I was not sitting here in the House yet, but I am very pleased that this is finally being concluded with the relevant implementing provisions and is in force from next year onwards. I would like to express my express thanks to the Constitutional Court, which, with its expertise, has also brought many things in. Once again, I would like to stress that it is such a wooden and such a technical topic: What there will be since next year is a very essential part of fundamental rights protection in Austria. This is something we can all be proud of together, because it focuses on the citizens and their citizens and their individual fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e9238	Mr Ostermayer has now spoken. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e9259	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I join the general expressions of thanks. I am also very pleased that we have now made the last building block of the expansion of the rule of law and legal protection in Austria, which has begun with the federal administration and state administration jurisdiction, a project that has not been implemented for two and a half decades and was then decided by an extremely broad majority or unanimously here. I am pleased that there have been very constructive discussions again and that we have been able to prove again in this case that it is possible to make unanimous decisions. And I also thank the representatives of the opposition parties for their constructive participation. On the issue of authorship: I do not think this is so important, but for me personally, the starting point was a discussion in relation to the administrative jurisdiction which I held at the time with representatives of the Constitutional Court. As a result, we then had an in-depth discussion with the Supreme Court. I am very glad that this solution has finally been achieved even under the intensive participation of the Federal Ministry of Justice. I would also like to thank the Constitutional Service, which has accompanied this whole project, which lasted so long, and which has also made legislative proposals, which now also have broad or unanimous approval. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I would also like to thank Mr Steinhauser for the following beautiful sentence, which he said – I wrote it down – “I would not immediately suspect that the worst case always occurs...” – I think that is very good, I share this opinion. I was similarly surprised by a contribution in today’s issue of the “Standard”, which bears the following title: “Principal rights protection with a lot of reason for complaints.” I read this right away because I thought: Could we have overlooked anything? When I read the criticism that reads: “First of all, it is easier and cheaper to make a complaint immediately after the first instance,” and then further below is warned of the risk of opening the door and door, and then leading to procedural delays as the second criticism point, I was calmed again. Of course: The fact that if you grant an additional possibility of legal protection, you take more time to act is quite clear. That is, the task is that time will not be too great. As far as the second criticism is concerned, I should like to say: That we give wide access to justice, I think democracy is the most natural thing. So I'd like to accept this criticism. Again: Thank you very much for the intensive discussion and that the whole can now be brought to such a good end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e9316	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e9338	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! I can only briefly point out that the city of St. Pölten has sent two classes to Vienna as a sign of appreciation for the subject, and we welcome the HLW St. Pölten with a warm applause. Thank you for coming! [[General condolences.]] Now in the second round you can take a short look. We have rarely experienced such a harmony in the debate here, and I am also grateful to all those who have contributed to this law. These are implementing provisions which serve to implement the basic provisions of legislation which we have actually adopted here over a year ago. It is important to point out that this broad discussion between the Supreme Courts in the meantime has led to the fact that, as we can see from this outcome here, the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court are once again acting as a heart and a soul – now drawn in a plastic way. I think it's important that we all pull one line here. The "standard" article mentioned earlier by the Federal Minister and which, from my point of view, is actually trying to present the possible negatives in the discussion is to be relativized in so far as reference is made to the fact that there are not enough possibilities to make applications to the Constitutional Court, while at the end of the article, which by the way comes from a spring, there is a risk of inflation of applications. I believe that this structure, which may not have been dialectically thought out, already shows that it is obviously more about practicing criticism for the sake of criticism, which I actually regret, because it is not all too often in this medium, but exceptions are precisely confirming the rule. I therefore believe that it is not necessary to take this seriously to the extent that it might otherwise be. In the very long discussion, it was also a question of whether a complaint could still be lodged with the Constitutional Court after the end of a procedure at the Supreme Court – more or less doubled. This would mean that it would be possible to break through the law and relativise the judgment of the Supreme Court. All of them felt that this was not very positive, and therefore, in the preliminary proceedings, there is the right up from the Oberlandesgericht. This argument has passed through the entire legislative work that it should not be that legal decisions are already being rolled up again. This is why the individual provisions always contain such rules, so that they do not take place through the law. But even in procedures where acceleration is particularly necessary, there should be no wear. In the second part of the above mentioned “standard” article, it should be noted that there is no wear and inflationary applications. In this regard, the Commission I mean, we're actually on the right track and we're going in accordance with the author of this part of the article. I am delighted about this law – a truly epochal development! Once again, congratulation to all those who have contributed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e9395	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e9416	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Scherak meant that when constitutional councils are discussed, he always feels such a bread in the hall. So honestly, I don't have that impression! But this is also the challenge on this issue: that often so complicated things are discussed, which the citizen does not understand! Therefore, it is good for many people to listen, watch, and when many are present here. There I can also welcome a school class, namely the students of the Peuerbach-Gymnasium from Linz. Welcome! [[General condolences.]] [[Abg. Jarolim: This is symbolic: St. Pölten and Linz and we here!]] – Well, we are also thinking of other federal states, and it is ultimately also about all the citizens of this state. Therefore, it is important that we try to translate this matter. What we decide today is of great importance not only to young people but also to the citizens as a whole. If anyone is affected today in a trial – whether criminal, judicial or civil – and the provision he was sentenced considers unconstitutional, this citizen has only limited possibilities. He/she can tell the judge: I think that is not all right, that is constitutionally problematic! But if the judge does not continue to pursue this, the citizen has no further possibility. He has no legal right to it. In contrast to the notice: Any citizen can challenge a decision at the Supreme Court. Today's decision gives the citizen the opportunity to challenge laws that affect him personally, as well as a decision. It's a new quality. Applications for standards control must be submitted by one of the parties to the Constitutional Court. So if a citizen says that in the court proceedings I was concerned by a constitutional provision that I do not think is correct, then he makes this request to the Constitutional Court. That means that the citizen has direct access to the Constitutional Court, and that is very positive. This increases legal protection in Austria. It is important that, as has already been mentioned, this Implementing Act is now being adopted. The condition for the appeal of the Constitutional Court is that a party to the proceedings shall bring an appeal in good time against the first instance. There is no deadline for the Constitutional Court, but it has been said in the Committee that a rapid decision must be taken. There is therefore a statement of intent that such applications for standards control will be decided quickly. The exceptions have also been mentioned. At this point you can discuss whether this is useful or not. We must certainly look at how these things are going to happen in the future in order to possibly create more opportunities here. Finally, I would like to say: In my opinion, this provision is important for citizens, but ultimately also for the economic location, because the Constitutional Court should then take decisions quickly, which also give legal certainty. I therefore conclude, and I believe, that this is a positive way of extending citizens' rights, so that our citizens get a modern tool in order to get their right more directly within our democracy than before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e9459	Mrs Lueger is speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e9480	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Many words have already been said: Instrument of the case-law, legal protection of individuals and fundamental rights, indicated in each case. In this six-party agreement, I think back to our Constitutional Committee, where our chairman has said from the house that there is an amendment, but the aim would be to complement and continue this amendment proposal so far that we can bring together a six-party agreement again. In my opinion, it is particularly important in constitutional matters to show a great deal of unity in the sense and for the benefit of the citizens of Austria. The expectation of the individual has also been raised by many before me. It can affect any one of us: civil law, divorce, inheritance. Each of us can be affected by that. The same applies to criminal proceedings: If I was affected by a trial for injury and the opinion was that this judgment was taken on the basis of a law that was not constitutionally in order, then I had to take note of that up to that date and could not do anything about it. As the colleague has already said before me: I could tell the judge that I thought something was wrong here, but I had no means of turning to the Constitutional Court as a private person. This possibility is now created by this law. I can therefore now contact the Constitutional Court, which will review it and then either confirm it or accept the appeal and correct it. As Mr Steinhauser said, there is, of course, the possibility of delays. But since I already have to demonstrate my concern in advance, I am convinced that a good barrage has been introduced to abuse. The Constitutional Court will not set a deadline for the decision, but the decisions, as already discussed in the Committee, should be taken within three to four months. I think that's a good solution. The amendment, which was finally introduced in the amended form today, also integrates the publication obligations of the Constitutional Court members, who can also exercise another profession and thus have to report their secondary activity. The grounds for partiality are also clearly defined once again. Another important process in this legislative process was that practical, normal work already carried out is also put on a legal basis. I think that's a good success. Of course, adjustments may be necessary, but this is the right step in the right direction for our citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e9526	The next speaker is Mrs Pfurtscheller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e9547	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate viewers in the galleries, who unfortunately all go now! Estimated viewers on the screens! As has already been said, this Federal Law Novelle, which we will decide here today, represents a major step towards closer proximity to citizens and improved legal protection. It is the result of a decision of the National Council of June 2013, which resulted in the drafting of this implementing law on the so-called law complaint. This amendment is intended to allow persons who are parties to a case decided by an ordinary court from January 2015 to make a request for the repeal of a general standard or a law at the Constitutional Court if that person considers that this law is unconstitutional. It has also been explained simplified: This novel allows people who doubt the constitutionality of a law to have this examined and, if necessary, to be cancelled. That means: Someone is sentenced and believes that the law on which he has been sentenced is unconstitutional. Then he can make a direct request to the Constitutional Court for the repeal of this law. However, it is necessary that a permitted appeal against the decision has been filed in the first instance in good time. The appeal must be brought directly to the Constitutional Court and must be heard by the Court of First Instance whether the judgment has been properly brought against it. In addition to natural persons, associations are also entitled to submit an application under the Association Responsibility Act, liability parties under the Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act and media holders. In juvenile criminal cases, the legal representative may also submit an application for standard control. In the case of civil proceedings, standard audits must also be notified to the opponent, the Court of Justice is bound by the statement of the Constitutional Court. In order to avoid evading the purpose of certain procedures, for example due to time delays – and this has already been explained – individual exceptions are provided for by the law complaint. This concerns, for example, execution, possession and proof proceedings, termination of leases, the provision of unlawfully spent children, procedures under the Maintenance Advancement Act and extradition procedures. It is also new that, in the future, a court competent at the Constitutional Court of First Instance may also apply for the repeal of a law or regulation if it has concerns. It is, of course, to be expected that this novelle will entail an additional burden for the Constitutional Court, but I am convinced that this effort is in any case justified in the sense of the rule of law, legal protection and the proximity of citizens to our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e9605	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 1: Draft federal law, which amends the Constitutional Court Act, the Civil Procedure Order, the Extraordinary Law and the Criminal Procedures Act, into 263 of the Supplements. Hiezu is a supplementary or amendment tabled by Dr Wittmann, Mag. Gerstl, Mag. Stefan, Mag. Musiol, Dr. Vetter, Dr. Scherak, colleagues on Art. 1 before. In view of the fact that there is only one request, we shall immediately vote on the draft law and the title and receipt of the draft government proposal, taking account of the supplementary or amendment tabled by Mr Wittmann, Mr Mag. Gerstl, Mag. Stefan, Mag. Musiol, Dr. Vetter, Dr. Scherak, colleagues. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who advocate a sign of acknowledgment. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – That is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 2: Proposal from the Constitutional Committee to take note of its report 326 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. [[13:01:19]] 3rd. Point Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the Green Report 2014 from the Federal Government (III-101/359, p.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e9686	We're coming to 3. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Jannach is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e9713	Mr President. Federal Minister! Appreciate listeners! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are talking about the Green Report 2014. This is actually a past report if you want to, because it concerns the 2013 figures, so it is not particularly up-to-date. We have already suggested at the Committee meeting that we should always refer and rename the Green Report to the respective year. In principle, our group would like to thank the authors of the Green Report once again. It is a comprehensive work which represents the situation in agriculture and also allows conclusions on how successful or little success agricultural policy has been in recent years. We take two points out here. The first is the milk market, which is now totally in the break. Farmers know: The milk quota is running out, very much to our failure, the price decline is already noticeable! Unfortunately, we have noted that there is no compensation for the milk quotas purchased for farmers. We have already made several applications here. Unfortunately, these have not been taken into account, very much to our displeasure. There is a misunderstanding between dairy farmers and beet farmers: Here the quota is extended on the grounds that the price is kept and the milk quota is abolished. This is a massive damage to local dairy farmers! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Steinbichler.]] A second point I would like to draw from this Green Report, namely agricultural diesel, because it is being dealt with in detail this time. Farmers have lost €50 million in direct income here. The Federal Government – and this has nothing to do with the European agricultural policy – has removed this agricultural diesel, this mineral oil tax refund. This is about €50 million. We have called for the reimbursement of the tax on agricultural diesel, but not for farmers to receive more subsidies, but for this to be fair to competition, because in seven other European countries there is no mineral oil tax on diesel for farmers. Here we call for a refund, just as we had in advance, simply to bring about a level playing field between Austrian farmers and other European farmers. This too has unfortunately been rejected. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Green Report deals, as has been said, with the year 2013. But now is the year of change, now the new funding period is beginning, and here, Mr Minister, we also need to discuss a few points. We have a surface digitization here – I would like to address it in particular. You should have learned from the past, as was the case with the alms. Where we have produced this very large almchaos, where no one can see how large the real areas are, where there have been different results, where farmers have been faced with many recoveries, now runs in the background a program that digitizes the individual trees and individual shrubs. We have, roughly estimated, digitized four million individual trees and shrubs, bushes and hedges, without the farmers knowing anything about them. We believe that with this measure, with this single tree and shrub digitization, we are producing again what we have produced in recent years in the pastures. We are calling on you to take action, to limit this and, above all, to create clarity for the farmers, because no one knows yet how it will affect, whether these individual trees and shrubs can then be removed as landscape elements and what sanctions can be expected. As has been said, farmers need to be informed. That is why I would like to ask you today to finally inform the farmers about this. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Maybe a short while to the Russian sanctions: Here too, there have been compensation promises to farmers. It's big in the paper: So and so many millions are receiving farmers from a European fund and perhaps nationally. In reality, however, it is the case that farmers receive nothing at all! You will not receive any euro. They make marketing measures, of which we do not yet know if they will be successful. But we imagine this in such a way – and in principle we note that we reject the Russian sanctions – so we imagine that the damaged farmers – and they are really damaged, those are the fruit farmers, these are the pig farmers, these are also the dairy farmers – they have to keep the compensation directly, because they have a loss of income, and we have to compensate for it! I also ask you what happened to this: They promised to take part in prices for farmers half a year ago. Again, we have nothing here except the announcement that the trade will do so, so far. Today, as a request, we are making one point: This is one of our main points in the new support programme, which is the ceiling for farmers. We have companies in Austria that receive hundreds of thousands of euros in grants! This is a fact that can be found in the transparency database ‘www.transparencydatabase.at’. We have very, very few large businesses, which receive millions of subsidies, and quite a lot of farms that receive very little support. In terms of figures, this means: Of 120 000 farms, 70 000 are receiving direct support from both programmes, from direct payments and from the environmental programme. And there are 300 businesses in Austria – of 120 000 – that receive an average of €450 per year in subsidies! Here we have called for a ceiling on funding and we are still calling on them to bring some justice into this entire funding programme. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My appeal in this direction is addressed to the SPÖ delegates this time. We have already heard in the morning how important it is to create distribution justice, how important it is to introduce wealth taxes, how important it is to tax rich people in order to relieve small income earners. Now I read – and you have now made this request – what individual businesses receive in support here. We have the Fürst Liechtenstein Foundation... [[Abg. Eßl: You've read that out last time!]] That's what I read last time. But it won't be any less right if I clarify it again today. The Prince Liechtenstein Foundation: € 1.3 million per year. We have Ehrenhofer Robert GmbH: 580 000 € per year funding. The Stift Heiligenkreuz – colleague Pendl is not here, he has complained anyway that they get so much –: 570 000 €. We have the Prince-Esterhazy Private Foundation: €700 000 in funding. We have a business of Allacher, divided into two farms: € 780 000 per year. Here we have no limitation. It is completely incomprehensible to me – and that is why we are calling for the nameable vote today – so it is completely incomprehensible to me, as the SPÖ Members in particular can justify! We could still step in now, we could still introduce these ceilings. We could achieve a reduction in these amounts of funding here if we only wanted to do so. But if you have the support to this extent – that is always only one year; if If you count this to five or six years, then millions of subsidies will come out of all these companies – if you now agree to this, please do not go out and ask for a millionaire tax, tax justice and compensation! It is here that Mr Preiner is always so polite and says that we want to secure jobs in rural areas. I'll just give you one example: We have the company – this is not a mere position of this company, because this is rereadable on the transparency database – Landgut Allacher GmbH from Gols, which receives 470 000 € per year funding. Allacher agriculture, by chance also in Gols, by chance the same managing director there, receives €313,000 per year funding. In total, this is € 780 000. Mr Preiner, how many jobs do you think these two companies have? – Exactly six jobs! I emphasize: Exactly six jobs! 780 000 € per year for six jobs! The establishments listed in this application are only exemplary from the transparency database. You can find many, many more there, but you can't blame it to pay out these large amounts of grants individually! [[Abg. Eßl: How much do the brothers get Scheuch?]] [[Abg. Eßl: How much do the brothers get Scheuch?]] To the brothers Scheuch I can say something too. They're not my political friends if you know that, and you know that. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] Mr Eßl, I believe that the Scheuch brothers – which is not even in the transparency database, because there are only companies and foundations – receive €90 000 in funding. I repeat: €90 000 in support in 2002. It is not about exposing individuals here, but about societies and foundations! The individual private farmers are not listed, but the companies and foundations are concerned. Hundreds of thousands of euros are paid out, in my opinion, without a social benefit and without social justice. Six jobs: 780 000 € per year times six makes 4.5 million in five years! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We are going to step in, and that is why I am submitting our request. We need this upper limit. [[Quoted print version removed]] We do not put in any exact sum so that we can have the opportunity to set a limit once again in negotiations. That is why I would ask you, and I would also ask you, Mr Minister, to propose this kind of insidiousness for individual, very few big ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e9835	The application is sufficiently supported, has been explained in the main guidelines and is therefore properly submitted. I may inform you that a request according to § 66 para. The first sentence of the National Council's Rules of Procedure is the name of the vote. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e10658	Next speaker: Mr Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e10680	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, both in Parliament and in the audiences and at home in front of the TV! We are discussing and debating the 2014 Green Report, although this is the 2013 agricultural policy balance sheet, and Mr Jannach is right. A minus is indicated. These facts cannot be shaken, even if there are clear differences. But first of all, I should like to thank the farmers who provide the data and facts on this reference work, as well as the officials who produce this report, for it is a clear, excellent reference work! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This debate takes place in the middle of a golden autumn, in landscapes in magnificent green and yellow. But as magnificent as the landscape is, the market environment in recent months is not: the global and European economy, a seemingly large oversupply of milk, pig, grain, fruit and maize, as well as a major market failure in view of Eastern Europe, African swine fever and other areas. At the same time, we are burdened and challenged by a difficult debate on the acceptance of modern animal husbandry in the industrialized countries. The atmosphere of the farmers is in fact cooler than a cold November day with stormböen. A food-trafficking sluggish with these actions [[In the course of the following remarks, the speaker shall keep several signs on the basis of which food prices are indicated.]] I wonder, What appreciation, acceptance and attitude do we offer to a hard working population to care for the animal on every Sunday and holiday? Here's a pigmeat action: Schnitzel minus 50 percent, € 4.99. € 4.99, ladies and gentlemen, and at the same time cat feed at € 5.33! That's where I'm asking myself slowly: What appreciation is given to the really professional, sustainable, working group of farmers in careful handling of animals? [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ, FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] Fresh milk action: € 0,49 or € 0,54, different brands, also applied to gono longer. The litre of water already costs €0.79 and – this is really a cut-out – the litre of cat milk €4.75! The litre of cat milk €4.75, I ask those responsible in these department store chains, in the trade chains, what responsibility they take over and what appreciation they give to farmers! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I give every pet the best food, of course. But there should be a rethinking here, so that these negative spirals will be ended, because 2014 too will be a minus of the market-political environment. Every economic impulse is necessary especially in times of severe economic crisis. Behind the farms, there are thousands of courageous investment decisions made by farmers, by peasant families. But behind that there is also the zeal, even if some people in our society sleep for a long time on Sundays and holidays or enjoy nature, while the farmers are in the stable. The performance of a professional group is very often not seen. In particular, agriculture is one of the most important professional groups: Food, renewable energy, 80 per cent of our country's design by landscape design, 530 000 employees in the sub- and downstream areas – and then sometimes to be accused as mass animal owners, agricultural factories, organized animal tortures, cheap mass goods, this professional group has not deserved! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Steinbichler.]] Ladies and gentlemen, some people in our country should look a little at what agricultural factories are! In Austria: 19 hectares of average arable land; a cattle population limit where other occupational groups in Europe can only smile. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take the opportunity to thank the Federal Minister Rupprechter for the export initiative because of this difficult market environment – she certainly contributes to market relief; I congratulate the approval of having achieved LE in Europe as one of the first 118 programmes – and to showing respect to farmers and farmers. I do not want to forget to thank the Federal Minister Hundstorfer for the fairness of the compensation for the unemployment of the ancillary farmers, but above all to ask for trade – urgently requested; if they do not accept the request, we will take other measures – to implement sustainability and beautiful images at appropriate prices too! Ladies and gentlemen! A land without a farmer is like a forest without trees, and that can't be it. A country without a farmer is like a forest without trees – our trees do not grow in the sky, we are aware of that. But the farmers and farmers deserve to be able to share in economic development analogously with the other social classes.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e10773	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e10794	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Auer, it is no secret that in the next few months there will be some agricultural chamber elections in Austria. I understand, of course, the President-in-Office of the Federal Government of Auer, why he makes legitimate arguments here – legitimate arguments as regards the price situation, legitimate arguments as regards the social and income-related situation of today's agriculture in Austria. All right, colleague Auer, just: Who is responsible for the agricultural policy of the last decades? – The Farmers' Federation, in the representative of the Federal Minister! You will see once again how the situation is on this Green Report. The income situation – you mentioned it, colleague Auer – in 2013: 15.2 percent of farms are negative in the operating result. Negative: 15.2 percent of farms! And only 24.2 percent of farms have income from agriculture and forestry, which amount to more than €30 000. Only a quarter more than 30 000 €! But, ladies and gentlemen, do you know what these numbers actually mean? – They mean that these amounts are still inclusive of social security contributions. That is to say, in the agricultural accounts of the Green Report, we still have to deduct social security, and income tax is to be deducted from this amount. In agriculture, as if the social security contribution were part of the income. Mr. Federal Minister, this is a distortion of reality! It is not only 15 percent negative, it is at least 25 percent of farmers in Austria, if one also takes the social security contributions into account, negative in their results. That's reality. Who can talk about a good agricultural policy from a social point of view, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ? Where does your responsibility remain in this area? – I am quite right to Mr Jannach: If you take a long and continuous stand for wealth-related taxes – and there are good reasons where we can understand that tax justice is an hour’s commandment and a subject that moves the Austrian population – you must also be prepared to act consistently in the agricultural policy. Now I also come to explain why we cannot give this Green Report our approval this time, ladies and gentlemen, because the basic principles of transparency and co-determination are not respected. I will now read to you from the Agriculture Act, which is the task of this § 7 Commission. According to § 8(3), it is the “participation in the creation of rural development programmes” – that is exactly what is now being negotiated in Brussels – the Austrian rural development programme, which means that the Commission has these rights of participation – and to develop criteria for support for such programmes on the basis of Community standards for submission to the European Commission.” The Community standards are in this respect the European regulations. This is the task of the Commission. Mr Federal Minister, if I make the 2013 report and look up it under these rights of participation, that is just as I quoted it, but without a hint of what really happened. Now we really come to reality in Austria: In fact, the participation was not present. The representative of the Greens in the §-7 Commission, Dipl.-Ing. Hubmann from Styria, had to apply for an extraordinary meeting so that a meeting could be held at all on this point in the Agriculture Act. Requests from the Greens have been submitted and not even voted. What is this condition, Mr Minister, that there is a law and that the authorities, therefore your own people and yourself as the controller, do not worry that the law is actually done enough? I think that's just a scandal. I'm telling you this quite openly, it's a scandal if you don't implement the laws. If you read the Agriculture Act, there is even a constitutional provision under Section 2(5) that deals with ‘the granting of support under private economic agreements in the framework of measures under the Special Directive for the Austrian Programme for the Promotion of Environmentally-Agricultural and Extensive Agriculture’. This provision in the Agriculture Act, ladies and gentlemen, is ten years old, completely old, no longer valid, no longer legal. She's in the law, but she's not being executed anymore. Where is your initiative to change this point of the law to establish a legal basis for farmers to have legal certainty – legal certainty in terms of sanctions, legal certainty as regards the storage of documents for the new programme? It is incredible that a farmer with this legal instrument, with this Special Rural Development Directive, will be forced to retain the documents after the end of the funding period – that is, in 2020 – for another ten years. Mr. Minister, where do we live? What kind of condition is that? - Yes, you're right. [[Federal Minister Rupprechter: In Austria!]] We live in Austria, in a country where such conditions are possible, that fundamental rights are so disregarded. For it is also a fundamental right of farmers to be treated like any other economic operator in that country. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And there is a seven-year retention obligation for records, and not for ten and more, for 17 and more years. Mr Minister, we can only regulate this in a legal framework, in a law. I therefore call on you to finally submit this law and not continue to act in this way by believing, alone in the ministry, that it is possible to control all rural development by means of a special directive alone. [[Interference of Federal Minister Rupprechter.]] – You are speaking, Mr Federal Minister, you can then report yourself. I would like to express my thanks to all those farmers and organisations who have been active and fighting for their interests. Unfortunately, it is not the case that in Austria the small, ecological and circular farmers have the say, but the agricultural industry is constantly sparking in, for example in the investment sector. This is also the reason why you are reversing the funds – €400 million less in the programme period for farmers – but at the same time, Mr Schultes, you have greatly increased the investment support. These are funds for the economy, but not for agriculture. That is precisely why we do not agree with this report. In addition, I believe that you have also paid too little attention to organic farming. This was a perspective to see him as a model in Austria and thus to become a real pioneer in Europe, for an agriculture that is consumer-friendly, future-oriented and also secures agricultural jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e10848	I call Mr Preiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e10869	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Estimated young people here on the gallery and also at home on the televisions, a warm welcome to me. Today we are discussing the Green Report 2014 for the year 2013. I am very grateful to the experts, Mr Minister, but also to the members of the §-7 Commission for your cooperation in drawing up the Green Report. I would also like to express my sincere thanks to farmers for their work during 2013 and beyond – to all those who work either in the main acquisition or by-catch, who work in the organic farming sector or in conventional agriculture. A challenge to work day and night together with nature, to be outside every weather and also to be on the market. A warm thanks also for the fact that healthy food and food are produced and secured not only for the consumers in Austria, but also for the export. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The organic farming is the sign of Austria's agriculture. There we are European champions. However, we are also required not to stand still, but also to develop the bio-agricultural sector. To develop positively, for one thing is clear: A standstill means step back. I therefore call for more capital, more resources for organic farming in the coming years. I would like to mention that the small, family structures represent the backbone of agriculture in Austria. There is also a need to invest more strongly and sustainablely. The fairer distribution of funding is not just a keyword, since the new law on market regulation of levers has already been adopted accordingly in the past. The rural development programme, which, as we know, has not yet been positively returned to Austria by the EU Commission, goes in this direction. A short while ago, the FPÖ's motion for a resolution: We know that we have reached a ceiling of €150 000 in the case of direct payment entitlements in the ‘first pillar’ of the market, 100 percent taking into account labour costs, because we are important for the social democracy of every workplace – and not just the six mentioned earlier – in the rural regions, even in the less-favoured rural regions in economically challenging times. That's what we're doing. That's not a lip confession, that's what we stand for at any time. That is why we will also reject this motion for a resolution. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, GMO freedom not only in the field of seed, but also in the use of feed is a command of the hour, for which we are committed, also with the help of our Minister of Health. Of course, another export offensive is necessary, especially in view of the current Russian-Ukrainian crisis. I would like to thank the Minister for his initiatives on this subject. However, he is still required in persona to succeed in the corresponding sales markets. I hope that once again there will be a balanced trade balance in the export and import of agricultural products. However, there is also a positive report from the Green Report, namely that there is an increase in income in some permanent cultural holdings. For example, I mention only fruit production, there was also a small plus in the feed sector. The difference in income between green land farms and market fruit farms has become smaller. The equity ratio of agriculture and forestry has on average increased by approximately €6 500. I would also like to mention positively that the incomes of mining plants have increased modestly, but at least by 2%. I hope that the additional funds fixed from the compensation in the rural development programme will now be around € 290 million, according to the Minister's statement, 20 percent more than in the old programme, and will be more important for the mining plants of category III and IV. Dear ladies and gentlemen! It is also important for us that the bee protection programme is implemented quickly, that there is less use in the pesticides sector, and of course also that the report, as far as AMA-Marketing GmbH is concerned, is also presented here to the National Council in Bälde. A particular challenge, ladies and gentlemen, is, of course, climate change. Here, our Minister for Agriculture and the Environment is called upon to make a sustainable commitment to agriculture in Austria in the coming year 2015 at the climate conference in Paris. I would like to thank you very much for your attention and wish farmers all the best in their implementation with the new rural development programme 2015 to 2020.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e10934	The next speaker is Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e10955	Mr President. Estimated Minister! I can come back to what Mr Auer said. I also understand your complaints in such a way that now the poor cats have to stand by for the milk price to be wrong. That's why I think you keep it that way, because you also quoted the trees and the forests. You've been in government all the time. You have been in the government for over 10,000 days and now you are complaining about a wrong agricultural policy! How can I understand that? It seems to me like: What a concern the oak is when the sow scratches on it!Unknown term type: "%s".? – In this respect, poor farmers may also be those who suffer from a lack of agricultural policy. I must say that, unlike many other annual reports, the Green Report is indeed a very comprehensive summary, and also a readable summary. We have been criticized by the Minister – and he has criticised this in the Committee – that we cannot accept it. We cannot therefore agree because the 2013 data are, although this is the case here in 2014. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] – We were not there at the time and are not there for these reasons either. Let me mention three points which are quite problematic in the report, which are also issues such as farmers' incomes, self-sufficiency in imports and exports and also forestry. I should like to quote the press release of the Minister in which he refers to income per worker: “The income per worker has also fallen by 6% and at 20.236 euros was about 20% below the Austrian average.” Yes, that’s right and that’s unfortunate. But where does this lead if we do not at the same time create a barrier between tourism and agriculture? In my home town of Goldegg, for example, 117 farmers are auxiliary farmers. – Isn't that worrying? Is this not also a false development if we are not seeking, particularly in the western Länder, a better restriction of agricultural production with tourism? – There should also be mentality reform here. There should also be a change in the mentality of the agricultural representation on the part of the ÖVP. The following is also my heart: What we have been discussing over and over again in the last few days and in the committees has been export and own production. If we produce 107 percent pigmeat and still import it, then there is either a lack of transparency or a lack of other aspects of a proper policy. In this context, I should also like to refer once again to the withdrawal of the milk quota. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl.]] – I don’t think you need to be afraid at all, but I don’t want to have such discussions about cat milk because that’s the wrong approach. Believe me! You are now blaming the trade for the quotas to fall away, and at the same time you have to think about it. You put on the wrong horse or the wrong cow. You wanted to play with the big ones and instead you forgot to put the focus on the fine-cost shop Austria. This also concerns organic production and the small structure. You too have put entirely on the wrong horse or on the wrong cow. [[Congratulations with NEOS, Greens and Team Stronach.]] Finally, let me come back to the forestry production! In 2013, the timber impact was 17.39 million solid meters, 18 percent of them industrial wood, more than 50 percent sawwood and 30 percent energy wood. The impact can no longer be lifted at any time and the reserves are more likely to be seen with small forest properties. If I can believe the statements of the trade association of the wood industry – you, Mr. Minister, certainly know the newspaper article in the “Economic Sheet” – then we already have the overcapacity in the saw industry as a well-known problem here. What do we do about it? [[Abg. Eßl: Why is this a problem?]] – Because the wood industry, with its more than 10,000 workers, also has a problem. They try to play paper industry and wood industry against each other. That, I think, is also the wrong way. Let me conclude by saying that I do not think there is transparency here. We are also putting forward a motion for a resolution on AMA's agricultural market policy. In the same context, Mr Minister, you are welcome to criticize us. On the other hand, we are pleased to invite you all to your export offensive. This is also a wonderful thing to mention, one must also say, what you have done with South Korea in the process of Russia's departure. I also find great – and this also testifies to Openness and transparency in this respect – that you also want to take all of you from the Agriculture Committee to China. But at the same time I have to tell you: We cannot therefore agree because it is just data that were before our time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e11017	Mr Auer spoke in favour of an actual correction. I would like to draw attention to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e11041	Mr Schellhorn claimed that I had complained about the wrong agricultural policy. I'm actually correcting: I have condemned the price situation of trade, the unfair price policy on the basis of these examples. Mr Schellhorn, you should stick to the truth!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e11071	Mr Steinbichler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e11093	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Minister! In advance, I can say: Mr Auer, thank you for some of the arguments you have already used, which I can only underline. However, I also ask you to use your good network sometimes and also to have direct conversations with the trade, as of course some of your well-known networks also drown rural products. I am thinking of the butter action where there was a kilogram of Schärdinger tea butter for 1 €. I think that is beyond all praise, for which we have to pay the prices on the farm. Just as with cheese around €4.99, if you know you need 10 litres of full milk for a kilo of cheese. Ladies and gentlemen! Once we have to appeal to our cooperatives, to our processors and ask what you are doing on the back of our farmers. And if the green arrows stand outside the landscape, which indicate that it is going up and that agriculture is an economic engine, then it is correctly recognized. But, dear friends of the Farmers' Federation, who is responsible for stuttering this economic engine? Are these the agricultural chambers? Are those who say we are the power of the country? Who says the corn yield has increased by 43 percent? – The plant engineering director of the Upper Austria Chamber of Agriculture. A greater misinformation has not yet been contradicted in the last 50 years. – These are the facets we are talking about here. Minister, I'm disappointed. With these statements, with this constant appeal to consumers regarding apples, we may get rid of the reputation of the banana republic, but for apple farmers, it does not bring anything together, because the prices of apple farmers are disastrous. That's why we have the foreign apples there, and – even worse – the foreign concentrate, and then for our dear consumers, although this is not a partnership, we insist: Apple juice from Austria. That's exactly the subject. Thank you to the officials for this Green Report. We will agree, because that is no longer changeable, and I will also quote a few suggestions from the § 7 Commission. But, Minister, if you, from this Green Report with 5,50 € hourly wages, are deduced from weekend, Sunday and holiday service and less public money, as Mr Auer has said, that this means an investment offensive for agriculture, then I would ask if your colleagues, like Mr Mitterlehner, who has been sitting here this morning, cannot support you there. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Right!]] That is precisely the wrong decision. First, we need income for farmers so that they can even live. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and representatives of the Greens.]] It was talked about the vegetable farmers. I don't need to mention: If herb costs 7 cents when celery costs 20 cents, and then a discount is given for pieces sizes of less than 1 kilogram when cucumbers are not marketable over 12 cents, then we know how the reality looks outside. I said, when I started here, Let's talk about life! That reminds me a little of the morning. We can't talk about everything. The situation on the farms is currently dramatic. The prices are falling. We have prices like 40, 50 years ago, but costs that we do not need to discuss. If the diesel cost 6.45 schilling or 0.45 € in 1994 and today it costs 1.25 €, and today we no longer have an agricultural diesel refund, I ask everyone who spoke here: Who takes responsibility for this? Agro-diesel compensation has been abolished in this House, as we have to make a contribution to budget recovery on the part of agriculture. I do not know if Mr Neugebauer has also made a contribution, but you can discuss it internally. These are the facts. I would like to give an example: It is always said that the consumer has everything in his hand, and that one should buy regionally. This is about a new quality mark with which Austrian products are to be advertised, with the message: Look where it comes from! We finally need a state quality mark – I make a request – that guarantees: Where Austria insists, Austria is in it. The facts: I was wondering about my colleague Obernosterer, who spoke about the hotel industry and gastronomy. There will be another proposal, tomorrow, to the tourism report. It's clear to me that it's the next wholesale headquarters, no matter who you call it. But where the products come from, I think, you can see quite clearly: These are the so-called domestic fish, between cod and pangasius fillet. [[Abg. Obernoster: But they come from the sea, not from the farmer!]] And this is the latest steak, fresh from Argentina, Mr. Colleague, you can buy it. If you want, I'll give you the company number so you can get it fresh, fresh from Argentina. These are the new distribution centres! The largest cooling logistics is currently being opened in Sattledt on the pre-alpine cross. The more we talk about “regional”, the more transport routes become. I had it printed. [[The speaker shows a map of the way from Argentina to Europe.]] Argentina is just around the corner, 12,800 kilometers – wonderful! So no more is lied anywhere. There's the Hypo Alpe-Adria. It's a piece of shit against the fraud that's going off with the food. That too can be said in all clarity! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] A little example. It is a pity that the Green Members are no longer here. I would have liked to say something about garbage this afternoon or this morning. I have a wonderful new speciality, Mr Auer, I have taken with me Katzenkabanossi. [[The speaker holds a pack of cat sticks in height.]] Magnificent and a huge crowd inside: 18 grams. The greens talk about the plastic sackerl over and over again. We also need to see how much garbage is inside the Sackerl! That's why I need 56 packs for a kilogram! The kilogram of cat kabanossi costs 56 €! That's half a Sau, friends, and we're talking about food costs! That's a scandal! We need to talk about the truth, that's the decisive thing. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and representatives of the Greens.]] Life doesn't cost anything! We also need a new shopping cart, Minister. I suggested this to the §-7 Commission. We need the shopping cart of basic foods! We do not need the shopping cart of energy drinks, the shopping cart of mineral waters, the shopping cart of chips and thechokomüsli, but the shopping cart that is about life. Life with basic food costs only 4.5 percent. That's all a lie with the 12.5 percent! We've been playing the market. One has said it down because of course today vacation and leisure are in the foreground, and the food should not cost anything. We already had bread and games in history. Mr. Minister, you're required. You are the Minister for Austria, for Austrian consumers, for Austrian farmers, and you are really putting this at risk: the health of consumers and the continuation of Austrian small-structured agriculture. They just can't live anymore. It has been referred to, and this is another example: If the prices of beer are increased by 2.5 percent, which argues that wages have increased and the increasing focus on domestic raw materials, then they simply count differently from us, Mr. Cot. Because it is said that the domestic raw materials have become cheaper, but one uses this and says to the hosts that we are now doing more Austria, so the beer becomes more expensive – super. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Donate.]] There is a central question concerning the milk quota, Mr Minister, and that is a question of credibility for you as a minister, especially for the Chamber of Agriculture. The farmers have invested a lot of money for the milk quota. That's a property issue. This is certainly still being examined, because it is as easy as the legal position - which I would not have published if I took the subject seriously - can't be done. But now to signal the farmers: Good to see you when the quota is gone, because then the super-debt is gone, that's the greatest lie. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] Tell the farmers the truth! There is a Bernese study, dear Wolfgang Pirklhuber, that in the case of the milk quota the milk price will fall by 33 percent. Do you know what that means in the clear text? The dairy farmers should be happy. They then no longer pay for the delivered milk the super levy, but for the whole. You have to say that clearly now. Now agricultural chamber elections are coming, and I am convinced that is what has been said in all clarity. The debureaucratisation has already been addressed. – Mr Minister, I have a great request. This €60 million from the super levy, which is a calculable post. There are also some speculators who have sold the quota to their colleagues or neighbours, because they have said that it falls, and now they lament that they have to pay surplus tax. This is a speculation, I do not want to express myself, but please do not deliver these €60 million to Brussels! We use it here in Austria, either as a substitute for the agricultural diesel or as a working time premium for the wine-keeping, pig-bearing and poultry-keeping farms, because in the taxation – tag: new unit value – we also have the milk and meat supplement inside. So why can't I take it on the positive side? Or we're making a biodiversity premium. The Commission would have put the 178 questions on the Elf-meter point in Brussels – we saw it yesterday, against Brazil we used it. They have even mentioned why the issue of economic fertilizers and the circular economy is not more honoured, not only in the bio, but also in the conventional sector. I always say if people believe it must smell as good everywhere as at the golf course, then they have to think where the fertilizer comes from. And if it still smells, then we have that thank God, another circular economy. There is still the cycle plant – animal – fertilizer. We also need to bring normality back to the discussion rounds. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Of course, there would be much to say. I have taken up a lot of work for our urgent needs with the jobs. I believe that this is closely linked to the agricultural policy in the rural area. I can nevertheless mention a subject – an old product, but still up-to-date – regarding the substitutes in agriculture, please very much. [[The speaker keeps a can up to date.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] This replaces the most valuable hit-up, but is a chemical cream. It's also very bad with this one. We have twelve varieties, this is imported by the agricultural cooperative, which then says at the farmers' assembly: If we didn't have the Chinese market, it would be difficult now. This export lie is unbearable at all. Mr Minister and also Mr Vice-Kanzler Mitterlehner, thank you for trying to open up new markets. At the same time, however, I would also like to ask new importers to purchase something to export. Excuse me, then, if we export foreign goods as Austrian, I don't think this serves anyone else except some companies – Austrian mentality, brain, heart and hand – otherwise. That is why I am putting forward a motion for a resolution so that we can end these shortcomings in the protection of consumers, in order to protect agricultural agriculture, with a quality seal law. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – Look, that's your problem, because you're always on the sidewalk, and then you don't know what's been discussed and talked again. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and representatives of the NEOS.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That's the problem. President Schultes, you know it. You're President of the Chamber of Agriculture, but you're mainly concerned with other things. That's the problem. Good thing you don't play football because you're never on the field. And I'd like that much more from you. I'm sorry, it wasn't possible, you asked. I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I ask for support and approval. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] We ask - I believe we can go together, Mr President Schultes and all the Presidents of the Chamber of Agriculture - that Austria is finally in there, where Austria is on it. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e11255	Mr Steinbichler, I would ask you not to draw attention to the wind of the intestines of small birds in the speeches. The application is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e11337	Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Rupprechter has submitted an opinion on the matter. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e11358	Mr President. High house! The underlying income report, the Green Report 2014, on income development in 2013 actually provides for a decline of 6 percent in income in the second year in a row. In the previous year it was a minus of 8 percent. On average, all farms had an income of €25,698, and the labour force was €20,236. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Including social security contributions!]] Compared to the three-year average, this represented a minimum of 4 percent. It is indeed as explained in the debate that there is unfortunately little reason for hope in 2014 that there will be a turnaround of the trend. In particular, economic development and market development due to the Russian crisis contribute to this. The reasons for the negative income development were in particular the prices for oilseeds and cereals, a lower harvest, especially in the case of maize due to the dry period and increased expenditure on feed. In the investment sector, the increase in depreciation also contributed to negative income. Only the development was dampened by the positive development of milk prices and by the results in the field of forestry. At this point I would like to thank the farmers and also my employees very much. By volunteering their accounting data, farmers have contributed to the creation of this reference work. Together with the §-7 Commission, my employees have done excellent work to explain this reference and standard work. The budget in 2013 was €2,076 billion, also a 5% reduction, which was due to the loss of mineral oil tax compensation, with EU co-financed budget shares in the first pillar representing around 40 percent and in the second pillar rural development policy a figure of 60 percent. Overall, the EU accounted for 70 percent of this budget. The remaining 14 percent of the budget had been allocated to other national budget measures. The §-7 Commission has done so and has given nine recommendations by common accord. I see this as a very positive contribution from this institution. There were four recommendations in the field of plant protection products, a recommendation in the field of seeds and the conservation of biodiversity, in particular in the context of the Seed Regulation, a recommendation relating to the Free Trade Agreement with the USA, TTIP, and a recommendation to strengthen endangered regions. I actually see this as an active and constructive contribution to a living democracy in Austria. I would like to thank the §-7 Commission, the Members of Parliament, the experts and my employees who have also set out this recommendation in such an exemplary way. It is all the more surprising to me that representatives of the opposition parties today report that they reject this report and therefore reject its recommendations for action. The Austrian Federal Government and the High House have already implemented the recommendations for action by making decisions to define the framework conditions for the period 2015 to 2020. We decided here in the House before the summer to amend the Market Regulation Act, which laid down the new regional model for direct payments by 2020 and successfully implemented the reform of the common agricultural policy in the first pillar. We have launched a rural development programme, we have completed it in less than a year. We have set up a programme volume of €1.1 billion, together with the federal states under the co-financing of the European Union. I can tell you today that Commissioner Hogan called me yesterday and just told me that the Austrian programme, as it was submitted by us last week, will be approved before Christmas as one of a total of six programmes from a total of 118 programmes submitted and we will be one of the first national programmes to be approved. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] We are indeed creating legal certainty by 2020 with a programme in which we provide for the consistent greening of Austrian agriculture with an agricultural environment programme and with the increased support of organic farming to a total of €430 million per anno. We are creating a compensatory allowance where, even compared to the previous period, consideration is given to the top-ups, which are now possible up to a level of €35 million by the federal states, a programme volume for less favoured areas and mountain areas, which is even greater than in the previous year. We have realized here that we can achieve more with less resources and that we are actually making more money available to farmers and mountain farmers. [[Prolonged calls of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] We have expanded the investment volume. This is right because these are the most efficient measures. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: efficient for the economy, but not for farmers!]] 1 € triggers projects and value added of 4 €. We have therefore deliberately foreseen an increase in the volume of the medium by almost a quarter. And what's very important to me is: The support of young farmers was almost doubled in both the first and the second columns. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Together with the measures for education and advice and the new innovative measures in the field of social services with a volume of € 118 million and the expansion of broadband infrastructure in rural areas, we have taken care of the future of Austrian farmers. I'm appealing to you: Rethink that again! Those who do not agree with this report underestimate the work done by farmers, those who do not agree, underestimate the work of my employees and lead the work of their representatives and experts in the §-7-Commission ad absurdum. They therefore render a very bad service to farmers, and thus they do bear service to Austrian parliamentarianism. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Call the FPÖ: That is not true at all!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We, the Austrian Federal Government and the majority of the Austrian National Council, have reached the right conclusions, have created the right framework conditions in a difficult environment, and have therefore assumed responsibility for the future of our farmers in a viable rural area – for a life-worthy Austria! Thank you. [[Call the FPÖ: Awesome!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e11461	Mr Pirklhuber spoke on an actual correction. You are aware of the specific provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e11485	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I haven't experienced this for a long time, that a minister has given so much opportunity to make an actual correction. [[Abg. Kogler: Don't go out in 2 minutes!]] I try to explain in the first part of the actual correction which part of the remarks of the Minister I would like to make. Mr. Federal Minister, you have here claimed that all those, in particular those who reject the Green Report, so that the recommendations for action of the § 7 Commission are also rejected. And you have also stated, at the end of your remarks, that all those who reject the Green Report also underestimate the work of farmers, the employees of your home, and also underestimate those who participate in the §-7 commission on our behalf. I'm actually correcting that all this is not the case. I've got a very clear way. 8 para. 1 Z 3 of the Agricultural Act, which provides, Minister of Agriculture, that that §-7-Commission must be involved in the preparation of the Funding Guidelines. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl.]] This report does not refer to these rights of participation. No word on that! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Eßl.]] That is the reason for the rejection of the Green Report, everything else is your interpretation, but does not correspond to the facts. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e11542	Mr Schellhorn spoke in favour of an actual correction. I would like to draw your attention once again to the specific provisions of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e11578	Minister! I, too, make an actual correction: If we do not agree with this, then in no way does this mean that we are underestimating the workers and underestimation of the rural population, and that does not mean that we do not support the measures. The facts and facts are all on their own. These of 2013 are in the 2014 report – that was well known before the time of NEOS. Now it's a little different, and now the clocks are going differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e11612	Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to ask you once again to look at the Rules of Procedure very carefully, which will be correct in actual terms. [[Abg. Eßl: Reasonable time count!]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e11681	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! At the beginning, I would like to particularly welcome the group of visitors from my hometown southeastern Styria. – Thank you for coming, and I wish you a nice stay here in Vienna! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ as well as with representatives of Greens and Team Stronach.]] The Green Report is a successful work, a reference work for all who have to do with agriculture. Mr. Federal Minister! There has been massive loss of income in agriculture due to EU sanctions against Russia. Overall, we speak of €55 million in the fruit and vegetable sector. We have lost a market with Russia, as it is very difficult to regain it. You will write in a request response that the EU will make €125 million of compensation payments available. – Dear Mr. Federal Minister! Who will get them, who gets these 125 million €? Are these the farmers, the production plants, the trade chains? Who of the interested parties in Austria will receive this €125 million? There has been enormous damage in the area of fruit making. An entrepreneur from Styria, Frutura, for example, immediately lost 500 tonnes of apples after these sanctions were announced. This order has been canceled. We have really lost a long-term partner with Russia. Mr. Federal Minister! In the Committee last week, we have discussed intensively the need to keep documents in Public Health 2015 for farmers. Farmers now have to keep relevant documents under ÖPUL 2015 for ten years from the end of the funding period. This will extend the retention obligation for a possible on-the-spot check by the AMA to 16 years for the 2015 records and documents. The agricultural market Austria is entitled to control documents for 2015 in 2030. Financial documents, accounting documents, must be kept for seven years. [[Call to the ÖVP:We already heard today!]] – That’s a good thing too! Maybe you should hear it again, because you still don't know. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Anyone who in practice has to do with the records, certificates and confirmations – seed calculations, training certificates and, and – knows that certain-te proofs are not even legible after three years. That is, the Scriptures are bleak. This is not even understandable for the controller. Mr Federal Minister, what about the rules on company transfers? Do funding funds have to be repaid by a successor for a certain period of time in which he himself had no responsibility? We demand an audit period of the AMA equal to that of the accounting for finances: for funding for the year 2015 the latest test option 2022, funding year 2016 the latest test option 2023 and the following. That's our demand. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e11741	Mr deputies, it must be called ‘commitment period’ instead of ‘test period’, is that correct? [[Abg.: (on the way to his seat) Is correct!]] The application is thus sufficiently supported and properly submitted. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e11842	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Schools. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e11863	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen in the House! The Green Report is always a valuable and readable document, even if you do not always have to enjoy what is in it. The last Green Report on 2013 reports on a year that has been difficult for some areas, both from nature and from markets. We also know that in the milk sector, the Austrian export efforts have been successful thanks to God and we have received good prices for our products in export. Similarly, the wood market has not developed so badly, and we see that the combination of energetic use, paper, sandwood, and the technical use of wood as construction wood makes a very good development possible for our forestry industry. Every area needs to develop well, then it can work. We need the energy as well as the use in construction. The new developments, the new common agricultural policy and the measures to promote rural development have now been discussed. Mr Federal Minister, I would like to congratulate you very warmly at this point. You were the first to present a programme among the European colleagues. We know that the programme is so far under negotiation that we can go to work with the contents we now know. Thank you and your employees for the great work that has been done there! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This new programme will give us the answers to those questions raised by the Green Report. We know that in some regions work by nature and by geographical conditions is very, very difficult. I call the miners, I call the pastures. We also know, however, that the less favoured areas are also disadvantaged if winter lasts a long time. And we know that in these areas we have to offer measures that contribute, in particular, to the sustainability of farms. At the same time, we know that, from the European context, we are increasingly faced with the fact that companies in production have to bring productivity to an ever-increasing level of competition. That is why we have to try to help these farms, because the risk cover over the compensation they have had so far will be reduced. We must therefore help these companies to develop new risk-covering models and help them to make the necessary investments in order to be sustainable. We also need to do something about the costs. We know very well that in recent years agricultural diesel taxation has been increased in the surrounding countries and it has made competition necessary, this agricultural diesel tax also in Austria – Leo, I have listened to you too. [[Abg. Steinbichler: Mr. colleague, how did you vote? Did you vote with a yes or no?]] [[Abg. Steinbichler: Did you vote with Yes or No in the vote?]] – It was necessary to reverse the agricultural diesel compensation in Loipersdorf. We know, however, that in Germany and in the Czech Republic agricultural diesel compensation has now been reintroduced; this has only happened. That is why we are now in the competition to see that we are those with the most expensive agricultural diesel in Europe. Of course, a demand from our farmers' representatives – for a long time – is that this issue also needs to be re-examined and that agricultural diesel compensation should come for the production of competitive justice for the producing farms. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Steinbichler.]] I am pleased if other political groups would like to support this. Ladies and gentlemen! Austrian agriculture has proven that it can offer products of the highest quality. These products in world top quality will not exist if you can pay only cheap prices for them. Therefore, I call on everyone to finally give up the theatre in order to give up the cheap prices and to ask and allow value-added prices for quality foods. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] I also expressly say this to the colleagues of the Social Democratic Party. I expressly say this to the buyers of the trade chains. Valuable handling means that any market situation should not be used as a price-pressive extortion action. The Austrian products are high-quality and must also be able to be sold in difficult times, taking into account the costs they bring. Therefore, prices are necessary, from which we can really live. The Green Report for 2014 will also bring difficult figures, and we will see that we now have a time of change in agriculture, which is increasingly leading us to see that the market, the customer, is important to us. The loyalty of Austrian customers is particularly important to us. That is why the offer of agriculture: We will continue to offer you the best products, but you will also pay prices from which you can live! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e11931	Next speaker: Mr Willi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e11952	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen in here and on the televisions! It is impossible to deal with this thick book, the Green Report, in 4 minutes. But we have a very touching minister, and thanks to his presence in the Committee on Agriculture, I am now able to do so. I would like to return to the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture last week. It was just before the “Day of Apple. ” The Minister proudly said that his action, namely that the Austrians should eat many apples because they were healthy and a protest because Putin imposed sanctions, was a success because it had led to stronger domestic apple sales. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] Mr. Minister, your apple action was a complete success. They have also rightly pointed out that this is an example of regional routes, of regional agriculture, for short distances. In short, this is the idea of agriculture you have. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the ÖVP.]] Then the swing comes, then the Minister reported that he was in China and Korea and had achieved the following: an export offensive new. – Green Export offensive New, he says. [[Federal Minister Rupprechter: Green export offensive!]] And what is that? – We are now finally allowed to export pork from Austria to China, to Korea and soon also to the Philippines. He did. I have already thought that we not only have a Minister for Agriculture Rupprechter, no, we obviously also have a Minister for Trade Rupprechter. Then I applied: Yes, but, Minister, is it possible to send pigmeat from Austria to the other end of the world in times of the climate disaster? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] His answer was: Yes, because the pigs in Austria are produced in a sustainable way, and it is better than they would otherwise not be produced in a sustainable manner and then sent to Korea or China by these non-sustainable pigs. [[Call to the FPÖ: ‘Produced’?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Steinbichler: This is a compensation!]] We all know, Minister, that you are in Lima in one month at the World Climate Conference. Do you know how the Austrian farmers produce pigs? – Austria imports 600 000 tonnes of soybean red from Argentina, primarily from Brazil, 90 percent of which is genetically modified. So we're going to take half the world to our country. Then our farmers breed good pigs. And if the piggy has the slaughter weight, what, do you think, then cost 1 kilo of pigmeat? [[The speaker packs a piece of meat out of a fabric bag and keeps it in height.]] For this, the farmer – in the report inside, page 50 – gets an average of €1.75. - Even less. [[Abg. Auer: Not at the moment!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] And the coverage contribution of a pig for the farmer is 18 € according to Green Report. That means the farmer feeds and does everything and gets 18 € for it. So we have produced this pig meat with soybean, genetically modified, from Brazil and then we export it to China and Korea thanks to our Minister. That's an ecological footprint, that's crazy! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the Stronach team.]] And you say that's a great, innovative agricultural policy. – Mr Minister, you are insulting your intelligence, you are insulting my intelligence if you believe that this is an agricultural policy of the future. We've seen this morning in the middle of Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner, who said in the direction of the Greens: You do not tell us where it goes, we know it ourselves, because we are the representatives of the eco-social market economy! [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the ÖVP.]] Where is the eco-social market economy? What is ecological about importing 600 000 tonnes of genetically modified soybean red – around half the world – and then exporting pigs – once again around the world – to China and Korea?- Oh, my God! What's ecological? And what is social if the farmer stays 18 € for a pig?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Steinbichler: Biogas!]] It's all crazy! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Mr Minister, this is precisely why we reject your Green Report because it reflects this contradiction of agricultural policy in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e12101	Mrs Gusenbauer-Jäger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e12122	Mr President. Minister! High house! Values Advisors here in the house and in front of the screens! The Green Report, which we are discussing today, provides proof of what happened in the field of agriculture and rural areas, where, and how many, for example, funding has flown. At the same time, this report also describes what is currently the situation in rural areas and thus in the affected groups. The Green Report 2014, in fact 2013, shows us, however, that the income of mining plants is stagnating or is still a long way off. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neubauer]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Doppler.]] He also shows that the miners, including the promotion of steep areas and the reduction allowance, continue to depend far on the so-called favours, namely about 20 percent on income. From this point of view, of course, the demand for higher funding in these less favoured areas is pressing. In particular, the SPÖ has committed itself to promoting the mining industry in groups 3 and 4. We hope that the new rural development programme will actually correspond to this support and, for example, includes the 10 percent increase in investment. However, it would be completely incomprehensible if so-called mining plants of the difficulty class – and if the word “zero” were to be broken on the tongue – were to receive additional funding of 25 percent per hectare. For this reason, we Socialists have long called for a redistribution of funding, from land support to the promotion of labour force and the use of labour. Still about a third of all farms receive about €2 100 on average and thus 6 percent of the total funding volume, while on the other hand only 2% of the farms, i.e. those at the top of the average, get about €75 000, which is 12 percent of the funding. So the redistribution from top to bottom is required. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The report also notes that in Austria we mainly have family farms, 92 percent with rather small structures. However, the trend towards larger farms is noticeable and continues. And that is precisely where we can, with a support for these micro and micro-enterprises, also counteract this strikingly large farm heritage. It is very important that we receive the courts. Therefore, the solution to our agriculture lies in the massive promotion of mining workers, the preservation of family farms and the production of products, made in A, characterized by quality rather than mass. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e12189	Next speaker: Mr Riemer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e12210	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! In advance, please: So what we had to hear today was already a foul, a depression! Approximately: Whoever does not agree to the report does not appreciate the farmers, and so on! – How deep does one have to sink democracy policy in order to make such statements? I take care of it! [[Congratulation with FPÖ and Greens.]] In addition, I am not used to this from you, Mr Minister, because in your foreword you can read: Family holdings, UN-funded: “I will continue to work tirelessly to strengthen the value of agriculture in the awareness of the population. However, the large benefits of the domestic farms must also be paid accordingly.” And continue to say that we have to draw the conclusions that take up the problems. – Yes, we have problems, but where are the offers, the solutions? - Zero. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] If you would like to explain to me: We discuss funding, but we play organic agriculture against conventional agriculture! – That’s pointless, please, it’s about something completely different. I have rightly heard that they thank the farmers. That's not cynicism, you should do it! In 2010, there were around 173,000 farmers, i.e. farms, and in 2013 there were 167 000. In 1995 it was 239,000. This is a minus of 72,000 farms. Let us thank them today, because tomorrow we may not have an opportunity to do so at all. That is the question: How many farmers are there in five years, in ten years? That is what the report says, but it encrypts in percentages. You have to calculate that yourself. 72,000 businesses would correspond to a city like Leoben, Bregenz, Leibnitz, Eisenstadt. And if you calculate two or three times that, then we come to 200 000 to 250 000 inhabitants. This means pressure on the labour market. This also means pressure on rural regions. It doesn't help to make regional programmes. We do a lot of programs, pay high-dozen studies, and we don't have any more rooms where there are people where there are still schools. That's crazy, please! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Steinbichler.]] The report is already in order, only we give: Thematic miss! That is why I would say that all Members' contributions that have been made today – all of them from all political groups – were already in order. That also means we need a national shoulder closure. It is no longer about the Farmers' Federation et cetera, which is about the introduced, namely the farmers. That's what it's all about! And to do that, we need the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Economic Affairs. Everyone says: eco-social market economy, eco-social finance, eco-social agriculture. Please, what does that mean? For whom? - We don't have farmers anymore. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] The income situation has been mentioned, which I no longer need to strip: 25 000 €, “minus 6 percent ” stands in there so lapidar. There is not even inflation, I believe, included. What income loss people have, We're not talking about it. But one should talk about the following: We must finally free the peasants from the property, get out of the whole jungle! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Steinbichler.]] These are farms, and the economic performance of the farmers is enormous. For example, consider: The agricultural machinery sector accounts for 1.9 billion, 44 farms with 5 600 employees. The cooperatives – only a few points – have 12,000 employees and make up 1,000 apprentices. - Shut up, please. Food producing establishments: There are 4 316 with 44 000 or 45 000 employees, and so on. So the farmer doesn't need to be a beggar, he has to be supported accordingly! One essential factor, of course, is also inside, namely this recommendation by the §-7 Commission. The Federal Minister is right – I very much appreciate him too, so I was so scared today, I will still suffer in a sustainable way, I do not know you that way. [[Rejoicing with Federal Minister Rupprechter.]] How important are the next elections for you? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] One thing is right: They have not really closed a subject, namely the topic of plant protection. I would also like to know more. I know this hurts the farmers, but we have to talk about it, because with it our water, the food, everything depends on it. In 2013, we scattered 10 728 tonnes of plant protection products. This is a plus of 337 tons compared to 2012. I know that hurts the farmers. I know it hurts our region, but we have to think about it and talk about it – no pre-conception, but we have to talk about what we are doing. And this with fewer farms! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] The history of these companies is also very interesting. About 93 percent are family businesses, 7 percent are others: Societies, other forms, agricultural holding, as always called. But this 7 percent belongs to 40 percent of the area. There you have to start thinking, it can't be. I come to the conclusion: But let's also think about animal welfare. There's really a lot going on with the farmers. Thank you. But these are minimum standards. In fact, there are in the street checks, 1 000 are required, 1 230 have been carried out, there have been 360 infringements. That means, not at the place of dispatch, the mistakes happened, but on the street. Yes, we also have to intervene if we are already very proud to say that we have animal protection in a marginal note somewhere in the Constitution! That's part of it. Food safety, of course, is part of that. However, in the field of operational controls, I am proud that 15 percent have been challenged. That's where we need to talk! 15 percent means every sixth sample is not all right. The farmer comes to something great – let's free him, once again, from being a servant –: He is responsible for the cultural landscape. 11 percent of guest beds in Austria are in farms. 11 percent! That's something special. Bravo! I think Russia's crisis back or forth, we shouldn't be looking for new markets if there's a crisis. Yesterday we should have looked for her; before yesterday we should have looked for her. That's crucial. That is why I am reading from the conclusion of the current research work for farmed family farms. That made me a little stupid. It is in there – contrary to what I heard today – that: Future, importance, global business environment and difficulties. It's becoming other organizational forums. It is recommended that: Agricultural holdings, legal groups or Sowing Pools, and so on. I'll tell you one thing: This report already says that the small farmer has died. Small-scale structure in Austria, quo vadis? Let's put it together, let's make it survive at all, because next year the same thing is inside: Minus, Minus, Minus. And next year? - Minus, Minus, Minus. I don't need to be a prophet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e12362	Mr Grillitsch has come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e12384	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to turn to the farmers who manage their farms with great responsibility and competence every day – faithfully managed, sustainablely managed, over generations. I say this despite this discussion, which you have to experience here, despite this political discussion. I am actually disappointed because, after the last meeting in the Committee on Agriculture, I meant that all the political groups here in this House would have recognized that farmers did not deserve to be constantly placed as a poison squirt, as animal torture, as a tax-privileged or as a beneficiary. That was the case in the Committee, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] But the discussion here: Hardly television is involved, many representatives already feel obliged to polarize against the farmers! [[Abg. Brunner: Not against the farmers!]] Stop it! The farmers didn't deserve this, ladies and gentlemen. Let's work the farmers! Let us create framework conditions so that they can gladly manage their farms so that they can gladly produce high-quality foods, which you can then enjoy every day! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] The farmers show responsibility and competence every day for 18 million animals, and here they are constantly placed as animal tortures. Let us stop these insecure discussions! [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] Mr Willi, Mr Pirklhuber, you have today referred to our Vice-President Mitterlehner and said that we did not understand the eco-social market economy. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Yes, I am here!]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Minus 10 percent income for farmers!]] – Very well, we have been living the eco-social market economy for 25 years! [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Tell the 100 000 farmers!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riemer.]] We ensure - and this also applies to farmers - that we have economically strong farms so that we can afford the two further pillars, namely the social and the ecological ones. This is eco-social agricultural policy, which is eco-social economic policy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Tell the dairy farmers in the Steiermark, Grillitsch, from your isolation!]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ and the Abg. Steinbichler.]] They constantly want to hear, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, but the problem is: You haven't heard the eco-social market economy yet, ladies and gentlemen, that's the truth! Let's say that! [[Subsequent calls to the FPÖ and to Mr Pirklhuber and Mr Steinbichler.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I admit that we have a problem with this globalized world, we have a problem with these trade concentrations, we have a problem when it comes to getting fair prices. That's why I ask you and appeal to all of you here in this house: Let us help that not only a few constantly maximize profits and sales, but that there is a fair balance in the value chain for both farmers and consumers.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e12522	I call Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e12544	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Green Report 2014: I should like to thank the farmers, farmers, rural youth for their work, for their commitment and for the management of their farms, dear friends. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the Member States.]] However, I should also like to thank Mr Rupprechter for the state of this report. He's a very good reference work, but hopefully not a history book. I told you last time, last year. I think it's important. You have written in your foreword to this Green Report, Minister Rupprechter: “Look to the future together”. – Mr Minister, together is already right, but the future for agriculture does not look so rosy. Income decreased by around 6 percent, while the value of agricultural and forestry production decreased by 2.2 percent in 2013 to around €8.74 billion. In 2013 – Mr Riemer has already mentioned it – there were 167 500 agricultural and forestry farms in Austria, which is a 3 percent reduction compared to 2010. In 1995, there were 239 100 farms, which is a decline of 71 600 farms by 2013. Of course it is also very worrying: Since 2003, some 2,300 farms have given up per year. We must fight against the deaths of farmers, ladies and gentlemen. The problem of pastures was also not helpful, nor is it entirely guiltless. Many alpine farmers, Minister Rupprechter, have not yet received a notice, but only an information sheet or a letter of information. You need to know, that's quite, very important. Minister! High house! What the farmers and the farmers can do, I can say, Mr Auer, is not a cow's skin. I have to say this honestly whether it is the dungeon order for mining plants, whether it is the landscape elements, the shrubs, the fruit trees or – colleague Jannach mentioned it – the trees in the fields where you have only one margin of two trees, otherwise you have to pay punishment. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I have one more point to make, one aspect of these wild corridors. The European Union wants to identify so-called green and wild corridors in this country, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. We in Salzburg, in Pinzgau, in Oberpinzgau, tried to implement these measures – the European Union through the countries. It's a pure country thing. I have addressed a written question to you, Mr Rupprechter, and you have answered me that this would be purely country-related – I take note of that. Only it cannot be, ladies and gentlemen, that the European Union, through the countries to the communities, simply passes through the farmers, through the land owners. The farmer no longer knows if he can set up a fence there, whether he can build a collection house. Ladies and gentlemen, we strongly reject such machinations from the FPÖ. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e12605	Mrs Gessl-Ranftl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e12626	Mr President. Minister! High house! First of all, a warm thanks to all farmers for their commitment, for their commitment. My previous speakers have already said much about figures, facts and data on the Green Report, and I would like to refer specifically to Chapter 3, 'agricultural structures and employment', as regards women in agriculture. Women in agriculture play an increasingly important role, and in recent years women have increasingly taken over leadership in agricultural holdings. This is also confirmed by the Green Report, as the average female share is 36 percent according to Inveko's 2013 data, and this share is very high in Europe-wide comparison. If you look at the age, you realize that the proportion of managers increases with increasing age. In the age class from 40 onwards, the number continuously increases, between 40 and 50 the number reaches even 36 percent and between 50 and 60 44 percent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] On the basis of these figures, it is made clear that women are in a responsible position not only in the economy, but also more often in the agriculture dominated abroad by men. I also trust to say that without the commitment of women, agriculture would certainly not work so well. [[As a result of the SPÖ, representatives of the ÖVP and Deputies Doppler and Köchl.]] However, since women take responsibility not only for the farm but also for 77 percent child care and 80 percent care for families – 23 percent are also active in agriculture – the expansion of social services would bring them a significant relief. Social services are an important milestone, and it was important and right that SPÖs have made massive efforts in the government negotiations to finally devote funds to EU funding to social services. 3 per cent of this so-called EAFRD funding – which has already been mentioned by the Minister before – is worth € 118.3 million – will provide social services such as childcare, education, health, as well as care. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Including co-financing, this in absolute terms means a volume of almost EUR 240 million over the next seven years. In summary, it can be said that in the last decade the image of women in agriculture has changed considerably and agriculture is becoming more and more a matter of women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e12694	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Hauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e12717	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The figures on the Green Report have been repeated several times, and they speak a clear language. The situation in agriculture is a very difficult one. In the last ten years alone, 22 900 farms have ceased. A loss of income of 6 percent in the last year alone speaks a clear language, since we do not need to repeat the other facts at all. Only the development of agriculture is, of course, directly linked to rural areas in general, because agriculture is rural areas. And considering that two thirds of the population live in rural areas, that in rural areas 35 percent of gross value added is achieved, that the rural area is also a growth engine that produces high-quality food in rural areas and so on, the importance and necessity of rural areas is stoned and clear. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Each of us knows that in rural areas, farmers, mountain farming, agriculture are necessary, yes, essential for flourishing tourism, for rural safety. meadows that are not mowed, of course, cause an enormous additional avalanche danger in winter. The culture, the landscape, all of this, is, of course, linked to agricultural work, and so, from our point of view, it is from a liberal point of view, a need to stand behind the mountain farming, because agriculture is directly linked to the rural area. So, what's to do? – A lot has already been mentioned today. I think we have great opportunities to intensify cooperation between agriculture and tourism. Austria records 140 million nights per year – an incredible potential. We must do everything here in order to force direct marketing between agriculture and tourism, of course also facilitated and not hampered by bureaucratic barriers. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ as well as by Mr Steinbichler and Mr Königsberger-Ludwig.]] Fair value chains have been addressed – perfectly correct – and quality labels have been mentioned – where Austria insists, Austria must be inside, even that is important and correct. A fair system of support, especially in agricultural support, where transfers are to be reduced specifically for foundations, funds and so on, was also addressed by us today. But in an area which, from my point of view, is always too short in the debate, I would like to address personally, namely the financial compensation. The financial compensation will be renegotiated. And, Minister, if, for example, I hear from Chancellor Faymann that in the case of a future tax package, one is trying to save € 1 billion on the financial compensation, that means that € 1 billion is less in the countries and in the communities. This is exactly the amount that has been negotiated about rural development. That is, on the one hand, about the rural development of €1.1 billion, which the Federal Chancellor then wants to save again, which, of course, weakens rural areas. That can't and can't be it at all! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Steinbichler.]] This is a point that we really need to consider, and I would ask you, Minister Rupprechter, to really look at the fact that in financial compensation, rural regions are finally being forced and strengthened – which has not happened at all in the past. In addition, from our point of view, it should be noted that, at last, a fair and fair financial compensation is at all possible that it: There is a fair headline, because at present they are also disadvantaged in rural areas. In cities with more than 50,000 inhabitants, there is almost twice as much money per capita as in municipalities with less than 10,000 inhabitants. It's not understandable. After the Second World War, it was clear: The cities have had huge destructions, and this unjust financial compensation has developed on them. But now the rural area needs this strengthening. The rural area needs to be preserved, and therefore it must be looked at that first of all when financial compensation is not saved, and secondly in the future it will finally be possible to achieve a fair financial compensation, where every resident is equally valuable, whether he lives in Vienna or in the outermost Tyrol. This is necessary and important if we are to ensure that the rural area is not further diluted.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e12793	Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party to the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e12815	Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would like to welcome my guests and friends from the Innviertel quite cordially! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] – Mr President, I would like to thank you for your support. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear farmers! Estimated consumers! The Green Report has brought back to life: Farmers are not well. We have 6 percent income loss. On average, we have 20 236 € per farmer. The average Austrian earns €25,373. That should make us think. How can you counter this? – I must congratulate the Federal Minister very warmly, and I do not see this as Georg Willi did, who said that the development of new markets is not ecological. That is clear, but in agriculture we have a constant up and down, and I therefore believe that it is all the more important to have found these markets. Other points are, of course, higher education and the awarding, the fair allocation of food. I believe that we need action, and of course every consumer can support the farmers by buying local food. Yes, the local food is the best quality, they come from our region and, of course, they also get jobs in our region. For this, I believe, we must thank our farmers very much. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As far as the economic performance of our agriculture is concerned, we produce goods worth €8.4 billion – just to bring it back to our minds again – and with the areas in stock and downstream it is at least €37 billion. This illustrates the importance of agriculture in the economy. Therefore, it cannot be that we are constantly exerting new pressure on our farmers by demanding more and more wealth taxes, but I think we must try to encourage the sale of food, especially in the public sector – in hospitals, in schools, in old and nursing homes. It is therefore all the more important that the EU procurement directives be implemented in Austria as soon as possible, not just on the hard facts – so what does that cost? – but of course also about the soft facts, i.e. the jobs behind them, the apprenticeship training that takes place in these establishments, the supply of food and the short supply routes. It's just these things. and then it is open to our food dealers to offer here and to reopen the market in order to add our products. Therefore: Regional added value, increased appreciation of food, increased appreciation of agriculture secures jobs in rural areas, secures Austria's own supply, and makes us independent of low-cost imports of food, which are often produced under very different plant and animal protection standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e12878	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Rupprechter. Mr Bundesminister, for Your schedule: I must interrupt the negotiations at 3 p.m. to deal with the urgent question. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e12899	Mr President. High house! Allow me to comment briefly on a few questions, but also allow me to welcome the Innviertler students of the technical schools. You will be accompanied by two school colleagues who work in school education. This gives me the opportunity to express once again the importance of education in the rural regions and how important these different schools are to me, and I therefore also express a clear commitment to the financing of the agricultural school system, together with the federal states – and this is very important to me for the future. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of Greens and Team Stronach.]] Our farmers deserve our appreciation. This appreciation is expressed by taking note of a difficult income situation as described in this Green Report. The lack of knowledge and the rejection of this report express the opposite. I said that in my in-depth remarks. In the same way, the appreciation is expressed when the necessary measures are adopted by a majority in Parliament, just as we adopted the Market Regulation Act by a large majority of the government coalition before the summer, thus creating legal certainty for the period 2015 to 2020. Furthermore, the rural development package, which has been tied up and is now approved by the European Commission, expresses this appreciation. Mr Jannach. On the topic of almen – also MP Doppler has spoken about this – only as much: We have largely disincentived the problem of pastures. On the basis of the decisions of the Market Regulation Act here in the High House before the summer, 12 million € have been returned to farmers in the meantime. Just yesterday, with the autumn payment, the biggest tranche, that is, €5.3 million, was returned, and with the new model, we have put the support of the pasture for the future on a reasonable basis, which is expressing this appreciation for the alpine farmers. [[Abg. Doppler: Where's the notification?]] Mr deputies, the money is on the accounts. That's where the farmer no longer needs to know, Mr Doppler. Mr Jannach, you have referred to the landscape elements. We have debated this in detail in the Committee on Agriculture, and I have also explained why it has become necessary to cover the landscape elements. You know that this is due to the recommendations of the European Commission and the European Court of Auditors, but also to the Austrian Court of Auditors, the control instrument of the Austrian Parliament. I think you can ask the President; he is, I think, from your group. We need to implement, control and capture the landscape elements here. I have commissioned that this is done in a pragmatic way, and for the future, participation in the UBB, in measures for biodiversity-enhancing management, is an element. The farmer knows, if he participates in it, he must also receive the appropriate landscape elements. Mr Deputies Rauch and Mr Jannach. You have referred to this: As far as storage periods are concerned, we agree; it was a cross-group assessment that these storage periods should be adjusted. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Where is the initiative of your house?]] I will also take up this initiative, and I believe that there was a genuine consensus in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: There is no word in the report. Not a word!]] Now to you, Mr Pirklhuber. Because you have failed to participate in the rural development programme: At the end of July, the European Commission sent us 176 questions which we have dealt with in the meantime. On the day when this Communication from the European Commission was received, I invited the agricultural speakers of all political groups, twice – at the end of July, at the beginning of August, I think it was, and early September. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Now it's coming back!]] Who wasn't there? Who didn't help? Mr Pirklhuber. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: (Keeping the Green Report in height) This is the report we are negotiating today! You're talking about something completely different!]] Where were you when it was about participating? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] So please don't be so full of mouths here! [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Where is your measure? This is the item on the agenda! – The colleague of the government bank is particularly original! He doesn't know what the talk is about! That's on the agenda! That's what's on the agenda!]] Mr Willi, you really disappointed me. We have a comprehensive ecologicalisation of agriculture in Austria, and every product from Austria, from Austria, has a significantly better ecological footprint than any overseas agricultural product. I thought the Tyrolean Greens were a little more pragmatic, but you proved that the Tyrolean Greens, as well as the remaining Group of Fundamental Opposition, have committed themselves. Mr Schellhorn, the reason why you do not agree to the Green Report, because "2014" is on it, is only clear. This is the precise definition of the text of Section 9 of the Agricultural Act. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e13034	Ladies and gentlemen! I was informed that the entry into the agenda took place at 12.05 a.m. The urgent request is therefore called at 15.05 p.m. Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig, I ask you to speak.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e13061	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would like to begin by saying that I believe that all of us who sit here appreciate the achievements of farmers – I am convinced – because of the high quality that farmers provide, and also because of the fact that they keep our cultural landscape, which we are all so proud of, in a truly super-beautiful state. I would like to stress that this is not the monopoly of the ÖVP and the Farmers' Federation, but that we appreciate all these achievements, but it must also be allowed for criticism and critical discussion of the Green Report. [[Abg. Aure: Hopefully!]] I'd like to say that at the beginning. [[Congratulations on Members of the FPÖ and Greens.]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) If you look at the Green Report, I believe that you should not put farmers' deaths on your shoulder, because it is true that since 2003, some 2,300 farmers have given up every year. Mr Auer, this is not just an Austrian phenomenon, it is also an EU phenomenon. There are also 20 percent fewer farms at European level than in 2003, and this cannot be taken lightly because we are really proud of our family farms and because we know that the family farms manage a large part of our cultural landscape and also the agricultural areas, so I think we are all required to work in this direction. [[Abg. Auer: Mrs. Colleague, do you know how much we demonstrate?]] For me, as has already been said today, this means that farmers acquire decent income, can generate from their labour force, that is, from their hands power. This is a very important point, and the second point is that the funding landscape is constantly being looked at. I am already of the opinion that the CAP reform has taken a small step in the right direction, even though I say that the SPÖ would have wanted other funding limits. This is what all Members of this House know who are working in the Committee on Agriculture. But we are on a good path, and I believe that we all want to see agriculture in Austria remain the same as it is, that is, small-scaled, and that large mass farms are not left at the end. In this direction, Mr Auer, we should work together, including in committee and politics.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e13115	Mrs Diesner-Wais is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e13136	Mr President. Dear Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Green Report is a comprehensive set of figures which will help us in policy to simply learn about the situation of agriculture. Farmers do great services for us, for all Austrians, because they maintain our landscape, they produce healthy food. Just think of the flowering poppy fields, of the beautiful yellow sunflower fields or rape fields, of our stripy landscape! Our intact environment is something that we Austrians are proud of. But they also make a big contribution to the rural region, to our villages. With the traditional awareness and with the healthy foods they produce, this is a contribution of high quality. They are very careful and sustainable in the production of food, and so we should deal with these noble products as well. The Green Report shows that agricultural income fell by 6 percent per farm in 2013. Rural development in particular is at the heart of the agricultural policy, which is the only way to further develop the whole rural region. [[President Bures takes over the presidency again.]] There will be less money for the area in the future, which is very difficult for many regions. But there is more money for investment. And this is an important point for our young farmers, because it allows those who look optimistically into the future with ideas to invest in their business again. And this, of course, revives the economy. Because our agriculture and forestry is a regional engine. This means 530 000 jobs in rural areas directly dependent on agriculture. I would also like to thank our Minister for being among the top 6 who have now approved the rural programme, which means that we have a safe framework for all the other farmers in Europe. As a farmer, I would of course also like to deal with the question of women in agriculture. We've already heard: 36 percent of those who run farms are women. And I'm very proud of that. For women are particularly active as farmers in those farms, which may not be as large as the size of the land and are located in mountain and disadvantaged areas. But it is they who, with much energy, a lot of competence, bring wealth of ideas and diversity, so great things into agriculture. As the only farmer here in the National Council, I would really like to thank the farmers for their work today. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] However, on behalf of all Austrians, I would particularly like to thank the farmers for covering our table daily with healthy food.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e13190	The next item is the speech by Mr Bacher. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e13212	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! I come from a region whose largest capital is nature. The people who live and live there depend on an intact environment. Every workplace depends directly or indirectly on nature. If the use of plant protection products eliminates this nature, which constitutes the added value of our region, then it does not only harm the animal and plant world. With us in the Pinzgau, Pongau and Lungau regions, the whole regions are thus attracted to regions that are expected to be ecologically sensitive mountain regions or which are located in the catchment area of the Hohe Tauern National Park. It is therefore important to me to act against plant protection products, including neo-notinoids. It is well known that these enormous damage to the environment and, in particular, to bees, can also damage butterflies and other useful insects. By damaging this natural food chain, birds, amphibians and small mammals are pitied. And this has far-reaching effects on our natural ecosystems. We politicians are required to make decisions for an intact environment, decisions that protect our nature. When I think of the Hohe Tauern National Park, I know how important it is to quickly find solutions that prevent the use of dangerous substances such as neonicotinoids in the long term. The same applies, of course, to the use of total herbicides such as glyphosate. There should be no room for this in the new agri-environmental programmes. And I am glad that we have taken a first step forward in this regard. In the first draft rural development programme, the environmental programme would have allowed the use of total herbicides. It seems that the use of these herbicides is now no longer permitted if one wants to take part in the environmental measures and seek support from them. This is a success of the SPÖ, which has repeatedly pointed out that the use of total herbicides in an environmental programme should not occur. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A quote from Albert Einstein says: “When the bee disappears from the earth, man has only four years to live.” In my region, that means: When the bees die, the natural base of an entire national park region eventually dies. That can't happen! That's what we've got to do. Mr. Federal Minister, you have our support.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e13263	I am now interrupting the negotiations on item 3 of the agenda so that the urgent question requested can be dealt with at 15.05 a.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[15:05:00]] Request for urgent procedure by Dr Kathrin Nachbaur, colleagues to the Federal Chancellor on "Federal Government in the Fact Check: 400,000 jobseekers instead of promised reforms!” (3068/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e13293	We now come to the urgent debate on the written question 3068/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e13612	I give Mrs. Club Chairman Dr. Nachbaur as the questioner for the reasons for the request, which according to § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Mrs. Club Chairman.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e13633	Madam President. Dear representatives of the Federal Government! Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear colleagues in the House! Guests at the gallery! Dear taxpayers! It is now about 400 days since the red-black government's new edition has resigned from office. 400 days – 400 000 unemployed. In the next few weeks and months, it will be much more likely. Unfortunately, it will not be a particularly beautiful Christmas for many Austrians. The government has clearly failed. The government is the management team of a country, which Frank Stronach has emphasized very often. And this team must create the conditions for the economy to flourish, create jobs and create more prosperity in the country. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] But the conditions for the economy in Austria, for the creation of prosperity in our country today are really anything but optimal. Instead of promoting and supporting entrepreneurship, businessmen are, on the contrary, subordinated from dishonesty and tax evasion. Those who want to create, build and accomplish something in Austria are the redistributors and wastefuls in the government, mercilessly handed over by the unclear tax laws. We can read the consequences daily in the newspaper. The big entrepreneurs go away or at least think aloud about it, the little ones hardly know how to get over the rounds. Many, thanks to missing politics, already stand the water to the neck, because of the unclear tax laws – and that actually weighs much more heavily – with a foot in the criminal, and you continue to do so. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] In order to finally drive people out of the idea of entrepreneurship and take entrepreneurship risks, 550 new taxpayers are now leaving the Black Ministry of Finance. Some things can also be thought of by the coalition partner in order to torment the entrepreneurs. For example, it is a register obligation for the smallest companies, for the host, for the operators of small boutiques that already fight anyway. They are subject to dishonesty and tax evasion from home. It's just so unfair. Entrepreneurs and self-employed are still under general suspicion, while the father, who has bred his little daughter to death, is still free to walk around. [[Calls.]] This is now a very far-off from the main issue, but the criminal legislation is in need of reform. Crimes against body and life are disproportionately mildly punished compared to property offences. Every normal person balls his hand in the pocket of his pants when he thinks of this story. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and the FPÖ representatives.]] My urgent appeal to the government: Please stop calling people who think they're business-oriented as potential gauners! They didn't deserve this. With their diligence and ideas, they ensure prosperity in this country – and not politics. Policy does not create jobs that bring lasting prosperity. The 550 new taxpayers, for example, who have been hired there to hunt for the entrepreneurs, do not count in my opinion, because they cost tax money. We need jobs that bring tax money! Tax evasion is not a cavalier offence. But with regard to the level of taxation, the arch has now been significantly overstretched in Austria. There are studies that show that, from a disproportionately high level of taxation, which we have achieved here, the tax resistance is increasing progressively. France serves as a truly dissuasive example here. It currently does not remain enough net after the taxes and charges at record level. The real tax burden on labour income – if you charge taxes, taxes and the so-called employers' contributions – is already over 60 percent of gross wages, and the fee orgy is also included. To take away so much, that is actually immoral. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The money collected by the state then disappears in the administration or otherwise sifters where. And the worst thing is: For the poorest of the poor, there is often not enough left. The climate in Austria has become anti-performance, and this is extremely frustrating for the hard-working people in this country. The fact that people are too few has even recognized the left-wing parties responsible for this, and once again calls out loud for social justice. In my opinion, this is a dangerous threat, because it has become an ideological concept of combat that can be used at any time and that simply stirs people up against each other. It is debatable that it was themselves that our country had to cut down so much that Austria had to become a top tax country so that the budget somehow went out. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Now you're calling: Hold the thief! But the thieves are certainly not the taxed citizens of this country and not the so-called besservers, but they sit elsewhere. We need less of your questionable justice concepts, because they don't work in accordance with experience, but more house sense in politics, more people who understand something about the economy and the economy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] The government should note that its policy of extreme taxation and refusal to reform is due to the ever-increasing unemployment and our growing debt mountains. Instead, the redistributors demand even more wealth taxes, wealth taxes. I refer in particular to this mantra of the left half of the empire: new debt, new taxes, more rules, of course everything for supposed justice reasons. Debt policy is really unfair. The German vice chancellor Sigmar Gabriel of the SPD admits this even now. He says literally: “Only large banks earn from high government debt. Public debt is non-social.” [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] This Urals concept of creating jobs on pump has failed. We have a huge debt mountain and as many unemployed as never before. The government is clear on the wood road here. We need less and no more taxes. We don't need new taxes. We need a very simple control system without loopholes, without privileges, a slim state with an efficient administration. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We know what distribution justice is about: Wealth is more uneven than income. Therefore, the Stronach team calls for: Workers must be involved in the success of the company! Employee participation in profit! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] It must simply be possible in this country to build up a small wealth through labor and hard work. Then there are also more people who have a small fortune, and that is not as unjustly distributed as you say. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] On the other hand, it is precisely you, especially the ladies and gentlemen from the trade union, who now give the tone in the SPÖ, who have their hands and feet. It's no wonder you're afraid of your right of existence. If the employees become co-operators and think entrepreneurship, what justification do you still have to come as a third party and stir up the workers against the management or the owners? [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] That would be a great loss of power for you, ladies and gentlemen from the union, and therefore you block that employees can earn. So, logically, you are less concerned with the working people than with your own preservation of power. Now I would like to add: If someone who earns quite well manages to put €800 on the side in the month, he saves almost €10,000 in the year. Since there are no interest rates – thanks to the missing interest rate policy of the ECB – it takes ten years to save € 100 000. That would be the deposit for a small house. After that, he will probably need another 25 years until he has decomposed the loan, and then you will come and want to tax his goods and property for reasons of social justice. Ask the housekeeper how fair it is! I don't think that's fair. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and representatives of the NEOS.]] The professional trade unionists may imagine the world in this way, but politics must finally stop serving its own preserve of power, and rather serve the people, in time. Team Stronach says: Two term of office are enough, then every politician must live back into the free economy and with the laws he has passed with which he has made. [[Intervocations at SPÖ and ÖVP]] Austria needs fewer redistributors, fewer ideologists with the same wrong recipes. We need fewer professional politicians than you, but we need more understanding in politics. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Further calls at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Frank Stronach has often spoken of citizens. It simply needs quite normal people with a sense of mind in politics, who agree with their conscience, who are not dependent on a party book and who do not need to be a party citizen, so that they can be captured somewhere in a state chair afterwards. The government should also ask itself whether the right incentive systems are there to ensure that people are intensively looking for work. At present, there is hardly any difference between work and non-work among the low-earners. Especially in the area of low skilled persons, the difference between basic and labour income is really too unmotivated. There are many people in Austria with basic security and pussing as well as with work. That's not right, but if the government does not offer incentives that work is worth working, then you don't have to wonder that people become inventive in their distress. It is important to prevent this from happening at all. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Our social state is completely overstretched and overburdened thanks to the principle of foundry and cannot support the really poor enough. It needs help for those who really need it. I was recently in a disabled home near Graz, where cases come to care for no one else who would not be able to survive at home, even with care. This organization receives money from the church and also from private people, but hardly any support from the state. I was really touched and shocked how to deal with the poorest in society who have no lobby. They can see where they stay. Because of the debt crisis, there is probably no money for the really poor in these institutions, and that is really anything but social. We have come to a two-class society in Austria: on the one hand, the political caste with all its political artists and on the other hand, the normal people who can look at how they can proceed with their small income – with their “cash money” – after deduction of record taxes, after deduction of all taxes, after payment of the fees. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Where do you belong now, Mrs Deputies?]] There are also fewer and fewer families who can afford to have several children. From three children you are usually already at risk of poverty in Austria. At the same time, however, we all live longer that God is grateful, and hopefully also healthy. But the question arises when you look at the demographic data: Who should take care of the many older people – since we all get older as well? So really: When you look at the data, you can see that Austria becomes a “senior home” one day. And then who should pay the pensions? This is all a vicious circle, because the more unemployed there are, the less contributors to our Marod pension system there are. It can't be calculated at all. It's five to twelve! But not only do I want to criticise here, but the Stronach team has started to propose constructive solutions. Now I like to put a few solution ideas on how to do it better. Entrepreneurs who invest in Austria, who create jobs here that are active here, are supposed to pay significantly less taxes, and even to give them to employees. We want employee participation in profit. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We say: Get down with the charges, get down with the charges! They are far too high, especially in the city of Vienna. The Court of Auditors has already made this clear. Very important: Get off the debt! Debts are unsocial, they serve only the big banks and not the people. Getting away with this inflated bureaucracy, we need fewer politicians, we need fewer laws, and then we need less administration. [[Call the SPÖ: Make the first step!]] There are too many people in the equipment, which is a great cost to the citizens. We need to see that we attract as many investors as possible who are building companies here in Austria that invest here instead of selling them through new tax ideas. The foreign exchange must be quite simple: Wealth, and not: Distribution of wealth and watering down. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. Lopatka: Poor applause!]] We need a simplification of the tax system, a significant reduction in wage, income and corporate taxes. They are the most powerful in terms of growth and prevent the creation of jobs that are urgently needed. We've had it calculated: Over five years, a gradual reduction in each progression stage could be made by 3 per cent per year, without the social system suffering. This would represent a total relief of €15 billion by 2019 – a real relief for working people, their families and entrepreneurs. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Stroll.]] It is very important to our concept that a large part of this tax reform would be financed by itself through the positive impulses in the economy and would relieve small and medium-sized incomes by percentage. We've had this calculated by the Eco Austria Economic Research Institute. Of course, the reforms that have been on the table for years – if not for decades – must also be implemented, which is absolutely necessary in this country. There can be very much saved, starting in the administration, through reductions in the funding system or, most importantly, by closing loopholes, reforms in the health sector or improvements in the pension system. It is also necessary to start with the trade regulations. They wanted to reform you for a long time, but nothing has happened except announcements. An example: The Industrial Regulation includes 82 regulated trade and 21 sub-sectors. This is a thickening of regulations and barriers, which in part leads to really absurd growth. A nail designer, for example, may paint fingernails, but not toenails, for which she would have to release a new commercial license – a part of the industry, which is really absurd. It is therefore urgent to unravel the rules of commerce and adapt them to the needs of a modern, liberal economy, and then to create easier jobs. Also what the shop opening times are: What we currently have here is not at all modern. The family companies themselves need to know how they want to design their shop opening times, but they can say independently when they lock up and when they lock up. [[Call the SPÖ:But now it's enough!]] Trust people! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. Lopatka: Now you have said it very often!]] Larger companies should be able to keep 60 percent of employees open on weekends or evenings. (Renewal call of the p. Lopatka. ) This unravels and revives the economy, not your tax and debt policy. With new taxes and other debts, one does not create jobs, nor detonates or revives the economy. [[Abg. Lopatka: What is your concern now?]] What we need is a slender state,less taxes, simple taxes that everyone understands, less debt, a liberal economic policy, less class struggle, fuelled by trade unions that care more about themselves than the workers. [[Abg. Lopatka: “Slender State! ”]] [[Abg. Lopatka: “Less taxes!”]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The trade unions have traditionally and historically very great merits, but it is simply not contemporary to be a trade union that stirs up instead of being a trade union that works to ensure that the employees are involved in the profit. [[Abg. Krainer: And who evaluates this?]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] But You don't want it, it's scratching on your power structure. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The summary is quite clear: The fat state needs to be put on a diet, but for this the money bags of the people are to become pretty thick again, but not by inflation, but by the fact that hard work is paying off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e13940	I welcome the Federal Chancellor and the other members of the Federal Government. Mr Faymann spoke in response to the question. Mr Bundeskanzler, your speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e13964	Madam President. Dear Members of the Government! Honourable Members! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Nachbaur, you said that the union has historical merits. To do this, you can say: That's more than the Stronach team has. [[Cheerfulness and applause with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Lopatka: One too zero!]] And in the present and in the future, I also rely on the union to remain strong as a representative of interest in times when so many precarious jobs arise where people who work hard often earn too little to be able to live on them. That is what I wish for both the present and the future. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I have read the question carefully, including the questions that have only been raised in part, but you certainly expect me to say something not only for your speech but also to answer your questions. That is why I will do this and I would also like to predict the general text you have started that I see it as the merit of the employers and workers of our country that we have come through the crisis much better than others, which the Commission and also economic researchers Austria attest, because we have employment, because we have social cohesion, because we have something to do with the competitiveness of the country. It is a merit of the social partners and the social partnership idea of politics which has gained enormous importance in our country, both in the Second Republic and in this period of the severe economic crisis. There are only a few countries – Germany and some Scandinavian countries – that can say of themselves that they have come through the crisis so well. And that wouldn't be successful if – I didn't quite understand you. [[Abg. Rebour: But we are the only country that has not solved the banking crisis to this day!]] [[Abg. Post-Bauer: We have not solved the banking crisis worldwide until today! Just pushed out!]] As Austria says today economically, despite low growth in the euro area in Europe, we also have a high GDP per capita that we have a record of over 3.5 million employees and, together with Germany in the ranking of the question of who has the lowest unemployment, Austria is characterised by this. And you can't ignore that either, Mrs Colleague. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] However, I would also like to stress that the measures have been effective during the crisis. I am therefore saying “ongoing the crisis” because I am convinced that we are not yet above the mountain. We still have far too little growth rates, we still have so little growth rates in Europe, in the euro area, that we cannot say that this crisis, which is particularly marked by high unemployment, is over. The crisis is not over as long as such high unemployment and youth unemployment exist in Europe. During the crisis, we set priorities, through short-term labour models, through economic impulses and through the 2009 tax reform, which according to WIFO had a GDP effect of 0.6 percent in purchasing power. I say this to underline the importance of a tax reduction not only for fairness and justice, but also for purchasing power. We have not only introduced the training guarantee during the crisis, but also expanded and maintained it. And with our budgets, when others were often unable to invest, because they had no resources at all, we set clear priorities for investment. I therefore come to answer your questions. Questions 1 to 4: The Federal Government is continuing the package of measures for crisis management and employment security in those areas that concern public investment, with an employment security effect of 200 000 jobs only in the coming year, through the expansion of childcare, the development of day-to-day school forms, the increased use of active labour market policies such as short-time work, programmes to strengthen youth employment, such as youth and apprenticeship coaching, and the training guarantee already mentioned. However, measures are also being taken to reduce long-term unemployment, such as programmes in different areas of integration. The promotion of reintegration into businesses and the opportunities for health-affected people in concrete employment projects are also being promoted and strengthened. Questions 5 to 8: The Austrian Federal Government has already expressed its support for a tax reform of at least €5 billion several weeks ago – also in the case of the government clause. The schedule was also fixed. The notions are still different, but the schedule and volume of at least €5 billion are set as far as possible. The schedule: An agreement will be reached in a political group by March next year. We have worked on a number of models in which the proposals made by the Courts of Auditors, the proposals made by you, the proposals made in the political debate, and their plausibility and the question of how much they actually mean in terms of savings or revenue. There will be a political weighting to achieve, on the one hand, a strong relief on the part of workers and to reduce the volume until no one notices anything about the reform – this volume is consciously chosen in such a way that the money market, i.e. net, should be more significant for individuals – and on the other hand to give a boost to economic policy at the same time. The fact that taxes are to be simple is, as you know, a high claim through exceptions and certain targeted measures to be put in place. But for me, it's not the problem. Rather, it is important that it is simply not unfair. That is why we also need wealth taxes to make it more justifiable. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You know that there are different points of view on the question of revenue, but there is no agreement on the issue of combating fraud. I do not want to represent it as if the matter had already been settled in a coalition at the beginning of political negotiations. It is not clear that there will be a hard, but fair debate to make a political proposal in the spring of the government and, of course, as a government here to the House – there will then be detailed debates in this House. The Austrian Trade Union Confederation and the Chamber of Workers have collected more than 880 000 signatures across all sides in order to repress this important political demand. I do not want to thank the trade union association, the workers' chamber and all those who have signed here. It is an hour's commandment to impose tax relief on people in this country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] On the question 9: The management of this issue is the Federal Minister for Finance. On the federal side, the transparency database is complete. Both the Federal Services and the Federal Government's concrete payouts are available in the database. By mid-2015, the Federal Ministry of Finance will negotiate an article 15a agreement with the federal states on the payment information. I see this database of transparency as an important part to have clarity. Like a good doctor who needs an X-ray image, the Federation must also know from the countries and communities – but also vice versa – where expenditure is made and how through better and closer cooperation or the elimination of multi-tracks efficiency improvements are possible. So it is not about simply reducing quality – that would be simple – but about achieving a certain quality that you want to have with better efficiency, and that requires such a database of transparency. Regarding the €15 billion you have raised as a means of reducing taxes and savings, I would like to say the following: Only if you take the health sector as one of the three sectors where there is a lot to save: Of course, efficiency improvement of hundreds of millions in the health sector is possible. But let us not call that a savings in the sense that we need €3 billion less for the health sector, because we know that through the progress in medicine, through the care services that are required, both in the stationary and mobile care, even the requirements rise, that efficiency improvement usually does not result in a need of 3 billion less, but that it actually reduces expenditure increases in this area. It's a sand-in-the-eye scatter when you tell people that if you improve efficiency in hospitals, you need €3 billion less for health. No, because these €3 billion will be used for further quality improvements in health care and care. Simply delete money and cut it down, so that the people who can rely on optimal health care in Austria today will be able to take the opportunity to get the best possible performance regardless of their wallet. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Question 10: The government programme also includes a number of measures to strengthen the economic location. I would particularly like to mention the advance of broadband development, which will also bring a significant employment effect by 2015 - estimated by economic researchers: more than 25,000 jobs. Debureaucratisation packages, which have been decided, have set a starting point at €28 million a year, where I can continue immediately, namely with question 12. Then I come to Question 11. I would like to answer this together with Question 12: A deregulation and task reform group has addressed some 200 proposals from the areas of red tape for citizens and job reform, and the first measures have already been implemented. But I also do not want to skip the question 11 and stress: On the basis of new directives, the AWS is even more focused on young, emerging companies. The focus is on startups and founders who are to be specifically supported in economically difficult times. That's where I see a similarity with your concern. On the question 13: The adaptation of the industrial system to changed social conditions is a leader in the Federal Ministry of Science, Research and Economics at work. In fact, there is an adjustment – again from the point of view of maintaining high quality – to which consumers need to rely. The directives which are intended to guarantee good training also require certain rules. You can't just throw overboard anything that doesn't fit, because then you'd also throw consumer protection and training overboard, which wouldn't make sense. Therefore, the adaptation will of course be discussed and carried out in a lead with the social partners. Questions 14 and 15: The Opening Act already provides for a special option for weekends and holidays by means of a regulation by the head of state after consulting the competent representatives of employers and employees for sales activities, provided that there is particular regional need. With the statement that you are going carelessly and pass over the interests of the employees, the people who work in this area, you will not reach us because we have something left for employees. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Aubauer.]] Questions 16 and 17: To this end, I would like to stress that the Austrian Federal Government has presented a six-point programme at its last government clause. The main focus is on a school entrance phase consisting of the last kindergarten year and the first two folk school levels. Furthermore, it is about expanding language promotion in kindergarten and school, the quality criteria for the afternoon in all day schools, the daily movement unit at all day schools and the opening of schools for sports clubs, the continuation of adult education initiatives and the expansion of school autonomy, which you also address to more opportunities to block hours and increase the opportunity for directors to participate in the selection of teachers as well as more opportunities to profile schools. On the question of 18, which concerns eco-social sustainable agriculture, it should be noted that the priority here is, of course, high-quality food supply. To this end, the coalition partner has agreed to further strengthen organic farming, to refrain from genetic engineering and to promote mining plants in category 3 and 4 as special support is needed in the interests of our country in this area. On question 19: A key and important step is transparency for consumers. In our view, there is currently no need for an initiative towards a new national system. Question 20: To the social partners you address: The dialogue between employees in Austria is something – I know there is a difference to your attitude – which I am very proud of, because I am convinced that demonstrations, demonstrations, strikes and lockouts, with radicalization, where one has learned to speak, cannot achieve good results. You can see this daily in many countries, including Europe. Where respect is lacking, which is necessary to discuss and express interests at a glance, where – and you will notice this very carefully in many countries – at this level of conversation, this dialogue, this respect, this involvement, this approach, the common one before the parting, one has the worst results in politics. Therefore, I am in favour of the employees... [[Abg. Rebaur: That's why we want the employees to be able to earn!]] There are participations, there are yes in the voest and other company models that you know well. [[Abg. Reborn: There you have to create incentives...!]] There are also proposals to strengthen this. But I must tell you that if we strengthen the employee models, this does not mean that we do not need social partnership, and then it does not mean that we do not need this mutual respect, which I would like to call for, because I see a certain difference here and democracy is there to discuss these differences as well. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP]] Therefore, I attach great importance to the fact that this partnership also marks the future of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e14169	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, with each club having a total speaking time of 25 minutes. Next speaker: Mrs Dietrich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e14198	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Federal Chancellor! You're perfectly right. We from the Stronach team do not have any historical merits, but we do well to be worthy of the future of Austria if we succeed in implementing our programme here and ending the standstill. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Oh, call at the SPÖ.]] We are facing an end to debt policy, to administrative and bureaucracy reduction and to a fair pension system. Mr Bundeskanzler, your comparison with Germany, I have to tell you, I have to be honest. You say we're on the same footing with Germany. But You have forgotten the following: Germany has the reunification behind it, and it has cost 2 trillion €. For us, this would be an extra charge of €200 billion. And this extra burden has caused your government, the red-black government. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you are also right if you think that the union has earned historic merit. - Sure, no one will doubt it. But I believe that in economically difficult times, in which many entrepreneurs no longer have a successor, the motto cannot be against each other, but only with one another. It is about finding a way together, so that the companies and the employees have a future. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] On your theme tax reform: I'm perfect with you: More net of gross – absolutely! People don't have money anymore, the purchasing power is lost. People can't afford anything anymore, and that's a really difficult situation. But assuming that the property tax is a solution is the wrong way, from our point of view, when it comes to dwellings, house builders or savings, but very probably the right way when it comes to your political officials who have privileges pensions: a workers' chamber president who has 15 000 € per month – with the compulsory contributions of his mandatory members! [[Call the SPÖ:Hello, hello!]] Ladies and gentlemen, this unfairness belongs abolished. There I am for wealth tax, more than ever – the more, the better. [[Abg. Wenninger: That was the old FPÖ...!]] In a few weeks we celebrate Christmas, and there really will be many families Don't be gifted this day because you can never see such fears of the future as we now have them in the past. Youth has fears of the future – legitimately. We have an enormously high youth unemployment across the EU: Greece 60 percent, the southern countries 20 to 40 percent. Many are already talking about the lost generation. Seniors have fears about the future because they get into poverty. Many, namely, those who do not have a job now, do not know whether they will find a job in the future, as it will look on the labour market. So you can't talk about it. Many people are afraid because they don't know how to proceed. And if you think that the cause is only global, that is, only the world economy is to blame, then that is half the truth. In Austria, economic policy has failed to implement timely measures to ensure that companies can exist that industries do not migrate. The government also has significant responsibility for high unemployment. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Mr. Federal Chancellor, I am only surprised that: When Professor Schuh of EcoAustria at the Institute on 3 October. January 2014 has said to him that what you are planning in the government programme are the measures, actions and approaches, pure alibi actions, because they are not sufficiently comprehensive and doped, I ask myself: Where's your responsibility? Why didn't you go after that? Why didn't you look at securing jobs for Austria? Why were you in your – apologies! – Self-gloriousness unable and inactive and have not tried to secure jobs for the population? [[Abg. Arbitrator: Why do you say it if you apologize anyway?]] That is why this unemployment is from my point of view, and the causer is a red-black government, a red-black government coalition that has extended the downtime of recent times. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: Only for the protocol: It will be less and less applause! Just that this is logged!]] Another point: If you mean Austria is a pattern student, I have to say: This comparison is also limping. In 2015, the EU will grow by 1.9 percent economically, Mr. Schieder, Austria, by 1.2 percent in the same period. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Arbitrary]] I don't know how the SPÖ calculates, but it's not clear to me who the model student is supposed to be. [[Abg. Kitzmüller: Not at all!]] I think it is high time that we in this country finally undertake reforms, that we create a simple tax system, that creates incentives for businesses to invest here in the country, that we secure jobs, and that we – today already like this term – bring about reindustrialisation and strengthen the industrial location. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] In this sense, I think we have a lot to do. Please unscrew They open their sleeves not only on the party day, but also after that to bring something forward for the people in this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e14343	The next item is Mr Klubobmann Mag. Arbitrator. I'll set you five minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e14365	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Karlsböck: (in the direction of Federal Minister Brandstetter) Mr. Minister!]] The issue is more serious than the urgent request has quality. That is why I would like to start by devoting myself to the issues of content. In 2009, with the outbreak of the financial and economic crisis, we had a negative 3.6% growth, i.e. almost 4 percent less economic performance, which of course also had a massive impact on the labour market. Even in this year, the economic researchers predicted a further 1.7 percent growth in March, and in September the growth situation fell to 0.8. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: That was a false report!]] This is an international, European situation. And the consequence of this is of course also a... [[Abg. Peter Worm: 1.7 percent assumed was already negligent in March!]] I didn't understand what you were... – Yes, but these were the economic researchers. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: It was already negligent in March to accept that! Everyone already knew that!]] I don't know what you're taking. Call the business researchers and tell them you failed. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I don't know if they'll believe it. I'm just quoting what the WIFO and the IHS have predicted, even if the FPÖ is not right for there to be economic researchers in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The result, of course, is also a strained labour market, although we still have increasing employment. This has to do with the fact that more young people, among the younger ones, are pushing women to a higher percentage on the labour market. Of course, we also have effects that we do not like at all. We have more precarious work relations, we have more part-time work relations that people don't want at all, but they would rather work more. And, of course, we also have increased unemployment. Nevertheless, we are among the countries with the lowest unemployment in the European Union and the countries with the highest gross domestic product. We have the second highest gross domestic product in the European Union. Nevertheless, and this is very important, it is important not to reject itself, but to continue with active labour market policy very consciously. 1.2 billion € will be made available to the AMS for its budget. We spend almost €5 billion in the budget for passive labour market policy and €700 million alone for apprenticeship or apprenticeship funding. You see, on your own, the importance of labour market policy for us. Without these measures, in Austria we would have a much worse situation on the labour market and also in economic terms. A focus is also on workers in the 50+ sector, for which many measures have also been adopted, and, of course, the whole question of economic activity. I mention only €830 million for the families, €400 million for the expansion of the school day care facilities, €350 million for childcare facilities, the care allowance and the 24 hour care, the housing offensive, the free gears, the expansion of flood protection facilities and the expansion of the infrastructure as a whole. These are essential measures which we have already decided here in the House. This includes, of course, the tax reform, the reduction of the entry tax rate to 25 percent, future investment, perhaps also a change in European rules, so that real future investments are no longer included in the Maastricht data world, and the investment package, which the Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker urgently needs to launch with €300 billion, as well as the discussion on broadband expansion in Austria already held here. Nevertheless, let me turn to what Mr Nachbaur mentioned here from the Stronach team, namely profit participation. I say to you that the best form of profit participation is higher pay statements, and that is what the trade unions in Austria are fighting for. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Honey.]] And there's also the good thing that you don't depend on the will of the uncle Frank. I know that in your party this is a feeling you like to have that you depend on Uncle Frank. We want workers in this country to be dependent, not on Frank and his will, but on their performance and on the arm of collective bargaining in the form of trade unions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Rebaur: Then you are completely independent of the economy?]] And if you say here at the speaker's desk, it needs promotions where people really need it.Have you called Uncle Frank and asked him what with the 185 million € he has spent on funding, even though he makes billions of profits, which he still charges less by the Fiscus beyond abroad? [[Abg. Reborn: Yes!]] [[Abg. Reborn: That wasn't him! He has given €150 million to social donations in this country, and that can never be the whole SPÖ together!]] This is not the form of promotion I imagine it to be. I'd expect the Uncle Frank to pay back his 200 million grants once. That would be the right thing, because then we could give the money to those who need it more urgently than Mr Stronach. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And we are also in favour of tax fraud, no matter if it is legal... – I am also in favour of combating tax fraud. [[Abg. Reproducer: It has created 15,000 jobs! Put that respect in place!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] Why, then, did Mr Stronach move his residence to Switzerland in 1994, 20 years ago? Then there is the problem with the Canadian and Austrian tax systems, which has led to the final adoption of Parliament, because it has not brought together the necessary presence in Austria. [[Abg. Rebaur: He pays more taxes in Austria than your whole group together!]] Such people and parties that are financed by such people do not need to talk here about tax justice and tax law. [[Complaints and bravors at SPÖ.]] Then write in your request also that it needs improvements in the field of reading, writing and computing. [[Abg. Reborn: Yes!]] I've read this very carefully. They also write: Where Austria insists, Austria must also be inside. Considering that Stronach is a little more Canada in it than Austria, I wonder if that's the right thing to put it that way. Apart from the many spelling errors that are found in this question – and I could now take some of them out – I would like to draw attention to one particular point, namely what you are calling for as fiscal measures. “In concrete terms, for the next 5 years, we are striving to reduce each tax progression by 3 per cent each year (...).” The reduction in the level of tax progression means that the income limit, from the point of time when you have to pay tax, is lower. That means that this is a tax increase. If you really want that, then it is good that it has now been discovered, if not, then there is the calculation weakness found by Pisa in you. And then I'd ask you to take a course in your club first before you bother us here.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e14610	The next item is the speech by Mr Haubner. I'll set you five minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e14631	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Thank you, Mrs Rebaur! I can get some of the points you have raised, because I think you have written off the topics of taxation and reform from the Federal Economic Programme. So I'm sure I'll agree with you from this point of view. [[Abg. Rebaur: Maybe you've written this off!]] [[Interlocutory calls from representatives of the SPÖ.]] However, I would like to say that I am right in calculating my colleagues. If you have 20 percent of the compulsory school leavers “every fourth student”, then I would say that in Austria this is every fifth student. But that's just on this issue. [[It was in favour of the ÖVP as well as of representatives of SPÖ and FPÖ.]] That was just a very brief comment on my part. What I would like to say: I think this moustache from the millionaire's tax, which is always spiriting around, is moving on pretty thin ice. The millionaires go or fly, as we know, and the middle class who has to pay these new taxes remains. That's why I'm saying: No new taxes! – We certainly agree, because new taxes are poison for the site, for jobs and for entrepreneurs, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and Team Stronach.]] One thing I say quite clearly: Tax relief, yes, but not tax redistribution, namely from one way and the other should pay it. It won't work. A second point, which certainly also concerns us, is the subject of tax fraud – because you have done so. If a person really commits tax fraud, he should also be held responsible for it. But we also strongly oppose the criminalisation of entrepreneurs. I always say that 99 percent of entrepreneurs in Austria do decent work, employ people and deliver their taxes. These are the taxes from which we live in the final effect and which will enable us to secure our prosperity. – So much in general at the beginning. Ladies and gentlemen! But one thing we also have to say: We cannot decouple ourselves from international development, that is quite clear. Throughout Europe we do not necessarily have a simple situation, there are many crises, many crisis spots. We must not forget that 50 000 entrepreneurs in Austria live from export. And if it is crisisd abroad, then of course we also have the crisis with us. I'm sure that's one of the main problems. That is why we must be careful not to say here in Austria that we are on an island of the Blessed, we are not concerned about what is happening abroad. The fact is, in the EU it is the same thing: Growth forecasts are going down, unemployment is going up. That is why we need to do the following: The key to combating unemployment can only be to strengthen businesses, because businesses create jobs and not policy. In order to create jobs, we need incentives here and, above all, no new taxes. [[Congratulations with representatives of the ÖVP and the Stronach team.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Austria's entrepreneurs create more than 2.7 million jobs, and in total 3.5 million people are in employment. On the one hand, we have too many unemployed people, not a question, but we have never had as many employees as we do. That's a record, too. Unemployment concerns us all, but it has already been mentioned today: We in Austria have had the lowest unemployment in Europe over the last 14, 15 years. I believe that this is already a common merit – on the one hand, the employer, on the other, through the measures we have put together in difficult times, as in the 2009 crisis, with economic and labour market programmes and packages. So together we can make it. We are all: These are the employers, these are the employees. In this respect, we must continue to implement these measures successfully. Ladies and gentlemen, the following is also very important: In Austria, about 30 000 young people start businesses. We support this with the AWS, which we support with many measures. Again, it's important: After a year these companies have about two employees. If you count on the thumbs now, then you can say that these are 50,000 to 60 000 new jobs. And precisely these young entrepreneurs, we also need to support them; and we do – I have already said – this: Start-up support by the AWS, new start-ups are forced. So in this respect, these are the right measures that we have put in place here. With regard to red tape, we have done a lot of things right now. Of course, I say so too, you can certainly do more. But we have fewer officers, we have reliefs in working time records, we have reliefs in the law of measurement and verification. We have just finished the points here after a list. We have extended the threshold regulation to two years. It is especially important for the regions that they set impulses, impulses for the federal government, countries and municipalities, and an important impetus for the regional economy. With regard to shop opening times, Mrs Nachbaur, we have a good solution in Austria. This works well in the tourist zones. If we need it, we'll lock up if we don't need it, then there's nothing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Reciprocating.]] This is a good solution for both employers and employees. This has been in mutual agreement for many years. In Vienna – and we understand this from the economy under direct democracy – the Vienna Chamber of Commerce asks Mr. President Ruck now questions the entrepreneurs in the tourist zones, as it looks like with the opening times. We'll see what the result is. Not forced happiness, but integration – I think that is the right way. The entrepreneurial middle class – you have already said this today – is important. The middle class, employers and employees are engaged in the right measures. That's the right way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e14704	Mr Podgorschek. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e14725	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! I think we all agree on one thing here in the House: that the tax burden on the population is far too high, namely the tax burden on all parts of the population, for the workers, for the tradesmen and also for the farmers – as we have heard in the discussion today. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ as well as with representatives of SPÖ, ÖVP, Team Stronach and NEOS]] The Federal Chancellor has now also recognized it. That is why there is also this discussion about the tax relief of citizens. We will soon, I hope, get a reform concept on the table. One thing has to be clear to us: The entry rate must be reduced from 36,5 percent to 25 percent. The progression levels are now just too low. This is also because income from taxes is already much higher than wage increases. I think that even social democracy gives me the right that this is a wrong picture. But in one I give Federal Minister Schelling right: We do not have a revenue problem, but a very serious expenditure problem. [[Congratulations with FPÖ, representatives of ÖVP and Team Stronach as well as Abg. Scherak.]] Because of these facts I can only say that we have now arrived in European reality, we are no longer living on the island of the Blessed. On the one hand, unemployment is increasing rapidly, on the other hand, economic data are anything but rosy. If I follow the forecasts, we will face even worse times than better times. There is no good coloring, nor does it use anything if you look at everything only through the pink glasses. I am now the fifth year here in this House. I have been installed immediately as a financial speaker of my parliamentary club and for five years I have been pointing out this lack of reform. [[Abg. Arbitrators: ‘Fabulous reform stand’?- Oh, my God!]] – Lack of reforms. Thank you, Professor Schieder. At least you've been watching. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: Why “at least ”?- Oh, my God!]] For five years now, we have been talking about the measures that the Court of Auditors is calling for; 599 have been the original ones. We pointed out that there was an Austrian Convention. This Austrian Convention has proposed a comprehensive state reform, which has already been decided unanimously, but unfortunately never implemented. I have referred to the example of Sweden. Sweden has been led socially democratically, and yet, at the end of the 1990s, Sweden began to reorganise its state in a sustainable way. Sweden has reduced its debt level and reduced its tax performance. Above all, Sweden now stands much better and has fewer tax and tax benefits than Austria. That must be an alarm sign for us! Similar to Denmark: Denmark has also rehabilitated the state. But we could reverse the example of Switzerland: There, too, in Switzerland, there is quite a different debt and quite different tax and tax rates. But the main problem – and this is never addressed here or very rarely – that we have is simply this division of competence between the federal government and countries. As long as we do not deal with this and always push the problem out to the so-called financial compensatory negotiations, nothing will change. What are these problems between the federal government and countries? – First of all, these are double, sometimes even triple, promotions. Yeah, I hear about the transparency database. I remember that we discussed the transparency database in the Financial Committee in 2010, and it was then decided. Now four years have passed, she's still not standing. I'm asking: Why doesn't that work? – This is the essential instrument so that you can finally get away from these double promotions. We have problems in the field of education. In the field of education, there are overlaps between the federal government and countries which are no longer sustainable. In the field of health, President Leitel has already recognized the potential for saving through the merger of health insurance funds. Unfortunately, it will only remain with empty words. I assume that no changes will be made in the coming years. [[Abg. Riemer: 20 years had time!]] I was at an industrial union event last week. This was very interesting in that the economic operators and the industrialists presented their concerns and fears to the Council of Economic Affairs from Upper Austria. And the Council of Economic Affairs has actually confirmed all that has been said and whatever we preach again and again: Yes, we have a reform store, it's done something. He has even confirmed that an excellent result has been achieved at the Austrian Convention. But what? – He spoke out on the covenant. In the long term, the ÖVP will no longer be possible for the countries to decouple from the federal government and then move more or less to the federal government to the Black Peter. It's just a fact. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, a reform, as it has now been announced, which at the end of the day will not ensure that those with low and medium incomes will no longer be in the bag, will not be reform. A pure redeployment – and otherwise it will probably not go without reforms – is only a glare of the population, and I believe that the voters and voters will soon recognize it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The objective must therefore continue to be: Get down with the tax and tax rate, but also down with social expenditure, as Professor Aeginger has already mentioned, because social expenditure even affects lower incomes! There are these examples of President Leitel, according to which there could be savings. The aim must be to reduce the social benefits without reducing the social benefits – not that the social democrats start to excite again – that we have a slimmer state in the future, so that people stay in the pocket more.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e14814	Now comes Mrs Mag. Honey to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e14836	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Unlike Mr Haubner, I cannot discover many similarities in what you propose to combat the labour market and economic crisis. [[Abg. Wöginger: That would have surprised us too!]] But what I agree with is that I am absolutely not satisfied with how this federal government is dealing with the economic and labour market crisis. I think it just happens too little. I had put great hopes in changing the ÖVP tip – with Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner something like a short-term air came, and one hoped: Okay, now might finally come a little more! – But this initial energy seems totally stuffed to me again. I miss a specific labour market package, I miss a concrete investment package. We need both absolutely urgently. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] All I hear is a washer. Now, once again, something came from the Federal Chancellor, who has already left the fourth speaker when it comes to the labour market crisis. I find the presence of the SPÖ and even the government parties on such an important issue rather embarrassing. [[Demonstrative applause with the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. Franz: That's right!]] [[State Secretary Steßl: This is incredible!]] – That’s not incredible! This is a urgent question to the Federal Chancellor and after the fourth speaker he goes. [[State Secretary Steßl: Have you already counted with you, Mrs Colleague?Unknown term type: "%s".?]] – There are more greens here in proportion. As I said, a housing initiative has been announced, we do not know something specific. Mr Mitterkanzler Mitterlehner also disappeared immediately after Mr Bundeskanzler made this proposal. Nor is there anything fixed in the tax reform, we only know that it is coming in step. How small the steps are and when they really come, we don't know anything about that. It's a shame because we're losing time. For years, we have been losing what we could have been able to do in order to adapt to the changed situation, both in the economy and in the labour market. We could have used time for a long time, we lost it. We are now 400,000 unemployed. 400,000 unemployed – with the families affected – mean over one million unemployed people in our country. This is not a small matter, and I would like to try – unlike my previous speakers – to turn your attention to these one million people, because they need an emergency help package – and that is very urgent. First, we need a higher unemployment benefit. 55 percent of the last income is too low. The unemployment benefit is an average of €860, for women it is €780. This is too little, and we are falling into a disastrous economic situation. In a very short time, the affected families are building up debts they never get away from. That is where we need the emergency aid package for the unemployed, and it is urgent. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Unfortunately, the sounds in the government go in a completely different direction. Mr Vice-Kanzler Mitterlehner calls for greater transparency. Instead of fighting unemployment, he is now fighting against the unemployed. – It can't be! I say it quite clearly: We Greens don't go with that! I also have clear words from the SPÖ and above all from the Federal Chancellor – who is now here again, wonderful! - Missing. Maybe you can get that back. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl.]] The AMS data show that currently 12 jobseekers come to a free job. This will not help us to achieve stricter rules on the availability of jobs, so jobs will no longer be. Ladies and gentlemen! The unemployed need our support through more money, but also through better care, more service at the AMS and more resources for good training. Of course, that means we have to take money into our hands. It'll cost. It is heard by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany and also by the Vice-President of the Federal Republic of Germany: We're doing more, we're doing more, we're doing more! – The fact is, however, that we no longer have a euro available for active labour market policies, although the unemployment rate is going up dramatically. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] This means, quite specifically, that the individual unemployed are consistently less and less at their disposal. It can't be! We now have to invest in labour market policy in the crisis, otherwise this will come to our attention. Even if this costs now, this investment will be profitable in the medium term. Ladies and gentlemen! We need emergency help for unemployed people. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Of course, there is also a need for investment packages, and there was extensive time at the current hour of the Greens to discuss proposals – proposals that go towards investments in the energy transition for climate change protection. Instead of consistently sending €13 billion abroad to buy dirty fossil energies, we have to get into the energy transition. This is a sensible, sustainable investment, which is also good for our labour market! We need the energy transition, we need climate change in the sense of an employment and labour market package. Finally, I would like to address a third point very briefly, which – in the sense of the Stronach team – costs relatively little money and over which no one still trusts. It is a question of disseminating the existing paid unemployment differently. In Austria we make an enormous mountain of overtime – 270 million overtime hours a year, which is about 150,000 full-time jobs. I already know that overtime can't be 1 : 1 on jobs, but still, there could be thousands of jobs if we came down with the overtime. People in our country want that. Look at the studies, look at the surveys! People want less work. You would be with the people if you were finally to deal with the reduction of working time – starting with the overtime. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Doppler.]] And the second point is: The overtime, with all the supplements, actually comes a decent businessman more expensive than regular working time. That means: Many hours of overtime are much more expensive than when you employ more people. Third point: Shorter working hours promote positive social development. If people need less time for their work, they have more time for the family, for the care, also for sports, health, finally also for politics, for their democratic participation. Ladies and gentlemen! There's really a lot to do. You, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, will not be able to cope easily with the crisis. The problems do not solve themselves, you have to get in the way, you have to do something, and we Greens are always ready to support you with proposals. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e14979	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Strolz is next spoken. - I'll give it to you and set you up for 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e15001	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank and here in plenary! Dear citizens, citizens on the gallery and on the screens! Today we look at Austria's economic location and at what it takes to go to the future in order to be successful. We are, of course, embedded in a European dynamic, which unfortunately is not very dynamic. I believe that we all have the same findings that Europe is giving a very damp image in the international concert. However, if one then zooms down the focus and tightens it on Austria, then the bitter thing is that Austria is once again dissociating itself from this difficult European environment, and I think that should give us some thought. We are dissociating negatively from the European growth movement, which is very weak anyway. Austria is the first quarter without economic growth, and I think we will also see a second quarter without economic growth. That means we're actually on our way to recession. We will, of course, pay for this recession with many thousands of unemployed people, which we will still “put ” on the already existing record unemployment, the highest in post-war times. We will pay them with further debts that we must make in order to provide the social budgets accordingly in order to 'finance' this unemployment. Then, of course, the question arises: How could that be? How can it be that Austria is decoupling from the European trend? – I believe that the answers are largely consistent and uniform among experts. Austria suffers mainly from three phenomena, namely first of all from party political filtration. For example, this is what the “New Zurich newspaper” writes, which I did not invent, but I do, of course, also experience: party political filtration with a booster of bureaucracy, with a continuation of the protective and inhibiting chamber structures, with Europe-wide unique compulsions that are lifted in the chambers, with uniquely high amounts of party funding across Europe. [[Abg. Shopf: That's not true! Wrong!]] These are, of course, fat devices that we put in place here to ensure, above all, the interests of small circles, of clientele circles. First Austrian disease: party political filtration. Second disease: We are suffering from standstill and blockade in very important policy areas, in the field of education at the front; the industrial union has described this quite ex-plicitly yesterday. For small reforms, we lack the time when a fifth of young people aged 15 and over cannot read if there is just one fifth of a risk student in mathematics. The talents are our raw material, and we need to refine it, and we are not doing this to a sufficient extent. However, the ceasefire and blockade policy continues, of course, on issues of administrative reform, on questions of federalism reform. I do not have the impression that the Minister of Finance, who otherwise makes quite courageous statements, has recognised the opportunity and the unique opportunity of financial compensation. It is to be feared that the negotiations on this next year will be held in such a minor way and that we will cement the status quo for another five, six, seven years, because this will probably also be extended again. The ceasefire and blockade policy continues in the health field, where we now have a target control, which is a progress, but not a major throw, and will not, of course, raise those efficiency potentials that will enable us to halt the development towards two-class medicine. And Austria still has a third disease, which is called courage. This can be seen, for example, from the lack of determination to reform pensions. There is no other area in Austria where expenditure increases as rapidly as in pensions. And you know that, your coalition partner knows, Mr. Federal Chancellor, and here you also make proposals that we also share, but there is no courage to go into full swing here and really to negotiate this in the direction of implementation. What we need is a shift to the budget in investment areas, in education, research and infrastructure. And, of course, we have to cut back past and client-related expenditure with determination and courage. This is not happening, and I do not see that this will happen with the tax reform and the budgets of the next few years. Open the rooms instead You have a debate by saying that perhaps we need to finance the tax reform over new debts, together with the question of whether this would be useful. – And I think it's enormous to have learned nothing from the past 52 years. 52 years built on debt that Keynes never understood, always held him high, but never understood, always half practiced, namely spending, spending, spending, but in good times not putting a cent on the side! And you're obviously going to continue that way, I'm afraid. But the day will come, the interest will rise, it will come, and then it will be very bitter for Austria, then it will be very bitter. There are federal states where we now skip the cloles between schools, because a purchase from the current budget is no longer possible. At the same time, incompetence with the hypo leads to a loss of €19 billion! So the relationships just don't vote anywhere, and if you don't really work on these diseases, blockade, filtration and heartlessness, then that can't be anything anymore. We'll see, the paint must test is the tax reform. I see this as the Lord Mitterlehner: If you don't make it through the ramp by the end of March, then this government no longer has a right to exist. [[Abg. Rädler: We'll get it over the ramp!]] It's going to bother people that they're going to set the way for new elections again, but I think that's the only thing that's right.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e15078	The next speech is by Mr Ertlschweiger. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e15099	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen here in plenary and dear spectators at home in front of the TV devices! We have heard it today: public debt ratio: 86.5 percent. We have real falling salaries and consumption expenditure. We have a shortage of skilled workers and a dwindling middle class, and we have the highest unemployment rate in the second Republic. That is, in fact, 400 000 people do not have a job this Christmas. The roast will not taste so much to them, because they will not know how it continues in 2015. That is a fact, that is reality, and there we have to counter it. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Unemployment is the cancer damage of this Republic, and we know how it is with cancer: The sooner he is treated, the better and the more successful the chances of a cure. And unemployment is the same thing as it is: The sooner we put in place measures to reduce cancer unemployment, the better we can do that. I mean, in concrete terms, that we are finally leaving behind our antique education policy and, in a national etiquette, putting on a modern education system that meets the requirements of time, on a system that does not leave any talent behind. Here's my look at the Social Democrats: That's not just what I'm saying, that's what the SPÖ Grandsignor says, Dr. Androsch. We've heard it many times today: Every fourth student in this country cannot read meaningfully. Mr Ehmann of the SPÖ would say: Incredible! – And it’s incredible! What do you think the chances of these students to get a job once?- Oh, my God! Do you believe that he can feed himself, let alone feed a family?- Oh, my God! That's the big problem! Today's young people with this low level of education are the unemployed of tomorrow. And that's an insanity! We need to train workers, including colleagues in your direction, who are also in demand on the labour market. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Our central problem is that fewer and fewer people are interested in technical and natural sciences, the so-called MINT professions: Mathematics, computer science, natural sciences, technology. The creativity and creativity of skilled professionals are the key to innovation. That's where we have to sit! In kindergarten, girls and boys can be sensitized for the technical-natural professions. Their interest must be aroused. We need to show you with practical examples what you can do with these knowledge, whatever job opportunities there are. Our children and young people are not only struggling with the purple tree, many cannot even hit a nail accidentally again. This is exactly what the colleague Schellhorn of the NEOS said in the morning: Why do many companies no longer find apprentices? – Because there are many apprentice candidates who no longer meet the requirements of our time. Because they either don't want or can't because they don't have any craftsmanship at all. This is our big problem, and we have to do it! In my opinion, we must start with vocational orientation much, much earlier, not only after the children have completed compulsory school or one, two Schools before, but in all young years, the children already belong to sensitized. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the labour market has changed. It is no longer enough for you to stand on a machine as a compulsory school graduate in a factory and do simple activities. Think of the tag “Industrie 4.0”! It is crucial today that workers think networked. Only in this way will we remain competitive in Europe and in Austria in the longer term. Innovative products and services are the heartbeat of every economy. High-quality jobs are the heart of every economy. If this cardiac blood is defeated, there will be a collary damage, a circulatory collapse with all negative consequences: from poverty to social destabilization. This is where we have to fight. We need not only to rethink education policy, but also to boost the economy. We must finally create appropriate framework conditions for the economy, businesses, small and medium-sized enterprises and start-ups that encourage them to invest in Austria again. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We are always talking about it, ladies and gentlemen, we must also do it once! This is the big problem in this House: We always put ourselves here and say we have to, we have to. – We have to do it too! Increasing innovation in the real economy is a top priority. Top priority! What we need, ladies and gentlemen, are jobs for people in our country and finally a noticeable tax relief and reduction in fees to strengthen people's purchasing power. Everything else is irrelevant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e15215	Mr Wimmer, you are the next to speak. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e15236	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! My very valued Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Rebaur, you've already fucking gotten into the treasure with your statements. [[Abg. Rebaur: Thank you!]] Now, of course, we know that such a discussion is often very emotional. But I don't think you believe everything you said here, as I know you. [[Abg. Rebauer: You're fooling yourself!]] You must be honest, too. You have to say whether you stand for trade unions, whether you stand for the interests of colleagues in the trade unions in the enterprises, or whether you reject them. Her boss and party leader, Mr. Stronach, who is currently in public jurisdiction, has a very clear opinion. [[Abg. Reborn: As a witness, please! Please say that!]] [[Abg. Reborn: That's a deep comment, that's quite deep!]] He doesn't need trade unions, he said quite clearly. How did he say it? Whoever has the gold makes the rules. [[Abg. Rebaur: You didn't understand him!]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is not our understanding as a union, nor as a social democracy, if workers' interests are to be represented. [[Abg. Rebour: You want to cash contributions! And we want the workers involved!]] That is why we clearly reject a partnership such as Stronach lives in the farms. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mrs Nachbaur, you said Frank Stronach said two legislative periods in Parliament are enough. I don't think you need a second period at all. If you believe the opinion polls, you're one percent. You'll be done after a period of time. But that is not the main point of my concern today. [[Abg. You have not understood the content, because you are probably one of these professional politicians!]] My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, this urgent request does not at all correspond to reality, and you know it very well. You've made it all over here! You've been sick of the economic location, you've been in bad spirits. That's not right, that's not okay. [[Abg. Postage: The unemployment rate is among the highest in the EU! The business location is sick! Ask the unemployed! Austria is totally sick!]] There are also the following facts: Austria is and remains a potential industrial location! You can't discuss that away. Austria has excellent export figures. In terms of unit labour costs, we are top, better than Germany. [[Abg. Reciprocating:! Please find out!]] So when you talk about competitiveness, we know that competitiveness is given. And above all, Mrs. Nachbaur, we have excellent employees, highly qualified workers, who work day and night, who give their best day and night, and they are the ones who ensure this excellent economic location, with their performance, with their work, and for that we must thank these people once. [[Abg. Reborn: But despite your policy, not because of your policy!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Rebour: They do all of this despite your policy!]] Of course, there are discussions about various things: Shortening of working time, for example, flexibilization – a major topic. But we say quite clearly: To flexibility only at the expense of the people who implement this flexibilization, namely, working day and night without overtime supplements, we must say no. There won't be any. There are conversations, we are not yet further, but there will be no flexibilization at zero rate. That is what we are saying quite clearly, and that will remain the case. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You've been calling the shop opening times. There are already areas that have been opened until 9 p.m. I am thinking here of the railway stations, the Interspar at the Wiener Hauptbahnhof, for example, has opened until 9 p.m. We also see the problems with the employees there: not enough childcare facilities that suffers from the social environment. [[Abg. Rebaur: Yes, why don't you take care of it? That's what you're elected for, isn't it?]] Do you really want people to work around the clock in the shops day and night? Is that really your goal? I can tell you that this is not going to happen because people don't want it and can't do it at all! [[Abg. Rebaur: That's exactly the problem, there are no childcare facilities because you didn't care for them!]] You asked a question that I found very amusing. They asked the Federal Chancellor: “What initiatives will you take to convince the trade unions to act as partners of employees and employers in the future?” – But have you already heard that there is a social partnership in Austria?- Oh, my God! Or was that strange for you? It is impossible to acquire social partnership or love or successful association with one another. You've probably already noticed that. I can't say, You love these people now! - No, it has to be lived, and we do it. This is also the recipe for success that envys us in Europe. Imagine: Employers talk to employees. That's great, isn't it? Finally, this is also the reason for Austria's economic location being excellent and also being managed and managed by the crisis. [[Abg. Post-Bauer: The economic location suffers, we drop in every ranking! You dream, excuse me! What are you talking about?]] The Federal Chancellor said: No other European country has been able to rise as much in the crisis as Austria. Of course, measures have been taken for this purpose. Short work was an essential instrument. Thank you for allowing us to do this, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government. That had a significant part of our standing there today. I think people just need to know what you're for. I have made a few points, because at the end of the day we have to say what this party stands for and what the others stand for. You have now had the opportunity to present yourself in Parliament for a year. They stand for a reckless increase in the retirement age. I liked it today, too. [[Abg. Rebaur: No, you have read it wrong! You can't read! You are one of the many children who cannot read!]] You don't mean that seriously, I suppose. They are for the privatisation of social security and health care. Mrs. Nachbaur, the Stronach will be able to build a hospital because he has so much money when he has a flu. The workers can't do that. Do you understand? That is why we need the social system that we now have for our fellow Members. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you prepare tax gifts for entrepreneurs at the expense of the workers, we say a clear no to that. [[Abg. Reborn: You have a imagination that transcends the imagination of a folk school kid!]] [[Abg. Wittmann: The urgent is simply weak!]] You'll be there alone. And if you demand tax freedom for the super-rich, you owe yourself! You don't seriously believe that your proposal can go through in any way?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Reborn: You have a keen imagination! That's not a sentence in any program!]] [[Abg. New builder: The union is not in Parliament!]] In contrast to the Stronach team, people know what some parties stand for. [[Abg. Reborn: This is a very weak fantasy speech!]] There we are social democrats and trade unionists who say we stand for fairness, we stand for the workers of this country. [[Abg. New builder: The union is not in Parliament!]] People know – as I said – what Team Stronach stands for. You've been very massively exposed today. [[New call of the abg. Reciprocating.]] But there is an opportunity tomorrow to improve things and take measures to combat and prevent unemployment. A package of measures against wage and social dumping will be on the agenda tomorrow – and €30 million for short work. Become a plenary tomorrow You can prove whether you are working for Austria or just having some flakes in stock. [[Abg. Rebaur: We work for Austria! You're working for the union!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e15597	The next item is the speech by Mr Wöginger. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e15620	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, it is true that the current labour market situation is a challenge for our country and, of course, for politics. But we have a strange situation on the labour market: On the one hand, with about 3.5 million unemployed, we have a maximum number of employees and, on the other hand, an increasing unemployment rate. What is the basis of this principle? We have more people, more women, and more women who make themselves available to the labour market. In comparison to the previous year, there are about 44 000 people who are more available to the labour market per month, i.e. more labour potential, and we are also spending about 20 000 of these people on the labour market; not we, but the entrepreneurs. I would like to mention this right from the beginning. With 5.1 percent, we have the second lowest unemployment rate and the second lowest youth unemployment rate within the EU-28. So it would be missing here in the discussion to pour out the child with the bath, but there is a need for action in this area. This is not a question, and I would like to stress that. Why is that so?! – Ladies and gentlemen, of course economic growth is an essential factor. All that is below 2% growth means that we cannot accommodate the labour market potential. Of course, 0.7 percent are not enough in Weitem. But this is a problem that we have in almost all of Europe and also in our neighbouring countries. Mr Strolz, as you have said, Austria is following here: In Germany, the situation is quite different. You need to know, you know the expert opinion about this. Demographic development is more advanced in Germany than in Austria. That is to say, the population of Germany is on average older than Austria and there are more people in pension there. That is to say, the person represented in the belly of the population pyramid is largely already in retirement in Germany. That is the answer that we have a situation different from that of the Federal Republic at that time. [[Abg. Stroll: You are on your way to balanced budget and have had better growth forecasts!]] Well, what does better starting position mean in the budget?- Oh, my God! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Stroll.]] The government debt in Germany is higher than in our case. One should already compare the facts and facts and leave them as they are. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stroll.]] Not just pick out the raisins, Mr. Strolz! Education and training are also a key factor in unemployment. 47 percent – almost half of all unemployed people – have a maximum compulsory schooling. I think that's where it's going. For the long-term unemployed: Yes, we have 390 000 people who are currently looking for work, but we have 15,000 people who are long-term unemployed. That is, those who are unemployed for more than a year. We have a massive increase over the previous year. [[Abg. Honey: That was no more, it was a redeployment!]] Why do we have these?! – Because, on behalf of the Ministry of Social Affairs, the AMS is now doing more targeted work and, of course, is raising those groups in which mediation becomes more realistic or a job acceptance. The average stay is 107 days, i.e. about 3.5 months. People do not remain in unemployment forever. And 900 000 per sons wander through the AMS, so to speak, per year. So it is on the agenda today that jobs and jobs are changed. What has been and will be done against rising unemployment? – And that is important to me to mention because that has so far been too little expressed in this debate. It is criticized that it is too little. I'd like to say what's been done. In spring of this year, we invested €350 million in a labour market package, especially for older workers. [[Abg. Honey: That's not true at all! That's not anymore!]] We have reduced the additional wage costs by €200 million. We have the wage and social dumping law on the agenda tomorrow. This is particularly important for the construction sector. Last week, Mrs Dietrich was also very much present, we had the “Faire Grants for Secure Jobs” event. We want to set up the best instead of the cheapest bidder principle together. We have € 30 million more – tomorrow on the agenda – for short work. The debureaucratisation and simplification will also be part of this bill tomorrow. It is about working time records and that we reduce the number of agents or put them together in the establishments without infringing the worker protection regulations. Further applications for deregulation are already in Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, we need framework conditions for businesses and businesses so that we can create additional jobs. The dual training and the attraction of the teaching must be forced. We need to give more appreciation and recognition to the teaching and teaching professions. This is a task that should be aware of to all of us, even here in the House. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and SPÖ as well as the Abg. Doppler.]] The roadmap for tax reform is – it has been pointed out – planned, of course, in the area of wages and income tax. We want to take particular account of families with children in this area. And the location and thus jobs need to be secured. All of this also serves to strengthen the purchasing power in this country. It's a power act, but we'll do that next spring, ladies and gentlemen. A word about employee participation. – Yes, we stand by the ÖVP. The Black Social Social Partnership has drawn up a good proposal between ÖAAB and Wirtschaftsbund. Voluntary participation in companies should be possible. For example, if an entrepreneur says that he spends €1,000, then the employees will be left with €750 and not the total will be returned to the Fiscal. That is what we stand for, and this model is what we are going to do. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are on a good path. We must fight abuse where it is operated in the social field. In this area, we will still deal with minimum security. For those in need of this assistance, this measure is available – that is not a question – but not for those who use the system with inability to work. This will also have to be a reform approach in the near future, so that we can truly appreciate and acknowledge those people who get up every day in the early days, who work 40 hours a week and are the service providers of this society. Ladies and gentlemen, we must pay attention to them – and the EIA will also implement a policy in this direction!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e15723	I am speaking, Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of – I give it to you and set you a voluntary 7-minute speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e15745	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! High house! The introduction to the current urgent request is carried out: “Unemployment is the greatest danger to society’s cohesion!” I would like to add this: the greatest danger to social peace and, ultimately, the greatest danger to democracy. The situation in Austria is dramatic. You can talk about it as you like. We have – and these are the facts – record unemployment, record debt, a record rate and a record rate. If you listen to the SPÖ and ÖVP colleagues here in plenary, you have to almost get the impression that they are talking about another country. It's all right, it's all right, we've overcome the crisis very well. The opposition only operates panic. [[Abg. Matznetter: That's not true!]] [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: No one claimed that!]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is for me a denial of reality. [[Interlocutory calls from MEPs Wöginger, Wittmann and Königsberger-Ludwig.]] If you can't beautify things at your best, then you hear them again and again: Yes, that is true, we really have a problem, but we have already started to work on it, and we will certainly solve it. That's what I'm asking myself: Who has been in power for centuries? Who has been in the government for centuries? – The state of our country is another. [[Abg. Wittmann: You ruined everything!]] I quote an article from the daily newspaper “Der Standard” – certainly not a FPÖ paper – and comment on one sentence or another from my point of view. [[Abg. Wittmann: In five years you ruined everything!]] "The Standard", 6. October, written on the occasion of the military reform: “The army is pleading and broken. At the moment of need, politicians have no choice but to get through hard. But the army abuser is not the result of a natural disaster, but has been led negligently. For decades, problems have been ignored and reforms have been postponed. Only when the reserves were exhausted and even the fuel went out did the minister present a plan that was more than a placebokur. On the other hand, all other areas of the Republic's problems are at an earlier stage: It is slow down everywhere and the forecasts are disturbing, but somehow it still works. The schools are getting worse, but the essentials are still being taught in classrooms.” A supplement to me: Unfortunately, many cannot read or calculate or write after compulsory school. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] “The universities slide into international rankings, but they continue to produce excellent graduates and great scientific achievements.” A supplement to me: Unfortunately, many hundreds, thousands of these graduates migrate abroad. – This is a huge brain drain that takes place because we cannot offer them the possibilities of development. “The health system is ill at many corners and ends, but most patients find help and healing. The major problems facing the public finances of our pension system are still far in the demographic future: Pensions are still being paid out without the risk of getting the money in the pension institutions.” A supplement to me: However, it must be added that the general budget already includes 18 billion – ASVG 10 billion, officials' pensions 8 billion – per year to keep the pension system up-to-date. “The economy is growing increasingly slowly, but it is not in a recession.” I am adding – the article comes from the beginning of October –: We are already in a recession! “And although the public debt level has reached a level that would once have blazed all the alarm bells, the low interest rates do not make much sense in the current budget.” “Not much” would I relativize, which is a few billion. Mr Strolz has already indicated what happens when the interest rates attract; then, I think, it will be very dark as far as the budget is concerned. “The Standard” writes: "It is this sluggish decline, which inhibits any desire for reform in politics. As long as the crisis cannot be grasped by hand, no one wants to use the political capital that calls for real change." “The Standard” continues: “It would be the sign of a forward-looking policy that it is not only taking the crisis as an opportunity, but already avoiding it in advance. Recognizing the risks is not so difficult: Experts from the Court of Auditors and Wifo produce tons of paper on which they outline useful and necessary measures. However, this implementation requires more courage than individual politicians, and above all the political collective.’ [[Abg. Wittmann: Is that a reading? You usually make a speech!]] So far “The Standard”. You can only sign that. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and neos.]] [[Abg. Wittmann: A speaker gives his own speeches!]] – I can also quote if the quotes are good and 100 percent of my opinion. You don't have to reinvent the light, my colleague. The unemployment rate is close to the record mark of 1953 and is therefore at its highest level after 61 years. This situation must be taken into account once, because it is not easy to go to the agenda: 400 000 unemployed – and I am not yet talking about part-time work, short-time work, small jobs, nor am I talking about the so-called hidden unemployment that we also have. I remember that the figure of 55-65-year-olds in working life is disastrous with about 40 per cent compared to about Sweden with 70 per cent. These are all key figures that worry. They have been talking about reforms for years – nothing is implemented! They are trapped in your system of federalism – it has already been mentioned several times today – and the social partnership that is based on forced membership, which you quickly raised to the constitutional rank in 2007. That's your system, and you won't change anything essential about it. However, this system will not allow Austria to survive in the long term in international competition. The system is not acceptable to the future, we can already see it now. In all major international comparisons, we fall back on competitiveness, innovation and similar parameters. The major topics that need to be addressed have already been mentioned several times today, so I can keep myself short – and the Lamperl already shines –: Pensions, promotions, health reform, federalism reform, inefficiency in education policy, inadequate resources of science and research. I'll get you together. Both of you will not be able to solve the fundamental problems of this country with your old coalition, the permanent compromise of mediocrity for the purpose of your own preservation of power. This country needs a back that goes through the country. This country needs a big throw. This country needs fundamental improvements. This country needs to be made fit for the economically difficult times – that is, by myself – that come to Europe. [[Abg. Wittmann: What paper is this now in?- Oh, my God!]] This country needs a policy that first and foremost recognizes and represents the interests of the country and its population in global competition. This country needs a positive basic attitude of departure, performance orientation and performance reward. This country needs a living culture in which self-initiative is demanded and promoted, a culture in which the best can develop optimally, but also the weak will not be forgotten. This country needs a culture that enables the best heads of leadership and not those with the appropriate party book, a culture that keeps the best heads of the country in the country and does not allow them to emigrate into thousands. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Our country needs a political leadership that recognises that the best recipe against unemployment and the guarantee of a functioning democracy is a competitive economy, in accordance with the basic rules of the social market economy, and creates the appropriate framework conditions. Nothing of that is present in our country, nothing of which is recognizable in the mood picture in our country. We don't have all of that right now. We will not get it until the political landscape in this country changes fundamentally. Until then, we can only hope that the threatening general recession, which is already bliping on the horizon towards Europe, will not fully use it. [[Abg. Wittmann: We have already experienced this for five years!]] Austria will hit it harder than other countries because you have weakened our country in the last 30 years in such a way that we are not fit and equipped for difficult times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e15903	Mr Matznetter spoke on an actual correction. Mr President, you know the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e15927	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! High house! In his speech, FPÖ member Dr. Kassinger has just claimed that we currently have the highest tax and tax rate in Austria ever since. I'm actually correcting: While we currently have a tax and tax rate of 43.8 percent, there was already a tax and tax rate of 44.9 percent in 2002 – under the FPÖ Minister of Finance Karl-Heinz Grasser!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e15964	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Walser. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e15985	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! High house! Unfortunately, Mr Nachbaur, you have not done a great deal of service to your concerns today! A little more into the depths, a little less neoliberal blabla and a little more concrete about the situation, that would have been necessary. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Vogl]] They make it very easy for the representatives of the government parties to concentrate and point out what is happening. We do not all agree that there are attempts to counter unemployment, but – and I give you the right to do so in the title of your urgent request – the necessary reforms are unfortunately left behind by God. And I would have liked us to make this a little concrete. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] I would like to make this an example. This week, in Vorarlberg, quite excited about the fact that the labour market service was cut short where we urgently needed skilled workers, namely at the professional scholarships. We have job shortages. We have many disability professions in the educational field, for example among kindergarten teachers, we have many disability professions in the care sector, and so far it has been the custom and so far it has been very successful to promote jobseekers in this area. Today we have heard the outcome of the education policy of recent years – Mr Wöginger has mentioned the figures – which is dramatic. If we see that almost half of all unemployed people are least qualified, have no corresponding degree or maximum compulsory education, then we actually know exactly where we have to start: on higher education and on a basic school reform, and unfortunately this is not possible. In this respect, a little bit of a move is taking place, even in the ÖVP – even in the ÖVP, I have to say – because individual national leaders no longer agree with the blockade. The paper presented yesterday by the Industrial Union points in the right direction. We need school forms all day, we need a common school until 14. Year of life. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We should have discussed this, and we should point out it again, as I mean. But let me come back to the professional scholarships. These would be intended in particular for people with low educational qualifications, and I should like to point out that – the figures now vote at least for Vorarlberg; I could not research this for all of Austria in the short term, but for Vorarlberg it is about 40 to 50 percent of students, i.e. half of those taking these studies – very many people are sponsored by the labour market service. And that's where we cut in, ladies and gentlemen? – That’s the absolutely wrong way, it’s a short-sighted way, and it’s a panic reaction from this government, because the opposite was announced in August. I have a paper here, which clearly shows that exactly these areas should be supported by the labour market service in August. And what's now? – In the "Vorarlberger Nachrichten" of the 17th century. November is announced that pedagogists are not a flawless profession, although we know that we are in the next Years will invest hundreds of millions of euros in the development of the care sector and in the development of day-to-day forms of education and care. So exactly in that area where we know that there is a shortage of labour and, fortunately, where we have a lot of people interested, exactly there is a reduction. So there can't be much more panic reaction. The budgetary situation really seems to be getting out of the row, and the education sector is really dramatic. What's going on now? – There is a decision of the Board of Directors of the Labour Market Service for Austria as a whole, and there is already the agreement of the Federal Minister for Labour, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection, as from 1. January 2015, so very, very soon, all that is no longer eligible. I have here a list of fifty professions in which we have a shortage everywhere in which we are interested, and exactly there you cut in. [[The speaker holds up papers]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is just as fatal and short-term as the following example: I remember that I had to read a letter from then Federal Minister Elisabeth Gehrer, who warned her of taking a teaching course as a class president of my Matura class ten years ago – no, it was almost 15 years ago. Ten years later we had the result – a lack of labour exactly in the teacher and teacher sector – and here there is a danger that we will have exactly the same development in this sensitive area, among kindergarten teachers, in the nursing sector, in the nursing professions. In conclusion: Mr Nachbaur, I hope you will point this out. The fact that these links should have been addressed should have been addressed. Unfortunately, you missed this opportunity, but fortunately there are the greens, we like to pick it up.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e16071	The next item is Mr Schellhorn's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e16092	Mr President. Appreciate Mr. Federal Chancellor! Estimated State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! If we assume – because this status has been raised – that the Wifo was expected to grow 1.7 percent six months ago and we are already talking about a recession today, then I not only wonder if they have cast, how this will be done, but I also ask myself the following question: Moreover, if we are not the best when it comes to the lowest unemployment rate, what have we done wrong? – although at the same time there is also an extremely high tax rate. I can only tell you what happened to me in the last few days, what I have experienced, because I have visited the small and medium-sized enterprises. As an entrepreneur it is important for me to go to these too, that they do not have to seal and crawl into the main street of Wiedner. That's the wrong way. We go to them, and I can tell them that the O-tone of all is as follows: Less, simpler, fairer! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Let me tell you a few examples. For example, I was in Burgenland. There is an IT company that, of course, because it has a high export rate of 80 percent, also has to offer a service service service, seven days, 24 hours. What are they doing? – They can no longer serve this because the labour costs are so high, and they go with a part, that is, with this service hotline, to Hungary, because there – which is said to be the O-tone – perhaps better English. [[Abg. Darabos: Because they're cheaper!]] – No, not because they are cheaper, but because the labour costs, the additional wage costs at the weekend are too high. This is what I mean by working time flexibility, Mr Darabos. I also mean, with working time flexibility, that – the woman treasure is not there now, but she will know – what Heini Staudinger is talking about, namely that according to KV he has to pay the overtime immediately with a 50 percent surcharge and has no throughput periods, can do no top covers, but then the workers have to release again in January. That's also the wrong way. I think that you just need to talk to the employees' representatives in this regard. Working time flexibility is something very important. It creates jobs and does not destroy them. I am thinking of an entrepreneur in Carinthia, who says that if the cancellation protection for older employees was not, he would stop immediately – but it will not be possible. Pick up this cancellation protection for older employees! I refer to entrepreneurs who say: I have a company with 400 employees in Carinthia, but I'm going to open a exactly the same big company elsewhere in Europe, in another country, because there's a one-stop shop there, there they help me. That's where the authorities help me build a company. – In our country, the entrepreneurs are being hindered by authorities. I remember the following story in Klagenfurt: There is a technical authority – I repeat, a technical authority! – it has 160 lawyers with 320 employees. Do you know what they need to do? – They do not deal with how they help, but with how they hinder. I think we need a very clear mentality reform in our country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] We can only create jobs if it becomes less, simpler and fairer: If you need less bureaucracy, if we make it easier and especially if we make it more just for entrepreneurs in this country. This starts with red tape, which starts with lower taxes, starting with education. I am quite right to Mr Walser: If I can create all day care places, I have a big asset. This is what the entrepreneurs themselves are doing now because our kindergartens, for example, also closed in July and August. Why is that so? Why do entrepreneurs have to do this themselves? - Because they just can't move abroad. And we need, once again, a wide-ranging working time flexibility and we need the flexibility that we can employ older employees to make it easier for us to do so. They may not want to work 30 or 40 hours, who may want to work only 20 hours, but this rigid part-time regulation also hinders the employment of older employees. [[Abg. Matznetter: Which one?]] We do not need any reform, as Mr Wöginger says, to be able to do so. You start right now, right now. They are now fighting for a sum of between €5 billion and €6 billion. This is similar to a cherry core spit, no more and no less. You need the big throw, then you create jobs. Make the system easier! Take less taxes and make it fairer! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e16171	Mr Steinbichler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e16193	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciated spectators on the gallery and on the televisions! We have already heard very interesting statements in the Green Report on thinning, rural areas, consequences – and one thing I have to say again and again, especially when I go to Vienna [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hammer]] There I drive on a Monday or Tuesday and stand on the A 1 in Linz, and there the Vöcklabrucker, the Gmundner, the Kirchdorfer go to work. These are the further consequences of this rural closure policy, the loss of many valuable small farms and small farms. I am delighted if, for example, I hear a report on the new freezer store last time, 120 jobs will be created. [[the speaker holds a corresponding photo in the height]] [[Abg. Rädler: You've already shown this to me today!]] [[Call the ÖVP:300!]] – 120 jobs or 300, but as many are destroyed, nobody says, that is the sensational. This is wonderful if you build new shopping centres and apply them with the new location security and local tax, and not to say that you destroy at least twice the number of jobs outside the rural area. Mr Minister – I apologize! – Mr. Chancellor, I have a request. You said we don't need this quality seal, there's no need for it. [[Cheerfulness and call of the Abg. Wenninger]] – I really can't understand that, and, Mr Commissioner, please, please, not your objection, because it's about jobs. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wenninger.]] And that's what we're on the subject now. What about TTIP? What about CETA? What about TISA? Now we have the first study – it's also good that we go a little bit into the detail – where it means we're losing 600 000 jobs. For an employee, Mr. Collegue, there is partly a loss of €3,000 in income. And then tell anyone that we need this because, unfortunately, she's not here right now, there was a colleague from the Economic Union, from an SME who said: This secures jobs, so our economy can export. In this field of tension, I think we must hold the discussion here in this House. I mean, this is also the responsibility of politics, that it is not always rejected and that says: Well, that's where we've got the surveys from the economic researchers, so we've got the results and the forecasts. – This is mostly like the weather report: The weather report comes daily, and if you claim the opposite of the forecast, you are apparently more right than if you believe the weather report. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Podgorschek.]] The main problem, I believe, is that, of course – Mr Chancellor, I understand this – we have to start from forecasts and assumptions, but then there is reality. Mr. colleague, yesterday – and now you are really asked – I experienced a very interesting event in Vöcklabruck. There was an entrepreneur in whose business there are 180 jobs and no works councils and no trade unionists. [[Call the ÖVP:Yes, and?]] A trade union official believed that he had to convince him how necessary a union is. Do you know what the businessman's answer was? – He said: I'd rather pay your salary to my employees, because they make me in the company with their performance my income. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I think you have to see it from this side. [[Abg. Darabos: Completely wrong approach!]] – Yes, that can be already, Mr. Collegue. But the example shows: How does this look with the success of the right approach?- Oh, my God! We have the results at the table. We are discussing over 400 000 unemployed, but we are not talking about what is happening in rural areas. Unfortunately, Mr Chancellor said that we do not need this quality seal law, and unfortunately, colleagues from the Greens are all away right now. Mrs Klubobfrau has been sitting in our ranks thanking God, because I would like to give an up-to-date example. I have no pleasure at all, Mr. Walser, if you tell my boss that she's doing "blabla". This is not very high, I say for one who works in the Magisterium. [[Interlocutory call from Mr Weninger and Mr Riemer.]] I would have liked to have a more qualified statement. However, today I have listened very well to Mr Willi in his remarks, which really impressed me, only one I did not like. I was surprised that especially the greens for the construction of biogas plants were for the exploitation of the so-called surplus areas in Austria. You have to give it to yourself once! Not only in geography, one should register a five, but also in the field of environment and environmental protection. We have 48 percent of the forest area in Austria, and the little productive area we have, we urgently need to be able to supply our population with valuable, healthy food. And then I'm building biogas plants? Then I farm the most valuable permanent meadow – bad from the point of view of biodiversity, from the point of view of drinking water protection – then I finally change to monoculture of maize? I don't understand today why Minister of Agriculture Berlakovich... – I don't?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: We were never for corn monoculture!]] But for biogas plants! But then you have not yet understood what biogas plants are used to, Mrs Colleague. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[New call of the abg. Glavischig-Piesczek.]] Don't worry at all, no problem! Great! It's not a problem at all, you can just be failed. I think it was the famous Chancellor Kreisky who said: You can learn to do that! – So just learn to do that! That's what you're talking about. There have been thousands of hectares of valuable permanent pasture, and jobs have been gassed. [[Members of the Greens point towards ÖVP.]] - No, you've supported this. Wherever that happens, the Greens are in the government. You've gassed thousands of jobs and you've said you're creating green jobs. [[Call the SPÖ: “Jobs gassed”?]] - Well, please, why? Can I explain? – Mrs Colleague, instead of the biogas plants one should have built cow stables, pig stables, poultry stables, created jobs, had produced healthy food. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] – But so?! – Well, then we'll get her out of China, it's not a problem! These are the facts, and that is why I would ask that we discuss this more widely, so I would ask that our hotel industry and our gastronomy – thank God we have the point tomorrow – will finally become fair partners, so that we can not only present a healthy, well-kept landscape, but also enjoy what is produced in this landscape and not transport the products 12 800 kilometers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] That is why this issue is important. I am grateful for this time of questioning because I am very pleased – and I would like to conclude with a very essential point. [[Abg. Auer: That's not a question hour!]] As a family speaker, I am very proud of our clubwoman that she has known herself to this really important step in getting a child. [[Abg. Rädler: Stop now!]] I can say the following – and I have 13 grandchildren: Yes, Mrs Glawischnig, what do we say – because we have just been talking about skilled workers, because we have just been talking about training; Mr Walser, I think, was it from your club – what do we say to our craftsmen outside? [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Wheeler]] Now time's not that funny anymore. Yesterday they worked with us at home smoking, and that in the weather. - Don't laugh! What do we show them in appreciation? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Knes.]] Mr Colleague of the union, how can they live with 1 600 € monthly income? [[Call to the SPÖ: That was not the one from the union!]] How can he secure a family, the shift worker from Spitz, the shift worker outside, who needs to provide a family? How are they really doing? Have we understood here how the employee, the local worker, is doing? [[Call the SPÖ: We already!]] I would ask, and that is essential that we really talk about the facts that we really, and that is the second very essential point, including those persons who have to have a family with a single income, need to take children into account here. [[Abg. Hammer: The Stoneographs...!]] In this sense, Mr Chancellor, I would ask you to consider this quality seal law again, to consider it from the point of view of employment, because this is about jobs in the region. This is about processing, this is about finishing, this is about selling and this is about health and the environment. In this sense, I ask for support.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e16476	Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e16497	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Chancellor! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would like to refer once again to the urgent question that is being raised today, and I would like to ask my colleague Reborn at one point in their urgent request, namely that unemployment is certainly a major problem for every individual affected person and, of course, is a major challenge for society as a whole. I think that's where we all agree. But if I let the speeches of today's Members pass such a piece of revision again, I often think: I do not know exactly whether we really live in the same country and whether we also read the same facts and look at the same things. Mr Strolz said in his speech that Austria is negative in dealing with the crisis. – Mr Commissioner, I really like to listen to you, but I did not fully understand it, and I will then also say why. [[Abg. Stroll: Growth!]] And my colleague, honey, said that we were just going to sit down on the crisis. – I would like to remind you that we have really been through the crisis for many years, over the entire period of crisis, if I may say so, because we have had the lowest unemployment in Austria – and you all know this, ladies and gentlemen – all over the years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Honey.]] We have had the lowest youth unemployment. Now we're in second place. As far as GDP is concerned, we are in second place across Europe. So I don't notice we're cutting so badly. Of course, you can see everything through the opposition glasses. I am always trying to see both sides and can certainly say that the Federal Government has worked well in recent years, that due to the work of the Federal Government – and I would like to make it a bit attached to the labour market policy – we have really managed the crisis very well. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They all know that, especially as regards youth unemployment, not only a head of state has come to us to see how we manage youth unemployment to be so low in comparison with all other countries in Europe. [[Abg. Stroll: Yes, there are some good things!]] Every unemployed person is too much, not a question, but you can still say: We have dealt very well with the crisis in recent years with our programmes and with our concepts of dual training and labour market policies. [[Abg. Honey: She'll be covered when she's over, but it's getting worse and worse!]] I say it again and again, Mrs Schatz: That doesn't just happen, it's done! This is done by responsible policies, that is done through responsible labour market policies, and this makes our skilled entrepreneurs, not a question, and, of course, also the skilled workers. That doesn't just happen, but there's also hard work behind it. And in recent years the Federal Government has worked really hard to ensure that we are not among the worst countries in crisis management. [[Abg. Treasure: Is unemployment rising and the economy is shrinking: Yes or no?]] I would like to remind you, my colleague, of a few figures, because in the political debate we often forget to express the facts in figures. For example, over the last ten years, the funds for labour market services have been increased by 60 percent. In 2014/2015 we have the highest budgets that have ever been decided. [[Abg. Honey: But unemployment has risen!]] – Yes, but it is so that something is also done. I emphasize: Something is being done about it! Furthermore, there is the highest level of training, amounting to almost € 1.4 million. These funds will also be available next year, ladies and gentlemen. And it will be because we know that older workers are currently much more often affected by unemployment, and more money is available for this area, namely, €120 million more. I would like to point out, in particular, with the older workers affected by unemployment, the drama that exists in this context: On the one hand, it is always said that the retirement age has to be increased, and on the other hand, as we know, older workers are being “exempted” because they seem too expensive. It is precisely this that we must focus on! And the Federal Government is doing this by providing €120 million more for active labour market policies in this sector. [[Abg. Honey: You take more money into your hand, but you're killing too!]] Mrs. Schatz, you may also know: It is in this area that pensioners are offered for the first time in employment projects and in so-called socio-economic enterprises. That means: If older workers lose their jobs and thus may have only a short time to settle for the regular retirement age, they can work in such establishments. I believe that this is a very important measure, because it will allow us to acquire necessary retirement periods or to acquire a lack of insurance periods and because we know that at this age unemployment often affects the psyche, because it will slow down a little. That is why I believe that this measure is very important. I also think it is very important that you have very often criticized in the committee that you are finally going to offer more professional courses in the AMS field, so that you are not offering so much application training, but rather technical courses. This federal government not only recognises this problem, but also actually manages it: with effective measures, with effective labour market policies, with active labour market policies. Then: The worst thing is if people endure long periods of unemployment. We all know that. This affects self-confidence, which reduces self-esteem, and this, of course, also has a negative effect on the wallet. That is why we must make every effort to ensure that people who become unemployed are quickly reintegrated into the work process.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e16620	The next item is Mrs Schittenhelm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e16641	Mr President. Appreciate Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) First of all, I would like to say something to Mr Kassinger: We, the People's Party, are not real objectors! We are those people who take up problems and work in a solution-oriented way and also bring solutions. We have demonstrated this in recent years and decades. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] On the comments of Mr Schellhorn very briefly: He complained about how terrible it is in Carinthia that entrepreneurs are actually being hindered in their power of action. There I can invite him to Lower Austria and Upper Austria, where we already have the one-stop shop. There, employees are doing excellent work on the district headquarters, providing support in order to move forward as quickly as possible settlements of new businesses. This also demonstrates the statistics. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The numbers of the unemployed and also the employees have already been mentioned. Interestingly, despite a very high level of employment, we still have an increase in unemployment. After all, we currently have 310 306 unemployed, people looking for work. We all know such women and men. There is nothing worse for those concerned than to be without work without safety. This is especially true of the families. And that must also be seen from the psychological side, which means for the individual in society and for the families. I would now like to focus very briefly on women's employment. In the second quarter of this year, we had an average of 4,222,200 persons in employment, of which 2,237 were 400 were men and 1,984,700 were women. What does that tell us? – That tells us that a working world without women is not possible! [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the SPÖ.]] Similarly, an economic world without women is not possible. The employment rate in women aged 15 to 64 has increased slightly and is 68.6 percent, and the male is not the same as the female. It is much higher and is 77.1 percent. But we must also take note – and that is what should not only encourage us to think, but where we must act and where actions by the Minister of Social Affairs must also be put – that from the 50th. As one colleague said earlier, the level of employment is falling significantly, with women halving almost to 38 per cent, men falling to 47.7 per cent. This development, of course, increases the risk of poverty in old age, especially in older women who do not gather the years of contribution due to child training. High house! However, we want to point out not only the facts but also the facts – and we should not ignore what efforts are needed, otherwise we would not be standing where we are today – that we were able to keep stable at the difficult stage, in the 2008/2009 economic and financial crisis, with a 3-billion economic package in Austria, economic and labour space. It is quite clear that we want to take appropriate measures in the future. The Federal Government is therefore focusing on investments aimed at supporting the economy and the labour market. These include four areas which have already been mentioned by the Federal Chancellor: advanced investment in broadband development and universities, attracting and retrieving existing economic resources, and the rapid use of new measures against the crisis, fair and unbureaucratic economies. But one thing has to be clear to us: Not only do we need large-scale companies, but we also need small and medium-sized enterprises, especially in rural areas, which are an important employer there. We must do everything we can to motivate these businesses to expand further, and we must do everything we can to create new businesses. That also means: The economy does not need punishment, but the economy needs motivation and liberation from unnecessary bureaucratic ballast. That is also what we are looking at from the ÖVP and what we have done in the past. Clearly – and there we are, I believe, all agreed –: Only from a good, thriving economy can we achieve something. This is what we need to ensure social balance, social balance in our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e16727	The next item is the speech by Mr Themessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e16748	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I welcome the appointment of the Free Youth from the 15th century. District. Welcome to Parliament! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to refer to Mr Matznetter's actual correction. Mr Matznetter made an actual correction on the statement made by our colleague, Mr Kassager, today, and he claimed that the tax rate was 43.8 percent. Mr Matznetter is Vice-President of the Chamber of Commerce. The Economic Chamber has published the latest figures, and therefore the tax rate in Austria is 45.2 percent. He, as Vice-President, would have to know. I therefore note that our colleague Dr. Kassinger was quite right in saying that we have the highest tax rate in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Federal Chancellor! I have been telling you for several years now: A change and an improvement in the current state can be achieved if the government finally agrees on how the real situation in Austria really is. As long as you stand on every occasion and say: We are the best in Austria; we have the best figures on unemployment; we have the best figures as regards the tax rate, we have record employment!, and some other things more as long as you do not actually understand what it really looks like, and that is behind the figures you are always presenting, as long as nothing will change in this Republic. They're talking about record employment. – You are right, we have over 3.5 million employees in Austria. However, they do not say that over 800 000 of them are so-called minor employees, half-day workers – all employment conditions that guarantee an income from which one cannot live! And you sit down on every occasion and say, We are one of the richest countries in this world and in Europe! – In fact, if you read in the poverty report that 1.2 million Austrians are at risk of poverty, you would have to be ashamed of the ground and soil. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr. Federal Chancellor, I don't know, haven't you registered all this yet? I don't know how you deal with it! I am now coming to the 2014 mid-term report because there are some very interesting things in it. By the way, this report is fresh, published this November, i.e. this month. I don't know if You already know him. I got him last night and already hacked him through. There are things inside here that you present your projects, but there are quite different things in the mid-term report. For example, you have a comprehensive debureaucratisation initiative. . I now give you two examples where you have decided exactly the opposite where exactly the opposite of what you want is reached. For example, the Energy Efficiency Act: You know that this has become a bureaucracy monster, not leading to what it should actually lead to. You didn't listen to us, now you're gonna have to bathe it out. Next example: Craftsman bonus. – The craftsman bonus causes a bureaucracy that is huge. This has led to the fact that not even 40 percent of the existing resources, which were already very modest, have been exploited until now. That means that it was nothing but a pipe-creper. This is how it goes, for example, with the so-called re-foundation initiative: Austria is located in Europe among the countries with the lowest re-establishment rates of up to 6 percent. We know that nine out of ten Austrian small businesses are family companies. They also write in this report that more than 45 000 small and medium-sized enterprises are in the process of being handed over in the next few years. We have been demanding for years that you make the business transfer, especially for family businesses, easier and better. You know very well that there is still nothing in this respect, although I have been promised by my colleague, Mr Matznetter, as well as by your government partner, Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner, that something must be done here for years. Passing is absolutely nothing! This report also makes it quite clear that, in the case of financing for small and medium-sized enterprises, there are problems that access to the financial market is extremely difficult, of course Basel III is still intensifying, with the equity ratio now required. All this is being held here. And what's going on here, and I'm just wondering: You write here – and I say it again, the report is from this month, so fresh! –: "For 2014 and 2015, real GDP growth is expected to increase by 0.8 percent and so on. 1.2 percent expected.” You know, at the time it was printed, it was already clear that the 0.8 percent for this year and the 1.2 percent for next year will not think. And here we are on exactly the subject on which Mr Matznetter's correction has taken place: It is precisely this government, and above all the Social Democracy, with the figures! This has already been shown at the official debt ratio of the state of Austria. At last, the EU has responded to the fact that you are hiding debt permanently – via the ASFINAG, the ÖBB and so on – and demands that this be taken into account now. We are now no longer at a debt level of 70 percent, but we are moving towards a debt level already reaching 90 percent. And then stand down on every occasion and say: We are the best in Europe and in the EU, we have nothing to do! I'll tell you once again: As long as you do not really want to take the facts to heart or even see the numbers behind your mentioned figures, nothing will change in this Republic for so long. And as my colleague Kassinger has already correctly recognized: This will change if the conditions of power in this House change. I can hope that will be soon because the population has finally opened their eyes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e16845	I call Mr Köchl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e16867	Dear ladies! Dear gentlemen! Appreciated spectators in front of the TV sets and on the gallery! First of all, I would like to thank the Stronach team for having to debate this issue today, because the 400 000 people who are currently unemployed in Austria are an important topic – every one of those who suffer from unemployment. At the same time, we had a discussion today, including from the Stronach team, in which statements fell like: If we have a crisis, we cannot afford environmental protection! - That's how I understood. I'm worried about that. Interpreting It shall: If you think back to the collapse of the GDR, there was also a crisis. From your logic, we would not have invested anything in environmental protection at that time and would continue to drive around with the Trabant. This is what I have observed from the Stronach team: a trabant policy – a policy that is not quite up to date. However, we do not want to discuss the exchange of beats between red and black, over a percent more or less tax ratio. In general, the tax rate is too high, we know, but from the green point of view, we definitely do not want to respond to this slump of taxation, because this is simply too short in the debate. It's not always about these keywords: Reduce taxes, reduce taxes, reduce taxes! as it is very strong from the ÖVP side, but also from the Stronach and FPÖ teams. On the contrary, we must bear in mind what the taxes are used for! A slim state is not always an advantage. It is about considering what the tax revenue of that State is used for. There are countries with very, very low taxes, where it is not possible to go jogging without a bodyguard. We definitely don't want that in Austria! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The SPÖ is still very opposed: here employers, here employees. This is not quite the green approach, but the old trade union policy of the 1970s. In reality, the fronts are completely resolved, there is no longer only the situation of employers and workers, there are very, very many mixed forms: There are new self-employed, there are at least 270 000 one-person companies in Austria. From the ÖVP always comes the scream: Performance, performance, performance! – I can hardly hear it anymore, honestly. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] If it becomes concrete [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] We had the debate, Mr. Obernosterer, I once asked you: What is the performance of heirs? What the performance of heirs is, you haven't been able to explain that to me until today. So performance in the form of hard work is taxed, and heirs are tax-free – this is a strange ÖVP approach! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I am surprised that blue side is still talking about jobs, because I've always heard of you just from work bans – from work bans that defend you with teeth and claws. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] There are people in Austria you want to ban the work, and that is not so few people! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Subsequent calls to the FPÖ.]] – Please do not call for so many calls, finally the FPÖ has proved where it can create jobs: in Carinthia – at the prosecutor and in the judiciary! These were the jobs created primarily by the FPÖ! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Darmann: You always have such a polemic!]] Mr Darmann, if you really believe you have a reference to good labour market freedom policy, look at Carinthia! You have definitely failed in the last ten years. There was definitely a blue labour market policy in Carinthia: They have failed in the unemployment rate as in the budget figures. We also need this, I think, not to be carried out here. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Darmann.]] At the Stronach team, I am always wondering how you are holding the debate here: from our point of view, not quite at the height of time. We also want to invest in environmental projects, we want to invest in the energy transition. One meets with the other very positively. We know that € 17.3 billion will be spent in Austria on energy imports: 17.3 billion each year! Today we have also talked about climate protection. These €17.3 billion are the very potential for creating jobs in the region – of course not with a socialist policy that continues to allow 700 000 oil heaters in Austria, of course not with a policy that is a bit retro! But there is potential. I have also just said that – and no one has said this today about you – with which we finance it: with these €17.3 billion, which are currently flowing for energy imports, fossil energy to Dubai and Russia. Another example of where there are many jobs from a green point of view – and we really cannot argue about that because we hopefully agree – is: People get older and older, and we have to invest in the field of care – the care sector has already been addressed today. That's just the way it is. None of you will be able to leave Grandpa and Grandma alone at home if they are in need of care. So this is an area in which we need to invest. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Also in the area of housing: Every person who is looking for an apartment in Austria and does not find a place is actually one too much, because the investment in housing with climate protection, with energy efficiency, and at the same time the financing is as cheap as never before. So we have potential there. Today, a number of issues have already been raised where there is a need for further action. [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] The topic of overtime has already been mentioned by my colleague Birgit Schatz: We need a policy with which to resolve this strange situation – on the one hand, people with 70, 80 hours at the burn-out, on the other hand people who do not find a job – with whom we reunite these two things, also start overtime and create jobs. [[Abg. Darmann: In Carinthia you are in government responsibility...!]] [[Abg. Darmann: These are speech bubbles!]] However, there are also courageous proposals in the field of trade regulations; Mr Schellhorn has already mentioned this today. No one can explain to me why we still need the Chamber of Commerce, this moloch in this size. We need a strong Chamber of Commerce, a strong representation, no question. But why do we need in every federal state a special representative of the advertising agencies, the Schuster, the hairdressers? – They all have similar concerns. No one can tell me that in Carinthia you have to pay 180 € to the chamber and in Vienna for the same 75 €. [[Abg. Neubauer:... doesn't say anything about it!]] So there are huge construction sites, Chancellor, and I hope you will become active. No one has yet explained to me why we did this absurdity in 2014, this contrast: Workers and employees continue to maintain. Can we finally create a form of employment that merges and ends this retro-political process, here workers and here employees? – That would be a bold announcement. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I have already mentioned the EPU, that is, the one-person companies. I don't want to carry it out too far, but one thing has already been said to you: If there are 270 000 people who are self-employed and we have 400 000 unemployed, it would be sufficient for each of these one-person entrepreneurs to create a job. This would be possible if we were to create the framework conditions and then we would have abolished two thirds of unemployment throughout Austria: 270 000 jobs, from the potential, with 400 000 unemployed. I'd like to have told you that. There are so many absurdities in the system – all would now overstep my time –: Col. Obernosterer and dear ÖVP, why do you need a certificate of qualification when sewing textile clothing – in the Chamber of Commerce – but without proof of competence you can sew parachutes? – This is a policy I find absurd, which is not comprehensible. [[Abg. Darmann: You're in there, it's up to you!]] We should finally make courageous reforms. I am currently seeing all of you here as a non-reformist. We have heard it today – I wrote it down to myself – “we want”, “we become”, “it should be” and so on. Mrs. Schittenhelm has still said: “We’re going to look at the ÖVP” – but it hurts me when I catch my eye – and Mr. Ertlschweiger said: “we must”, “we should”, “we could”. I can’t hear this ‘ man, ’ “must man, ” “shouldn’t be heard anymore! Let us finally take these reform steps in the sense of the Republic! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e17080	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Alm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e17101	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Yes, let's start with a good news: Austria has overtaken Sweden and is now the leader of the tables. The bad news is: This refers not only to football, but also to the tax rate, which has already been the subject of several issues today. We know that the highest level was recorded at the time in the era Karl-Heinz Grasser, but we are still quite far ahead in the European comparison. But that's not the only table where we're far ahead. We are also very far ahead of government debt. Per capita debt: Top five in Europe. Total tax burden of companies: There too we are in the leading field. Innovation: If you look at the Global Competitiveness Index or Global Competitiveness Report and the Global Innovation Index, you see, Austria is slipping out in recent years. I am not concerned now with dissuading the economic location of Austria in any form. I don't want to dramatize this, I don't want to continue the term "crisis". But fact is, here's a trend: Austria's slipping! If you look at the topics, you also know where to go. These are precisely the subject of tax burden, which is the tax rate, and this is, of course, the topic of innovation, innovation associated with unemployment. We have an unemployment which has quadrupled over the last forty years. One point where we can start is the area that creates new jobs: the area of innovative entrepreneurship, the so-called start-up. Where is innovation taking place, in addition to universities and large companies with research and development departments? – Exactly in the companies that have been founded for innovation reasons, namely in the start-ups that can ultimately act faster, want to make products and services more marketable and thus also create jobs to achieve this market maturity! However, in international comparison, Austria offers a very difficult environment for start-ups: Start-ups are really disabled! There is a trade order that has long been revised. There are many requirements, it takes a long time to obtain, for example, an operating permit. There is still this absurdity of the minimum cold. We have already made several corresponding requests, and I am saving myself a repetition at this point. Alternative financing is made more difficult: Crowdfunding and crowd investment. In fact, there should have been a legal system here since the end of March. The Greens have made a request, we have tabled a request for it – nothing has happened! But equity is the prerequisite for later obtaining foreign capital. In Austria, the Vormundung rules, everyone has to be protected somehow. People who want to invest must not invest – look at the Alternative Investment Fund Manager Act! – or they may only invest with small amounts. Look For example, you're on the border with the prospectus obligation! Self-employed are forced into self-employment in GPLA tests. Companies must not decide who they are in contact with, because companies they want to compete with cannot decide for themselves how high their parent capital is to be at the minimum. Remember the story with the GmbH light! There was a reasonable decision by the middle of the year last year, 2013 that the minimum stock capital would be reduced to €10 000. What happened then? Then legal uncertainty broke out. As a result, the stock capital was raised again. This strange addition “privileged” has been withdrawn, and the entrepreneurs, the founders, no longer knew what they were doing. This uncertainty is harmful to the site. Then there was the story with the profit-free amount, which was especially important for EPU. We heard, Matthias Köchlhat said: More than a quarter of a million EPUs in Austria should be taxed in addition to the removal of the profit-free amount. Why did you let that happen? Why did you permit this, dear Economics Member? Why has the Chamber of Commerce approved this? EPU and start-ups in particular, young companies are the companies that are least represented by the Chamber of Commerce. The Chamber of Commerce wants to be a representative for entrepreneurs, but does not operate business-friendly and does not operate entrepreneurship. The Chamber of Commerce is a bureaucracy that manages our duties. Of course, with these contributions, the Chamber of Commerce is also doing something in various sections, but a representation of interests for entrepreneurs is definitely not the Chamber of Commerce today, in this form. If EPU, like Matthias Köchlwar's proposal, is to hire another person, then immediately the chamber envelope 2 will be due. That is, if someone takes the risk of creating a job, he can pay even more. That is why we are also in favour of the removal of this chamber envelope 2. We also encouraged, at least for EPU quite soon, in 2019 to perform an opt-out from the Chamber of Commerce or from the mandatory contributions – and subsequently a general opt-out from this membership. The promulgation of companies in Austria must finally stop! Entrepreneurs, start-ups, EPU know for themselves whether they need a representation and whether they want to pay contributions for it. If the Chamber of Commerce works in a performance-oriented manner and, in the sense of entrepreneurs and start-ups, represents its interests politically, these companies – start-ups, EPU – will also be happy to pay for it.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e17175	Next word: Mrs Dr Lintl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e17196	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! If the voest is considering not building their new blast furnaces in Linz anymore, all the alarm bells must cry! As early as 1992, the EU has already agreed in the Maastricht Treaty to maintain the conditions for the competitiveness of industry. In this way, the EU Commission was already hoping to respond appropriately to Europe's threatening industrial lute. Today it is so far: Europe is being deindustrialized! One goes away from the productive economy, to the services, which are not needed for themselves, as we see in the financial crisis. We're leaving the real economy. If steel production is pressed in Austria, the car industry and its supplier industry will subsequently also be reduced. We would, in general terms, be under a ver... Threefold economic impact, because production also creates jobs in in-store areas. That's about twice as many more. In Austria, the automotive industry is creating many jobs. With the indirectly acceptable employees, 4.7 percent of all employees are part of the automotive industry. In a broader definition, it is even 10.9 percent. Europe is therefore in competition with emerging countries, in competition with the USA. This competition becomes tougher daily. We from the Stronach team do not want Austria's economic location to be weakened. We want to strengthen the manufacturing industry. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] This is only possible by creating an industrial-friendly environment. I therefore ask that these conditions be established.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e17241	Mr Matznetter has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e17263	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! In this urgent request of the team Stronach a bit of herb and beet are mixed. There are, however, a few points that are quite discussive. It's just that we have to make a few things clear first. First: Since 2008/2009 we have the largest economic and financial crisis for 80 years! And yes, we have an unpleasant increase in unemployment, but not only in Austria, but in all industrialized countries, but especially in Europe. In this European context, we have a much better performance than almost all other countries. This is a performance of the Austrian companies, the workers, but also the Federal Government under Chancellor Faymann, who managed to provide better data in these years after the economic downturn, especially in 2009 to the extent of the possibilities in this economic situation. They have prevented unemployment from becoming as bad as in many other countries in the world. I can remember what happened. In Austria, we have also increased the volume of investment in infrastructure to the necessary savings in the budgetary field. There was a recent labour market package of € 550 million for older workers, additional amounts for the care of children – keyword day care – with € 400 million, extension of childcare facilities by € 350 million, care allowance/24-hour care with € 310 million, care fund extension 2017/2018 with € 700 million, housing offensive with € 180 million, free gear for 85 000 children with 80 million... [[Abg. Peter Wurm: What does the dental clamp have to do with the unemployed?]] If you look at health care in a country – Mr Commissioner, I have often experienced short-sightedness, but what comes from the FPÖ ranks is no longer to be surpassed! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] A health system that keeps people healthy instead of sick is one of the essential prerequisites for an economic location. What do you imagine? – If you have a dental population with broken teeth, you will rejoice. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] They were never employers and never had to report illness. That is inconceivable, Mr President. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Really, it's inconceivable! Ask for the real factors why businesses are producing in Austria: because we have a functioning health system! [[Abg. Darmann: Talk to a dentist once!]] Fortunately, the FPÖ is not responsible for all of this. That would be a disaster for the country! [[Abg. Peter Wurm: The gear is the rescue of Austria!]] But I'm coming back to the main point. In a difficult situation, the total number of measures taken by the Federal Government has left the country with a significantly higher increase in unemployment. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: The toothband saves Austria!]] Our employment guarantee for all young people up to the age of 18 creates a framework for us to be among the best in youth unemployment. Why? – Because by means of a number of measures we ensure that each job seeker has a training place at the end of the day. You should thank Minister Hundstorfer and Minister Mitterlehner for this! This is one of the best measures that have been taken. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] We're doing something for the young people! They're just criticizing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But let me come to the more difficult questions. The Stronach team has raised the question of liberalisation. In recent years, we have been taking very broad liberalisation steps where it has been possible. Look at how the trade order was 15 or 20 years ago! And yes, Mr Köchl is right, there are also some where you ask yourself: Is that not even too much? Sewing parachutes: Don't we need a qualification? – Is a legitimate question! But why go here and protect the industrial clothing, where people need to be protected from chemical influences, which are often one of the means to reduce the risk of an accident at work, that is, do you want to be able to do anyone? – These are exactly the questions where you have to try to find a means. We liberalized photography. We really did, and there are no more protests against it today. But we have many other professions, where this is not so easy. The ones we still have should tell you which should be, not just start with the extreme examples and explain why, for example, the arms trade should be regulated. I'd like to explain it to you. I would also like to explain to you why we want to protect young people for the supply of alcohol and nicotine. All of this will be ensured, and I believe that this reasonable path is one that we should continue. So far, it's a success for this country, so people like to live here. I hope that the proposals of Americanisation, such as those in the field of trade regulations, will not take place too soon. Let's continue our reasonable course! One thing was also written to you in the main book: Social partnership has made this country one of the most vital! You do not need to attack this, which works between employers and employees. There's no need for any intermediate calls from the opposition. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] This country has become healthy through social partnership and it is still today!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e17384	The next item is the speech by Mr Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e17406	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This urgent request from the Stronach team is interesting. There is indeed unemployment, the lack of reform, and then Frank Stronach is quoted: Everything would be different. Everything would be far better. Then I looked at the example of Canada, Mrs Nachbaur. You were working there too, weren't you? There Mr Stronach was active and he is still active, since his daughter was relatively far in politics, close to the head of government, and everything had to be much better. It's only interesting: We in Austria have around 5 percent unemployed, in Canada it is 7 percent. It's only interesting, ladies and gentlemen: Last year we had a Maastricht deficit of 1.5 percent, in Canada it was over 3%. [[Intervening calls from the Deputies Nachbaur and Peter Wurm.]] It's only interesting: The lack of reform will is also kept to us, and then I read there, you can go Google, these days you get it right away: In Canada, in particular, the manufacturing industry is far behind competition in terms of productivity. – And then go here and explain the world to us. So look at it a little bit from where you're from. That would certainly be appropriate. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Reciprocating:! You didn't listen to me!]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is said that the unemployment rate in Austria is highest. That's right, she's very high, and that's bitter, not a question. However, it is also the highest number of jobs. That's gonna be forgotten. It is also forgotten that there are thousands of open spaces. Nevertheless, every unemployed person who exists is too much, undisputed. However, economic activity is also a matter of mood. Now we can all go through the country and conjure up the ruin and break everything up. A few years ago, the foreign exchange was: The euro is broken, Europe is broken. There was even a university professor who moved through the country in March 2011 – he taught at the University of Linz and also at the University of Vienna – and meant that 2011 was the year of state pleite, there would be something like functional money, because the euro was gone. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Reciprocating.]] Such a thing can teach and explain to the astonishing public that everything is nothing. The fact that Austria has not coped with the crisis as a result of the measures taken by this Federal Government has made it even better is forgotten. The main thing is, you can cheat, you can bring negative examples and make things worse. Now one should not spread praises, no question at all, because there are quite a lot to improve. Perhaps we should talk less about debureaucratisation and do more in this area! But it is interesting if some people complain here that in Carinthia it takes some more time that Mr Köchl can no longer hear from the Greens, we should, should and should continue. Mr President, I should like to thank Your group is in the Carinthian state government. [[Abg. Darmann: Exactly!]] Look, I'll show you something. – Mr Commissioner, you too could be careful [[Abg. Darmann: Yes, I'm listening, I'm just calling!]] My district of Wels-Land has more strong companies than the whole country of Carinthia – interesting. And I'll tell you something. In Upper Austria, the district headquarters, the officials, the employees work in an excellent way, and I guarantee you, if your documents are voting as company founders, you will have your approval within 30 days because excellent work is done. That's the difference. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Further calls of the Abg. Darmann.]] You may be annoyed. I'm glad. It may well be annoyed that we should perhaps make some improvement. I've been talking to someone from a company I'm in good business relationship with these days. It is a company with 70 employees. Man told me that 2014 will be his best year. But it would immediately employ more by five employees if not the working time law were not hindered. [[Call the SPÖ:Well go!]] - Yeah, that's what he told me. There we might need to think a little bit about where we can make some sort of relief. Then I'll hear from the credit terminal all the time. So the banks no longer lend, the economy gets no loans – interesting. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dietrich.]] Yes, those companies that shudder back and forth like the bees on the flowers, do not know to whom they have a constant relationship, in which the documents do not vote, have quite difficulties. But those companies that maintain cooperation where there is transparency in which the data that have a good rating note are voting, they have no difficulty, they have no problem. The fact is, however, that: Have you forgotten that in Carinthia, a director of the board, and I do not mean Mr. Kulter, was sentenced for unfaithfulness because he granted a loan that was indispensable? You should also think about this – because every bank manager will be careful when a rating note of 3, 3, 5 or 4 is on the economic question – whether it is important and correct in his view to grant this credit, so that the company may be able to get through in difficult years when it is in court. I would like to thank you as a bank manager when things are being held up in this way. We should also add the various tests by the EBA to the stress test. This will also lead to a slightly smaller driving of balance sheets that you are careful. Because if the stress test does not exist, if the equity ceiling is too thin, then you have the next problems. This also reduces the balance sheet of € 1 billion, which also means significantly less lending and thus a weakening of the economy. You have to know. Maybe you should think about it a little bit. Even though it has been pointed out today: the Greens on economic policy. I'm always very excited about that. [[Abg. Steinhauser: Bravo, the enthusiasm is great!]] For renewable energy. - Great. Have you forgotten the Lambach power plant? Ladies and gentlemen, in my neighboring community they were sitting in front of the excavators to prevent renewable energy and the hydroelectric power station. You should still be ashamed of these actions today and do not prejudice us here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz]] Or, because you sometimes feel very critical about location policy: Do you know how important it was to connect the country of Styria to the upper Austrian central area, namely through the expansion of the Pyrn motorway? Who sat there and demonstrated and prevented? Ladies and gentlemen who used to work in your group. You might recall, ladies and gentlemen, instead of going here and showing us examples now. [[Calls to the Greens.]] The same is true of agriculture. Mr Pirklhuber did not allow the agricultural investment programme to be discredited. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] It sees this programme as negative, but forgets that it ensures jobs for thousands of people. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinhauser.]] Therefore: Economic policy is better lifted by the government than by you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e17578	Mr Hable came next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e17601	Mr President. Estimated government bank! High house! Citizens in the gallery and in front of the screens! Record unemployment in Austria is the subject of this urgent request. The question is: Why is that so? There are several reasons. One essential reason, of course, is the far too high tax burden in this country. The delicate plant of the upswing, which was announced to us not too long ago, has disappeared. It's gone because it's being suppressed by this tax burden. The economy does not grow, but if something is growing reliably in this country, it is the tax burden. Income tax revenue, wage tax revenue, still bubbling, is still growing. It is clear, of course, that people in this country no longer consume when they are removed from the money through constant tax increases; of course, it is clear that companies in that country no longer invest if they are constantly hampered and disabled by this tax burden. Then, of course, the tax reform is the worst thing for this federal government. That's it. There have already been a few things going through what this tax reform is supposed to look like, and I would like to say what this tax reform cannot definitely be. What is definitely not a tax reform? This is addressed to Mr Bundeskanzler and to Mr Vice-Chancellor, who is now both not here. What is no tax reform? In any case, tax reform is not one financed by new debts. One thing we must have learned from Greece, one thing we must have learned from 52 years of debt policy in that country, namely that it does not go on this way. What is not a tax reform is the principle “left pocket – right pocket”: pull out of one bag and put into the other. This too is not a tax reform. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Estimated colleagues from SPÖ and ÖVP! It is also not a tax reform if it only compensates for cold progression, namely this automatic advance in higher tax classes. Therefore, the increased volume of €5 billion is also extremely unambitionable, because this would best compensate for what has been lost since the last so-called tax reform in 2009 by the cold progression, due to this constant tax increase. It is also definitely not a tax reform if it does not radically simplify the tax system. This tax jungle, this transparency is no longer to endure. It is not to be understood that you actually need a tax advisor for every small thing. It is also not a tax reform if it does not eliminate the injustice of performance in that country. If one wants to do something, if one wants to work, if one wants to save something, then one should not be hindered, then one should not be punished, but then one should be received with open arms, namely also through a tax system that relieves, which is simple and more transparent and just. Estimated colleagues from ÖVP and SPÖ, Federal Chancellor, Mr Vice-Chancellor, stop talking about the past! Take care of your responsibility! Finally, start to shape the future! And if you are unable and unwilling to shape this future, then give up the responsibility for this country. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e17659	The next item is the speech by Mr Vetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e17681	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! High house! If I listen to the regular Canada and Stronach bashing of the government parties here, I feel strengthened by the fact that there have been two parties last year who have managed to do so without the support of the parties in this House. [[Objection to SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Call the ÖVP: So please!]] Two parties without Party Promotion! [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Hable.]] [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] There are a lot of people here who believe, all people, all entrepreneurs in this country simply have to depend on the state. This is the philosophy behind many things. If we are talking about high unemployment today, this also has its reason for the government to believe: People should be dependent on us, they should get promotions and similar things and then say: Thank you for doing this, thank you for giving money from one bag to another. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] That is why we are saying, ladies and gentlemen: Let's leave the people the money, let's not take this money away! Let us leave it to the entrepreneurs, to the workers, to the people! We do not do a client policy and do not say that we want to give something to our employees. They never talk about the boosting of the economy as a whole, but always about the boosting of consumption. If we say that we want a tax reform, a real tax reform, a courageous tax reform of €15 billion over five years, lowered 3% each year, then we say: The money should remain with the entrepreneurs, the money should stay with the workers, stay with the people, because in the end they can deal with it much better. Even though they may sometimes make a stupid sense, but as much nonsense as the government makes, so many senseless banking finances and the like, people don't. The money is just better removed from people! [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Hable.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Let us therefore make a bold tax reform of €15 billion, over five years, 3 percent each year! You can also finance that. In the first year – and we have had this calculated – we have a self-financing rate of 75 percent, ladies and gentlemen. That's just a few hundred million in the first year. And then, by 2019, you will come to an additional boosting of the economy on investment and consumption, ladies and gentlemen, and have an addition of 130 000 jobs that we have calculated. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Just be much more courageous! Make You do this, a proper tax reform for the people! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e17755	The last word is from the honourable Member's office. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e17777	Mr President. Estimated government members! High house! I also greet the viewers on the ranks, the NEOS Pink Ladies! As always, there are several reasons in life for what we experience, so it is with unemployment. I would like to start with our understanding of unemployment insurance. Their function is to protect people from what happens to them when they lose their job in the meantime, but unemployment insurance should also enable mobility between two jobs to be bridged. In the meantime, we use the AMS as a large-scale money extermination machine to hide structural unemployment. For example, there is still a blockage period, which is not intended to combat unemployment, but only to finance early retirement models of farms. Other millions are going into education. But if we look at who goes into education, then we see that these are already above-average people, education-fine people who do not belong to the problem groups on the labour market. There is also a 12-month educational career when a person chooses a multi-year university course. So the money will not be used properly, but it will be thrown out to the window. In addition, the Court of Auditors report on ‘Come Back’ integration aid is still coming today. The Court of Auditors notes that 52 percent of the funds are attributable to a takeover effect. That means that 52 percent of the supported employment conditions would have been achieved if there had been no such promotion – outcast money! However, no one cares about another question, namely why it is becoming less attractive to work. The Republic has taken citizens into service. It's not going to pay for anything. On the one hand, the Court of Auditors also reports that we have extremely generous minimum security models in Tyrol and Vorarlberg, where four-member families receive €2 300 in minimum security. Everyone, of course, is wondering: Who makes 2 300 € net for your union members? You can show me that. On the other hand, the pliers approach with an incredible progression. If someone earns gross €2 500, then he won't even stay half of every additional euro. And there is more to work, to take on leadership, to do more if nothing remains at the end of it!Unknown term type: "%s".? That's what this government has to answer. That is what the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has to do. After 28 years of government of the ÖVP we have this salad on the labour market.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e17810	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. There is no request for urgent procedure, so there is no need to vote. The introduction, ladies and gentlemen, is the next item on the agenda, in which only four speakers are on the list of speakers, with short speaking hours. So I'm asking you to stay in the hall. There will then be a nameable vote. [[18:18:24]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e17838	Mr Prince spoke on the agenda item 3. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e17861	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! When we discuss the 2013 Green Report, I should like to point out that agriculture is one of those sectors where the workshop, the work place under the open sky, which is therefore very dependent on the weather. Considering the year 2013, early June was the big flood. Many areas were under water at the time, causing crop damage. In July and August, on the other hand, there was a great deal of dryness, and there was a corresponding negative effect on income. This is, of course, reflected in the incomes for agriculture last year. I should therefore like to point out that: From this point of view, more risk insurance would be important and valuable for agriculture. I think it is very positive that Austrian hail insurance points to how the area consumption in Austria looks. If we seal more than 22 hectares a day because of residential, industrial, commercial and road construction, this is more than one farm per day, because the average agricultural area is 19 hectares in Austria. We must take these things into account when we discuss them. Within agriculture, we note that the mining industry as a whole has a lower income – an average of 12 percent compared to all other farms. That is why it is very important, Mr Federal Minister, that you and your employees have succeeded in concluding the negotiations on the rural development programme, because it would be fatal for rural agriculture if we had no environmental programme next year, no rural development. – Thank you so much! That is why those measures that are currently going to the mining area are also important. Let us think of the AZ, including the field of alpung and heating, or in the market order, for example, the pasture premiums. These are all important points. In this context, I have only one request – in the implementation of the programme Rural development is still a lot to discuss – as far as it is possible to do as simple and practical as possible in the bureaucracy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian agricultural sector has much smaller structures than our competitors, whether this is Germany, Holland or Denmark. For example, when discussing investment promotion, it is important that we also help our businesses that are willing to develop themselves accordingly. Therefore, investment promotion is really a valuable tool in further development. We have absolutely no large companies in international comparison. Just product prices – and this has already happened a few times today – are also a responsibility of trade. One can think about the sanctions against Russia, as one wants, but for example in summer, if theburg tomato farmers receive 40 cents on the Vienna market, by which Russia crisis cannot deliver the Dutch to Russia anymore and in Vienna the tomatoes are available by 20 cents, then one knows how it looks in agriculture. Therefore, EU support is also important and valuable. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, Mr Riemer, please listen to me. –: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riemer]] If you consume healthy Austrian food, with also a contribution to the safeguarding of agricultural agriculture in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e17936	The next item is the report by Mr Ing. Vogl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e17968	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Values Advisors! I would like to focus on the field of organic farming in the Green Report. 16.9 percent of all farms in Austria are organic holdings, 20 percent of the land is used for organic farming. Austria is Bioland number one in Europe. I think that's a reason to be proud, but also to look closely. If you look closely, you can see that there is no uniform trend. It is gratifying that the bioacker areas in Austria have tripled since 2000. The bio-wine garden area also rose by 4 percent to 4 414 hectares, which corresponds to about 10 percent of the total area. The organic area also increased by 3 percent in fruit production. Despite slight declines, 26 percent of the green land area in Austria is managed organically. That's 6 percent more than in 2000. However, it is thought that the area of the organically managed Almen declines significantly, by 12 percent in 2013. There is also a stagnation in organic farming and in organic farming. All of this is expressed in domestic demand, with significant potential for meat and sausage. On the other hand, exports have increased, and, of course, the question raised by Mr Willi was whether the current planned or detours are used to increase bioexports or to increase, as it were, industrially manufactured products. It is planned to increase bioareas by another 42 000 hectares by 2020. This would achieve a share of 22 percent. However, if producers are asked what they think is realistic and possible, then they will be 40 percent if – and I believe that is the important challenge – the political framework would fit. Since, I think, there is still much to improve, and there is also reason enough to continue to engage in the bio-agricultural sector. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] What is also important: The organic farming is strongly supported for very good reason, but then it must also be our claim that all in our society can afford these products as well. It is interesting why consumers buy these products. They buy these products, they decide because they say the quality of these products is better. And I can say one from my personal experience because I go to the farmer's market weekly: It's really true, the quality is just great. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e18014	Next speaker: Mr Eßl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e18036	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Alm mentioned earlier that this report could not be discussed in 4 minutes. - I'll give it to him. We as government groups do not even have half of the speaking time available to the opposition parties, and that is why it is even more difficult for us. I'm going to have to focus on a few words. This report, of course, provides a wide range of information, especially on the income development of farmers. There is a slight decrease of 6 percent in 2013 compared to 2012. There is a slight 3 per cent increase in the mining industry, and yet, when comparing the absolute figures, the dairy industry is not only the mining industry, but also the feed-growing farms. In particular, when comparisons with non-agricultural groups and incomes are made, it can be seen that it is well justified to send relevant signals in agriculture. I stay with the dairy industry, which is under pressure right now. If you are talking about the dairy sector, then of course you will also have to get to the prices for agricultural products. There is, of course, a subject for trade chains. For me, it is not central to whether a product is once sold more expensive or a product is once sold cheaper. It will be difficult – and this is the case at present – if the trade chains believe that all products would have to be offered at the cheapest and the cheapest price and the entire range would have to be delivered cheaply. We are in this situation now, therefore, the appeal to the trade chains: Living partnership, living regionality cannot work in such a way that you press the opposite at prices. Living regionality and living partnership means that pricing is such that producers can earn something, otherwise there will soon be no more. That's where the appeal really goes in the direction of being reasonable. The rural development programme: Mr. Federal Minister, I thank you for the fact that approval was already possible. We are also concerned that we are all here to finance, including the Freedom Party, which has requested a request to reduce the funding to half. If we also have money for agriculture in the future, this will benefit all citizens in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e18090	Mr Jannach has spoken a second time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e18112	Mr President. Federal Minister! First of all, an actual correction: We have not required that the support for farmers be reduced by half. A question to the representatives of the ÖVP: You've always conspired to do something now. This is where the Minister sits; the Minister announced in the newspapers half a year ago that he would be obliged to engage in trade with regard to regional agricultural products. – To date, nothing is happening. Not one thing has happened to support the farmers there. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Loacker.]] That was a policy of announcement. By the way, Mr. Minister, your appearance at 3 p.m. was very cabaret-like. You said you solved the Alpine problem. You turned as a patron and said you were paying the farmers the money for the sanctions. You have just forgotten to say that you have previously collected an x subject of this money over your authority, the AMA, from the farmers. This is money that is not given to the farmers by you, but that they have worked out and that is due to them to a much greater degree. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You didn't say anything about Russian sanctions. I asked you how much the farmers get from the European Union. You didn't say anything. They drive to Korea and market our pigmeat, which is ecologically insane, but no farmer receives a penny from the EU compensation payments. Now something about Mr Preiner's comments: They went out and said you put the lever on the promotions. I am here at the ÖVP when it comes to the reductions in funding. I declare once again our request: Agriculture is provided by two pots of support, one of which is direct payments which are independent of production, and the other is agricultural world payments. Direct payments are subject to a ceiling of €150 000 per operation. How many of the 120 000 companies in Austria are concerned? - Exactly 36! 36 farms would be affected by reductions, but it is not because they are charged with the labour and wage costs of these establishments. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Preiner]] Now, if someone gets €200 000 in direct payments and has three employees, he's not getting a reduction because he's getting this labor. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Preiner.]] The second is environmental payments, and this is about them. We have ceilings in all areas – in the case of farmers' social security, you know, we have ceilings. We have no ceilings on agricultural world payments, and you have not gone through them. You are going out – and this is really my appeal to the SPÖ delegates – talking about rich taxes, talking about wealth taxes and here, together with the ÖVP, you decide to provide millions of funding for individual farms from the agricultural budget. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Preiner]] Stiftung Fürst Liechtenstein – I mention this again –: € 1.3 million a year because the company does not even have its headquarters in Austria; a foundation, agricultural funds, €1.3 million. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Preiner]] Then there is a estate of Allacher and a estate Allacher GmbH with the same seat: six jobs – because the job argument always comes –; € 780 000 funding for six jobs. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Preiner]] No restriction, but go out and speak of distribution justice, that is a shame, and these companies to give these few farms so much money! [[Call the FPÖ: Unbelievable!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have 120 000 farms, 120 000 farms in Austria, 70 000 of these farms receive less than € 10 000. 70 000 farms receive less than € 10 000, and exactly 90 farms receive grants that exceed € 450 000 per year. We demand an effective ceiling, this applies to the introduction, and then you may go out again and speak of income, tax and distribution justice – and of the Reich tax. We call for a nameable vote, because we want to know who your Members, who always want to tax the rich, do not want to tax the rich. At the same time, these farmers, who basically represent the ÖVP – these are not SPÖ clientele farmers, I cannot imagine – are paying millions of subsidies to these companies over the years, which I think is simply a scandal. That's why: Do you agree that we are limiting these subsidies to a reasonable degree? Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e18201	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I do not recognise the rapporteur's wish for a final word. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to take note of this report III-101 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand by for this to be a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Jannach, colleagues on the fair distribution of agricultural subsidies and their limitations. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. I am therefore, of course, doing so. The ballots to be used are in the drawers of the Members' House and bear the name of the Members and the name "Yes" – these are the grey ballots – or "No" – which are the pink ones. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would ask those Members who vote in favour of Mr Jannach's motion for a resolution, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of the 'yes' vote, those who vote against, to cast 'No' vote. I now ask the writer, Mrs Musiol, to begin the call for name; Mr Buchmayr will replace them later. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e18283	The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make the number of votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. I am interrupting the session for a few minutes to this end.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e18326	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 154; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 64, No votes: 90. The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Jannach, ladies and gentlemen, on the fair distribution of agricultural support and its restrictions, is therefore rejected. [[Ah-Rufe near Greens and FPÖ.]] According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Alm, Angerer, Aslan, Bösch, Brosz, Brunner; Darmann, Deimek, Dietrich, Doppler, Ertlschweiger; Franz; Glavischig-Piesczek; Hable, Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hafenecker, Haider, Hauser, Höbart, Hübner; Jannach; Karlsböck, Kitzmüller, Köchl, Kunasek; Lausch, Lintl, Loacker, Lugar Robert; Maurer, mölzer, Moser, Mückstein, Mühlberghuber, Musiol; Neubauer Werner; Pirklhuber, Pock, Podgorschek; smoke Walter, Riemer, Rosary Barbara, Rosary Walter; Schellenbacher, Schellhorn, Scherak, Schimanek, Schmid Gerhard, Schmid Julian, Schrangl, Schwentner, Stefan, Steinbichler, Strache; themesl; Vavrik, Vetter; Refusal torpher, Willi, Winter, Worm Peter; Singer, Zinggl. Members voted with ‘No’: Amon, Antoni, Aubauer, Auer, Bacher Walter, Bayr, Becher Ruth, Berlakovich, Buchmayr, Bures; Cap; Darabos, Diesner Wais, perforation; Ecker, Ehmann, El Habbassi, Eßl, Fichtinger Klaus Uwe, Fekter, Fichtinger Angela; Gahr, Gerstl, Gessl-Ranftl, Greiner Karin, Grillitsch, Groiß, Grossmann, Gusenbauer-Jäger; Hakel Elisabeth, Hammer Michael, Hanger Andreas, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Himmelbauer, Hofinger Manfred, Höfinger Johann, Holzinger; Jank, Jarolim; Kirchgatterer, Knes, Königsberger-Ludwig, Kopf, Krainer Kai Jan, Krist, Kucharovich, Kucher, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Lopatka, Lueger Angela; Matznetter, Mayer, Muttonen; Obernosterer, kilnauer, ottenschlager; Pendl, Pfurtscheller, Plessl, Preiner, Prince; Rasinger, Rauch Johannes; Schieder, Schittenhelm, Schmuckenschlager, Schönegger, Schopf, Schultes, Sieber Norbert, Singer Johann, Spindelberger, Strasser; Tumandl, daughters, door; sub-railers; Vogl; Weninger, Wimmer, tiny, Wittmann, Wevinger, Worm Gisela; Yılmaz.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e18521	We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Steinbichler, colleagues on the quality seal law. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Jannach, colleagues, on the reduction of the unjustified long-term retention of documents under the ÖPUL 2015 programme for farmers. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[18:44:06]] 4. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on Amendment No 699/A(E) by Mrs Ulrike Weigerstorfer, Members and colleagues on the establishment of a nuclear waste storage site near the border (355d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e18580	We're on the 4th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Höfinger is the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e18607	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! What is the essence of this request from the Stronach team, to which we will also give our approval? The Czech Republic is planning to build nuclear waste storage, which is to become a deep store. Seven locations are currently being examined, six of them at a maximum distance of 80 kilometres from the Austrian border. We, thank God, have been in agreement politically in Austria for a long time with regard to nuclear power and the use and energy generation of it, namely to strictly reject all the issues raised in this context, including this final warehouse, which is to be built near Austria, in order to protect the Austrian population from danger. Even if the implementation only starts with the site search and it will take decades to 2065, where the start-up is to take place, it is already necessary to act now, because now the sites are being probed. The construction is to take place by 2045 and it will be in operation with all the procedures starting in 2065. That means we have to stick to it now. That is why we also agree with this proposal because it supports the efforts and actions of the Austrian Federal Government to date. ==References== This year, a presentation to the Council of Ministers decided that the Federal Government would try to prevent this location at all levels, and also the Czech Republic and the government would like to convince that it is considering other locations. This procedure has also been introduced to take all legal action. I would like to thank our Environment Minister Rupprechter very much, but also our Foreign Minister, who has already held direct talks with their mirror ministers. This has led to our having received the commitment to be integrated into all processes to be continuously informed. But this is, as we have said, too little, even if a cross-border EIA test is to be carried out. It's our intention to stop this location anyhow. That is why we want to remain on line with this House and support the Federal Government in its work. We therefore welcome this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e18652	The next item is the report by Mr Wenninger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e18674	Mr President. Minister! High house! Austria will, with all political and legal means, prevent nuclear waste from being built in our immediate border proximity. The It is a political consensus which we have here in the House, but also in the Federal Government and in all the environmental organizations. I am very happy to recall the work programme of the Austrian Federal Government, where it is decreed that all legal and political means of safeguarding the Austrian security interests are observed against border-by-border nuclear power stations and deposits. [[Abg. Brosz: An-ti-Doping-Law also in the work programme!]] Mr Brosz, if you do not trust the work programme, you may trust the six-party proposal that we have just decided unanimously recently, in which political intervention against the final storage sites is equally part of our joint decision and thus of the parliamentary anti-CFC consensus. But I am leaving the rest away now, because I believe that everyone in Austria and above all politics, who started with the Chancellor up to the ministers, has tried to ensure the political and legal conditions in order to prevent the planned final deposits. At 4 p.m. I received a very interesting email from Mrs. Klubobfrau Glavischnig, for which I thank very much. Somehow the timeline did not fit, the previous item on the agenda has come in between. Mrs Klubobfrau Glavish writes: Dear Hannes! - Thank you very much for the kind speech. – The Greens will make a request today and do everything they can to prevent the construction of a final site in the Czech Republic, and they will call upon the chancellor, and at all, the Greens have everything under control. Signed: Best regards, Eva and Rudi. I don't know who the Rudi is now. Dear Eva, thank you for this information! [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: they wanted to join us!]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Brosz and Mr Neubauer.]] I just want to say: In the sense of consensus, which we have on this political issue and which is of such great environmental importance, I do not think it is particularly fair when the colleague, Mr Tronach, makes a request from the Stronach team, we are discussing it unanimously in the Committee on the Environment, and then the Greens come to it at some point on the day of the meeting, we have to make a request so that we can also participate in it. – We are all there, we decide unanimously! Good-bye to Eva, and good-bye to the Rudi.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e18736	Next word: Mr Neubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e18757	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! I would like to thank my previous speaker very much for his whimsical presentation of the Greens' request, which we have also received. We see this in a similar way, because we also believe that this important debate could be conducted in detail in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and the Federal Minister has also informed us in a very fair way about the current state of play, so that we do not actually consider this request made by the Greens here to be necessary. Nevertheless: Mrs Weggenstorfer, we will, of course, be happy to support this request, which we have already announced in committee. This request, and because of this information, which you rightly request from the Federal Government, and also a report to Parliament, raises a number of questions which have arisen in recent weeks. In principle, we have the basic consensus on nuclear power in this House, as I mean. We have discussed the question of Zwentendorf several times here also in all facets. A question has now been raised which, in the context of border-near nuclear waste storage, we consider to be very likely to discuss, namely: To what extent does Austria itself adhere to rules for nuclear waste storage? That is a question that we too have to be interested in. This has become apparent on the basis of the question of Seibersdorf. Here, the problem has arisen that a nuclear waste warehouse is clearly operated by the Republic of Austria, while we are facing all border-by-border nuclear waste storage camps abroad. But how do we manage it ourselves with our own nuclear waste storage facility in Seibersdorf? Mr Federal Minister, I would really ask you to ensure transparency here. To date, we do not know how much nuclear waste is stored here in Seibersdorf, how high the radioactive proportion of this nuclear waste is, how large the amount is, how many countries are storing the nuclear waste here in Austria and how high the income that results from it. I believe that the Austrians are very interested in the fact that transparency is in fact being exercised on this issue, because we become unbelievable if we are here as a parliament against nuclear waste storage sites of a kind close to the border, but even in Austria, we are carrying out a nuclear waste storage, which is perhaps in the way quite similar to a nuclear waste storage site close to the border. Mr Minister, I would ask you to clarify this question.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e18802	Next word: Mrs Mag. Brunner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e18824	Mr President. Mr. Environment Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Yes, this is a request from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. As President of the Committee on the Environment, I am also pleased that one of the many agenda items that we had on the agenda in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has actually been put to the plenary session. All the others, unfortunately, have been postponed. To colleague Wenninger: So I appreciate the initiative of the colleague, Rejectorstorfer. You know, that's why we agreed. But it is other parties, I think, that I do not think we should also ask for steps that go beyond a common request, as our positions are now more far-reaching. Under the Espoo Convention, the Czech Government is already obliged to provide information to neighbouring countries. The aim of this proposal, which we decide here, is to ensure that the Czech Republic complies with an international convention. What we want in addition to this is that the Austrian Federal Government uses all legal and political possibilities as early as possible and even before an EIA procedure. Unfortunately, we have already experienced many times that there are great confessions here, including requests, joint motions here in the House, and then nothing exactly happened. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I don't know what your criticism is. If you have a criticism of content, you will vote against our request, but then you should also argue. I'm curious how you're gonna do this. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenninger.]] However, as chairman of the Committee on the Environment, it is also important for me to address the nuclear agendas and the anti-atomic agendas. On our further request, my colleague Matthias Köchlnoch will go in. However, it is also important for me to point out that we have also dealt with very, very many other items on the agenda in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which unfortunately did not come into the plenary session. I think we have also upgraded the Environment Committee in particular by the fact that there are very, very interesting and exciting hearings on different topics. Last time we had a hearing on the climate change report, which has already been included in the debate today, where experts have explained to the Committee very, very clearly and clearly that Austria will be above average affected by climate change, which is the current situation and also how urgent the need for action is – how urgent the need for decision-makers and decision-makers is, that is, from us here in the house. I think the experts have also made very, very clear what to do there. There have been specified areas such as spatial planning, such as mobility. And the whole thing, I think, has contributed to an appreciation of the discussion. Only: When the hearing was over, the corresponding agenda items were all postponed. The most important area of climate protection for me, which is also very closely linked to nuclear policy – Mr Glavischnig has today addressed what the weak objectives of renewables mean, namely an expansion of nuclear power – and precisely these agenda items have not been taken seriously and postponed. I find this to be irrational, because not only in terms of climate policy objectives, but also in terms of climate financing – what I have already mentioned in the morning – has Parliament missed the opportunity to make a decision that Austria is making a commitment to the Green Climate Fund, which will be essential for the state of life or for the success of the climate conference in Lima. And that is the most important point when it comes to deciding whether or not a global climate agreement will succeed. Today, the last option would have been to take a decision before Lima, which we would have needed to do in the Committee on the Environment. I am extremely sad, and I find it extremely irrational that the Austrian Parliament has missed this opportunity and is thus sending it as a signal to the world: We don't care if there's a global climate agreement or not! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr. Environment Minister, you are the negotiator for the Austrian delegation in Lima. It is your job to have a mandate from the Federal Government to be able to make a commitment there. Actually, you have to do it in Berlin today and tomorrow, at the latest in Lima, you have to do it. It is the responsibility of the entire Federal Government, but it is also your responsibility as negotiator to go there with a corresponding negotiating mandate! By the way, I believe Austria needs a strong, committed Ministry of the Environment, Energy and Climate Change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e18906	Mrs Weggenstorfer has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e18927	Mr President. Minister! So I would also like to thank myself very much, and I also think, a little bit in the sense of the people, that we have really unanimously found a consensus here on nuclear waste, that we are really proactively entering information work here and looking for the flow of information with the Czech Republic. Even if the Czech Foreign Minister now promises openness and guarantees that the Czech Republic will grant Austria access to all available information, I do not fully trust it. To act proactively here is certainly the best solution in the sense of the precautionary principle. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I would nevertheless like to focus on the seriousness of this subject. For more than 50 years, nuclear power plants have been operating, and no one knows where this waste can stay. This alone shows that a further production of nuclear waste is not responsible. The use nuclear energy only saves a generation 3 percent of energy needs, but these plants leave not only for our children, but for many, many generations of deadly radiation waste, and that for hundreds of thousands of years. That is why I think it is very, very important that we become active here. Even though it is still so good to shield the nuclear waste from all life for a long time in a repository is an almost insoluble task. We all know: It is possible that radioactive substances reach the surface by water veins. It is possible that earthquakes release this radioactive substance. That is why a clear no. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The reason why we now have to act in Austria in accordance with the precautionary principle is as follows: Our neighbouring country has long been looking for suitable sites for a nuclear waste dump. Time and again, areas in close proximity to Austria were in conversation. I would like to mention a few facts: There are a total of seven nominated locations around Austria – we are really talking about a few kilometres away from the border – and by 2025 it is expected to be clear at which location the final warehouse is actually to be built. An environmental impact assessment is to be carried out in 2045, and the deposit of the barrels with this highly active nuclear waste is expected to begin in 2060. - So you see, the topic is brilliant. It's very, very close. We have a few kilometres away here, but there are some nuclear power plants and also nuclear waste dumps that are under discussion. Mr Minister, I am very reluctant to correct you, but I can still remember that in the last Committee on the Environment, Public Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection we talked about an EU-wide nuclear waste camp, and you told us that this was not compatible with EU law, because each Member State had to dispose of its nuclear waste itself. Unfortunately, this is not quite correct, as the EU Council of Ministers approved in 2011 the Directive on the disposal of spent fuel and other radioactive waste. This allows the export of nuclear waste to other Member States. In addition, two or more Member States may agree to use a facility in one of the States jointly. – It is therefore all the more important that we have tabled this request. The conclusion of the whole story is, in the sense of the citizens: We Austrians do not want nuclear power, and we also do not want the waste of nuclear power plants in the immediate vicinity of Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e18982	The next speaker is Mr Pock. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e19003	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! I would like to address the Greens' motion for a resolution before I come to the actual item on the agenda. We will not support this request. Part of the explanatory statement has already been made by Mr Wenninger of the Social Democrats. However, I would also like to address this point in terms of content. Among other things, they call for the National Council to be reported in connection with the involvement of the Federal Government, which measures or infringements have occurred in the area of EU law, rights in the context of cross-border procedural participation, the Aarhus Convention and, and, here. However, we now know that the cross-border procedural participation in the Czech Republic will already be implemented by the beginning of 2015. In my opinion, therefore, the request is not very targeted and also contains information that we already have and that we do not need to be informed about. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: international complaints! Do you know yourself? Do you know how complex the matter is? There are several opinions on this!]] On the agenda item on the disposal of nuclear waste in Europe, we also want to address a number of points. It has already been pointed out that this is a six-party request – that is, we are taking NEOS with it, of course – and colleague Refuserstorfer has already talked about the problem of the final storage. We have looked at this in detail and see a point where we also ask the Austrian Federal Government for more commitment. The question is: Where are these end-to-end sites built? We currently have plans in the Czech Republic, Finland, Sweden, France and, of course, a number of intermediate camps, which are worth looking at now. On the one hand, there is the well-known Gorleben, on the other hand, the Ace, where water has now entered, where the intermediate camp has to be dissolved, which will last many, many years, with the German government stating yesterday that there is unexpectedly 13 000 tonnes more nuclear waste than expected. This means that we actually have a problem with the capacity of the intermediate warehouses, and we have no concrete idea where the final warehouses are supposed to be. Within the European Union, 14 national states are obliged either to make these outstocks available themselves or to organise them in cooperation with other national states. For us the question must be: How to organize these 14 National states this endowment? We have tabled a self-employed proposal in this regard. In other words, we will then discuss this in peace in the Committee on the Environment. I just want to announce: We will call on the Federal Government to seek information at European level and then come to the Environment Committee with this information, and we will then discuss further steps together, as is usual on this subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e19040	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Rupprechter. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e19061	Mr President. High house! Very soon: In the context of the current report and the present motion for a resolution, I should like to express my sincere thanks to Mrs Weigerstorfer for the initiative and also for the very constructive and positive debate that we have held on this subject in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which has been in place for years in the interests of the anti-atomic consensus, as it has been in this House and in Austria. I took this as a very positive experience and also as a very positive contribution from the parliamentary debate in Austria. I can also assure you that we have been working for more than ten years in the spirit of this motion for a resolution, namely to request ongoing information from the Czech Government and to carry out this exchange of experience and information very intensively, through ministerial meetings and also through: Expert meetings, e.g. within the framework of the Nuclear Information Agreement, and reports of the embassies et cetera. It is, of course, right and important to note that nuclear waste, after the latest state of science and technology, is to be treated, stored and disposed of. Mr Neubauer, you are of course quite right, in Seibersdorf radioactive waste is attacked. But you will admit to me that there is a quantitative and qualitative difference between radioactive waste from a research laboratory, medical waste and waste from a nuclear power plant, alone from the quantity. I would, of course, like to send you the detailed information on Seibersdorf accordingly. The obligation to process and also to dispose of radioactive waste also applies, of course, to a country which does not operate nuclear energy or which rises from nuclear energy. Mrs Weigerstorfer correctly referred to the relevant EU directive. I can assure you that for Austria, for the Austrian Federal Government and for the High House, as I understand it, a border location in the Czech Republic and elsewhere is not in question. We have finally addressed this position – both the Federal Chancellor and the Czech Prime Minister on the margins of the European Council and Foreign Minister Sebastian Kurz at a meeting with his Czech colleague in Mikulov and in the presence of two head of state from Upper Austria and Lower Austria and their counterparts from Moravia and Bohemia, and at a meeting with my Czech colleague, Environment Minister Brabec, on 28 May. October on the verge of the Environment Council of Ministers – and with emphasis on the fact that we do not have such a border location in question. We also took part in the Federal Government on 4 May. The decision was taken in November to exploit all legal possibilities at European level against such an arbitrary decision-making of the Czech side. I can assure you that the Austrian Federal Government will do everything it can to ensure that it does not come to a border-near final camp. And, Mrs Brunner, I can assure you that there is an independent, strong environment in Austria, namely the Ministry of a Life-worthy Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e19119	Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party Big. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e19141	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. I also thank Mrs Weigerstorfer. It has raised this issue with us in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. It is nice that we can also report on this issue today. As a representative of the border region with the Czech Republic, it is, of course, a particular concern to me to comment on this, because the emergence of Austrian nuclear policy must be considered carefully. There's hardly anyone in Austria who likes nuclear power, there's no one who likes nuclear power, but you have to look at it: How did the nuclear discussion come about in Austria? To do this, look back: There was a referendum in 1978. Far-sighted politicians then said we don't want the nuclear current, and it's in In the meantime, all parties and, I believe, the majority of the population are associated with this attitude. I would like to thank the Minister for having in him a strong speech tube for the anti-atom movement and especially for such a storage in the border area. I would also like to thank the state governments in Lower Austria and Upper Austria, where there are resolutions which are exactly the same horn, so that it becomes clear that the state governments are also in this position and that they too are using their networks to get as much information as possible on this subject as quickly as possible and to be involved accordingly. I would also like to thank the many communities that have adopted resolutions, because it is also important for the communities to maintain a viable environment, and I am particularly grateful to Mayor Hartmann of Unterstinkenbrunn, who has today been able to hand over the resolution to you, Mr Minister. And I still have a special honor: I can also give you 700 signatures that have been collected exactly on this subject, so that there is no final camp near the border to the wine district and forest district, to be faithful hands, also in the sense of supporting your work. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e19186	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Dr. Feichtinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e19207	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Last weekend I had a conversation with an older gentleman at an event, and he told me that he – remembering it very carefully – worked on a rain site one day after the disaster in Chernobyl in Olmütz. 20 years later, he was sick of cancer, from which he happily recovered after years of suffering. Although it is now a direct causal link between this disease and the super-GAU at that time not really detectable, this personal fate brings us directly to the point. Since Chernobyl and most recently since Fukushima, we are hopefully aware that the use of nuclear energy as a technology cannot and must not be a technology for the future due to the invincibility of the risks associated with it. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Refusal torphere.]] [[Abg. Darmann: The European Union is not!]] The current request of the colleague, Mr Refuserstorfer, sheds light on another fundamental and previously unresolved problem that has arisen from the use of nuclear energy for energy generation: highly radioactive nuclear waste, consisting of spent fuel elements, waste from reprocessing plants, uranium enrichment plants and decommissioned reactors. We still do not know how to really treat and store this nuclear waste. Those countries, which will continue to rely on the use of nuclear energy to my regret and will continue to make clear in the future, are therefore all facing the task of storing the waste of their nuclear power plants and other plants as safe and environmentally friendly as possible, and as we all know, hundreds of generations will still bear this burden and live with the risks arising from it. It is therefore necessary for States which have to deal with their radioactive waste and their final storage to demand in advance to show the possible highest standards of implementation in terms of storage and associated risks. The current proposal aims precisely at this, and therefore, as we have already supported it in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, we will support it here in plenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e19250	I call Mr Köchl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e19271	Dear ladies! Dear gentlemen! The core of the question is actually: Is it allowed to shift the risk elsewhere? – Austria has clearly positioned itself against nuclear power. We are also very happy and grateful for this consensus here and today. We know who you owe this to, among other things, already 20, 30 years ago: the green party. So who originally owes the nuclear outflow consensus in Austria and which party is the first to position itself against nuclear power is known. [[Abg. Fekter: There the greens have not yet been!]] [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: You're so excited, Mrs. Fekter, all day today!]] [[New calls from the Abg. Fekter.]] So, the question is: Could it be that the Czech Republic is making profits with nuclear power production and is pushing away the risk towards Austria? . We clearly say no, completely determined and determined no. The word “disposal ” suggests that there would be an exemption from these concerns. But that is not in connection with nuclear waste! And also terms like “end camp ” mean something that is really not possible. There are, in fact, temporary solutions in connection with nuclear waste for a few hundred years, for a few thousand years, but definitely there is not “the solution” for five hundred thousand years. We don't need to look around and see when the Cheops pyramid was built. That was 2580 BC. So 4600 years ago, the pyramids were built – but in the context of nuclear waste it is about periods of 500,000 years and longer. But that also means that there must not be the impression that nuclear power production would be something normal: Only the uranium is mined, then electricity is made, and after that it is stored somewhere. In fact, this is a permanent state of crisis, a permanent crisis situation for the next hundreds of thousands of years in terms of nuclear waste, and in reality there is no solution. We can only break our heads, what we do temporarily, but there is no permanent long-term solution. In this context, I would also like to mention that, when it comes to these seven specific locations in the Czech Republic, it is very strange when the former uranium mining site at Kravi Hora is now under debate. There has been a clear discussion about the location, because there are many people there who are still drawing pension payments from the work in uranium mining at that time and there the mood in the population is simply better for a final camp. But it can't be that one makes warehouse locations dependent on the mood, but from our point of view – and here I am in agreement with the green Prime Minister of Baden-Württemberg Winfried Kretschmann – one should ask much more naturally geologists and geologists, physicists, chemists, chemists and also seismologists and not politicians. That would, I think, be essential. In order to safeguard Austrian interests, we have also prepared an application which I will now read: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e19367	The application is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e19463	Next speaker: Mr. Deputy Professor of the University Dr. Däderle. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e19484	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Before I come to the real issue, Mr Köchl, I must make two historical corrections. Just as Rome was not built in one day, the pyramids were not built in one year. So mentioning a year here is somewhat unhistorical. [[Abg. Neubauer: Exactly!]] The second correction: The vote on Zwentendorf took place before the existence of a green party, so it could not be the green party that prevented Zwentendorf. It was a majority of the Austrians. I was allowed to vote in those days too. I have been following the discussion on nuclear power plants since the 1960s and have been grateful for the opportunity to vote and vote against the start-up of Zwentendorf. Since I followed this debate, I have always seen the problem of final storage as one of the biggest and unresolved problems. Now we are gradually catching up with it, because the life of power plants is also known to be limited. You always knew that, and you always knew it was going to be quite difficult to find and operate such warehouses safely over the long time that has been addressed several times. It is all the more important and all the more worthy that both the Federal Government and our Minister for the Environment and now we as the High House can take a firm and decisive stand against the intention of building a final warehouse near Austria, which has long been opposed to the use of nuclear energy. This joint action is also a gratifying sign. And I think it is exemplary that the request of an opposition party for a joint request from a committee could be made here. This should be an example of trying to do so in other cases and making such applications for joint applications in advance. I am also pleased to have a broad agreement on this request. It cannot be that a country such as Austria, which has behaved so clearly and so decisively for decades, allows such a risky camp nearby. And that is why I appeal to everyone, both to the government and to us, to remain active here accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e19521	Next speaker: Mr Buchmayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e19542	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! I'll be able to join you right here and get out of here. The Zwentendorf vote was then the first vote I was allowed to vote on from my age. I also voted against Zwentendorf. So, against nuclear policy, the Greens have certainly not only worked. For nuclear waste disposal: Here I would like to say that it is already the idea of the wrong one, and yet the concept of a number of countries is more used in Europe to prefer an end-to-end storage. It is not only the Czech Republic that is looking for end-to-end warehouses, but also Germany, Switzerland and other countries. And from the course of the process one has set a certain longer-term schedule, which cannot be overturned again. In the next ten to fifteen years, decisions will be taken once. The start-up is planned for 2050, 2050, 2060. In Germany it is still being discussed most honestly, adding 300 000 cubic metres of nuclear waste to the stocks of 300,000 cubic metres. The mine Asse with the closed barrels was mentioned. High radioactive elements such as uranium, plutonium or iodine have quite different half-lifes, namely up to 4,5 billion years. That is why it is extremely worrying to talk about end-to-end sites that this term is imaginable misleading. There is not a place around the world that is intended for more than 10,000 years, perhaps thought, but the evidence has never, of course, been provided, the counter evidence of the frequent. I just remember that 30,000 years ago the Neanderthals died out. Or another example: How do you explain to someone in 10,000 years that radioactive waste is stored there? In 10,000 years, very, very much changes. And here we are thinking about periods of time that are irresponsible. It is therefore highly necessary to protest and oppose the so-called end-of-places and to support the consistent anti-CFC policy of Chancellor Werner Faymannin of our government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e19587	I call Mr Plessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e19609	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, we have already agreed to the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Weber, and I am pleased that we have a broad consensus by all the political groups in the House today, a clear position against nuclear power, a clear position against the establishment of nuclear power plants and against nuclear power imports. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is also said that we reject the European Union's approval of state aid and subsidies for the planned new nuclear power plant in the UK, a completely false signal. Many incidents in nuclear power plants confirm our doubts. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to mention an incident that took place a few days ago, on 3 March. In 1985, Dukovany was put into operation in the Czech Republic and 120 kilometres of airline from Vienna. I quote here from the APA message of 5. November: “Czech AKW Dukovany shuts down two blocks unplanned. Due to density on lines of the technical cooling water.’ The blocks 3 and 4 were temporarily shut down. The incident took place two days before, as said, on 3.11. The most interesting of these are the safety measures and the regulations that allow the nuclear power plant to continue operating for up to three days in the event of such an incident, in the event of a reactor incident where the pipeline of cooling is leaked. The repairs failed in these three days, so the reactor had to be shut down. Here we also see how important it is to take action against nuclear power plants. However, as a Lower Austrian MP, I am also clearly opposed to nuclear waste disposal camps along the Czech border.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e19658	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Mulder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e19679	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The question of final storage remains unanswered. These problems are cross-border, and Austria cannot decouple itself from the development in this area despite rigid anti-atomic control. Austria does not adopt a passive attitude on this issue. And there is also a lot to show at country level. ==References====External links== Vienna's nuclear summit. This is a cross-party event in which NGOs also participate and in which, in particular, the subsidisation of nuclear power is addressed in the European context. The focus of the engagement of the Vienna country is on border-nearer cars in the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, as well as the Isar AKW. Vienna has been the hub of European anti-atomic work for years and is well-connected. In 2011, environmental councillor Ulli Sima set up the city network of European cities, where 17 partner cities and international organisations are networked in the anti-atomic field. This is of course important for awareness work and for information work nationally and internationally. And up-to-date: Yesterday, Mrs. Maria Urban, an anti-atomic fighter of the first hour, was awarded the Golden Merit Sign by the State of Vienna for her commitment in this field. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The position at the federal level is clear with the joint action plan. It is all the more important that, in the case of specific occasions, as clearly stated in the motion for a resolution, there is a close exchange of information at the level of state governments in order to avoid damage and threats in cross-border bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e19728	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the resolution on the establishment of a nuclear waste storage site close to the border attached to the Committee's report 355 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 52.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek, colleagues on legal action against Czech nuclear power station. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. [[19:31:34]] 5. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the report of the Court of Auditors, Series Bund 2014/7 (III-68/357 D.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e19786	We're on the 5th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Mayer has spoken. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e19813	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start by thanking the opposition parties very briefly for their up-to-date reasons. Today we have the Subcommittee of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the subject of Burgtheater constitu and found a good compromise, as I mean. We have given the Ministry sufficient time to present a comprehensive survey report, including the current results of the Court of Auditors' examination and a mandated opinion, and at the same time we will start discussions on the material already available in the Court of Auditors' report in December. This is a good and reasonable compromise that we have found. We can now move forward quickly, do not waste time and we hope that this issue will be dealt with well. I would like to make a few comments on today's reports on care and care reform and, in order to highlight the greater importance, to focus first and foremost on the fact that there are currently 454,000 care providers in Austria, the cost of this is around €2.5 billion. The care allowance is now pure federal competence. In addition, the Federal Government has set up a care fund that can spend more than €1.3 billion on the establishment of social services in the countries between 2011 and 2016. For the 24-hour care at home, which was already used by more than 14,000 people in 2012, the state spent an additional € 89 million. The main problem is clearly identified in the Court of Auditors report, which compared the two states of Tyrol and Carinthia. Name: In order to meet the required quality and compatibility criteria, a clearer level of competence is needed. Two points seem crucial: Firstly, tariffs do not always correspond to actual performance, since there are very large differences in the federal states. Secondly, the benefits often do not reach those concerned. I believe that the sustainability of public finances is also required here. Once again, as in many other areas, it is a question of competence. There are, as mentioned above, very different situations in old-age care in the federal states. I have also looked at the example of Burs, which the President of the Court of Auditors has drawn out as particularly commendable. It shows what would really be possible if the resources were to be optimally linked and linked. It shows a wide range between optimal care and those who are still far behind. I know that Minister Hundstorfer is trying to meet the Court of Auditors' recommendations to the greatest possible extent. How did he say so strikingly in the committee? – You can't change 60 years of history in two years. Historically, it seems to me to be the important forthcoming financial compensatory negotiations, where there is the possibility of actually redesigning things. We would need it because it also applies here: We want to know where the money is going and whether it is as efficient as possible, in this case with patients or with older people. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e19877	I call Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e19898	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In Austria, there are currently three major railway infrastructure projects, the Semmering Tunnel, the Koralm Tunnel and the Brenner Base Tunnel. And the Court of Auditors has three sub-areas of the coral tunnel project. verified, the Hengsberg Tunnel, the Paierdorf Exploratory Tunnel and the Mitterpichling Exploratory Tunnel. The aim of this event review was to examine the planning and construction measures of the subprojects of the ÖBB infrastructure, as well as the development of the costs and dates, the financing of the buildings, the procurement and the construction implementation. The 130-km-long rail project, the Koralm Tunnel, is to be completed after several time shifts – first the completion of 2018 was planned – by 2023. The Court of Auditors’ criticisms were that there were shortcomings in the provision of services, that additional costs and billing agreements were not approved or only partially approved in the construction process. There have been changes in the scope of performance, and the Court of Auditors has also noted the need for improvement and optimization. The President of the Court of Auditors Moser noted in the Committee that such large-scale projects are in principle concerned with complying with the timetables, with all the shifts and delays in construction leading to additional costs and with the subsequent start of revenue. Overall, the Court of Auditors considered this project, which is divided into six sub-areas, to be useful and assessed positively – in recent years it has been learned from these railway projects – that there is a stable cost development. It was also recommended by the Court of Auditors that everything should be done to facilitate the co-financing of the Koralmtunnel project by means of the EU's trans-European networks, and in the Committee, Federal Minister Stöger stressed that there is currently intensive efforts to co-finance the EU. In addition, cross-financing through the Road Costs Directive is also under legal review. The Committee noted that the 20 recommendations of the Court of Auditors were implemented as well as possible and so far as possible. After completion of the large-scale Koralm project, the journey time from Vienna to Villach, including Semmering and Koralm Tunnel, will be reduced from currently four hours of 16 minutes to three hours. The Koralm Tunnel is a future project for the expansion of the railway in Austria, after a relatively large amount of money has been invested in the west railway in recent years. It brings us new opportunities in trans-European transport policy, it brings new opportunities to shift traffic from road to rail, and in total these transport infrastructure projects contribute to improving the comfort and quality of transport services. And it should also be in the future that the Court of Auditors, particularly as far as the dimension of these projects is concerned, should accompany and examine them and therefore also pay attention to the costs and compliance with the basic principles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e19949	Next speaker: Mr Lausch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e19971	Estimated President! High house! First of all, I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council and his team for this good work. These reports show how important the Court of Auditors is to us and how well the material and the surveys made available to the National Council are. Thank you very much! – I ask for this thanks to your team. On the Justice Service Agency: There, too, the Court of Auditors has made four very important points. The main point is that staff costs are not calculated as personnel expenditure, but as material expenditure. Of course, what personnel purchases have to do with a Federal Ministry of Education is actually inexplicable. From our point of view, this would have to be stopped immediately. The Court of Auditors has also correctly recognised that the administrative costs of the judicial service agency increased from € 0.57 million in 2009 to €1.59 million in the course of three years, i.e. they have tripled within three years. This is unexplainable in times like this. The population does not know where to take the money, and has to fight with tax burdens – and at this judicial service agency, the money is thrown out with both hands. This is not little if the costs are tripled in three years. Another point: The managing director originally earned € 67 200 in the year – that was not documented either – which then increased to € 86 400. This means that, within three years, an increase of €20 000 was made, which was not documented. You couldn't justify that either. It is not a joke to raise a wage of €20 000 in this Republic in times like this. The Court of Auditors has recognized this correctly – it has not been documented, has not been justified. And from our point of view, that is something to be rejected! The third defect: A software was purchased. This is available by €600 000 by 2017. Also an insanity, because there are corrective software systems that have not been used there, but one has bought a sinteur's own system. The fourth point: It doesn't have to be all that is rented out in the 1st century. District where most expensive places are rented. The Court of Auditors has correctly recognized that 900 square meters have been rented around €15 600. There you will find a square meter price of about 17,33 €. Of course, no one can explain why a judicial service agency is essential in the first place. District must be located, it would be equally enough for any other district and there it would, of course, be cheaper. That's where you could save. It is phenomenal, citizens are expected to save, to save, to save, to save, to save, and, as the Court of Auditors reports show, the Federal Government is actually living up to something else. Some of the money you don't have is thrown out with both hands. It's incomprehensible. It can't be like that! From our point of view, that must be rejected. The Court of Auditors has done a good job in this regard, and it has shown that. The Federal Minister has tried to explain to the committee why this must be so, but from our point of view this could not really be explained. That's just inexplicable, and I hope something happens. The need to change this is urgently needed in order to ensure that the next Court of Auditors report on the judicial service agency – if the Court of Auditors review what I am assuming – looks different, and that there is a certain degree of savings, which is absolutely necessary in times like this. Today, if you are superimposing the people with taxes and burdens, it cannot be that you are setting up such an agency and yet this agency does not cover everything. Other purchases need to be made by the Ministry. So actually a chaos agency, you have to say. You just can't work like that. I would like to thank the Court of Auditors once again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e20046	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e20067	Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to start with the Justice Service Agency; the reports always contain a wide range of topics. We have in Parliament – “we” is wrong, because the Greens have not voted in favour – so: In Parliament, the judicial service agency was set up by law. I have already said that we voted against it at the time. Our concerns were that successive tasks of the judicial system, namely the provision of personnel, will be outsourced to this judicial service agency. I would like to make it clear that the judicial service agency is doing important tasks where it is competent. These are criminal tasks, where doctors, therapists, social workers are provided by the judicial service agency. In the field of family judicial assistance, personnel shall be provided, which shall be used in connection with care conflicts. These are important tasks, and this work and these employees are important. That's what I want to do. But the organisational framework of the judicial service agency is questionable. What did you do? – The judicial service agency has been set up by law and has gradually employed public-funded staff there, but it does not appear practically in the sense of transparency, because this staff employed there does not appear in the establishment plan. And that's, I think, already a strange process. It is said, as it were, that there is a stopover, that it is celebrated as a savings will of the Federal Government, but on the other hand, staff are then employed over supplanted and outsourced agencies such as the judicial service agency. I say it again: The tasks that are being done there are important, and we probably need the staff. Without this staff, certain standards would not at all be maintained in prisons. But that – that is, I think, the crucial question, and we have discussed it in detail in the Court of Auditors’ Committee – what is necessary is transparency. Organisational plans should reflect what is actually present in public employment. And if the trick of the judicial service agency is virtually transformed into personnel costs at physical costs, there is no transparency and budgetary truth. That's inconvenient. Therefore, a clear confession: If we need this staff, it should also be shown that it is employed, then it should be obvious. Or: If you believe that this is not to be done with job plans, then you have to discuss in general how the structure in the field of public servants should be designed. What I don't think of is parallel structures, which then result in – first – there being no transparency, that then – second – some administrative costs and overhead costs can be paid twice and that – thirdly, the party's book economy is flourishing in these structures, including in judicial services. Agency. For example, if, as you can see, the former head of the cabinet of Minister Karl – which is precisely the point – has been appointed as the managing director of this judicial service agency, this already smells very strongly according to party policy. In this sense, I think – and this has also been discussed in the Court of Auditors – it must be a fundamental discussion as to whether such models are useful at all and how the future structure in the public service is designed. In any case, parallel structures do not do anything. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e20132	Mrs Schenk. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e20153	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I also dedicate myself to the judicial service agency, like my two previous speakers. The Justice Agency was decided here in the House in July 2008 with the exception of the Greens of all. It was intended to provide staff for the execution of the sentence in order to eliminate bottlenecks due to lack of planning facilities. In the meantime, this instrument – we have heard from Mr Moser, President of the Court of Auditors in the Committee – is being used very widely and intensively, which should have been used only in the short term. In 2014, around 550 to 600 employees will work for this agency. In the run-up to the Committee of Auditors and today’s debate, I have the 2008 “parliamentary correspondence” with respect for 2009 – with 1. In January 2009, this judicial service agency came into force – read through. At the time, the Ministry of Justice was very positive and very optimistic, because it was then assumed that a savings potential of € 2 million was already available in the first year and from 2010 onwards of around € 8 million, ladies and gentlemen, could be achieved! If we look at the Court of Auditors' report now, it is easy to calculate that this savings potential could not be realized. This potential for savings, I have to say in the middle of the order, is facing an investment requirement of around €12 million from 2008 to 2010 for the establishment of a special facility. The objectives have thus not been achieved. In some of the points to be criticised, including the fact that the staff is being booked as a matter of fact and therefore the staff plan loses the power of statement and control function, the Court of Auditors must also be confirmed in its criticism, for that is a point that cannot go. This cannot, in principle, be the case that something else is recorded, the funds are missing in the normal budget and the whole thing can no longer be understood. The President of the Court of Auditors has also said that the judicial service agency can almost be described as the "Best Practice Model" for how to deal with the personnel plan. President Moser also said that it was a blank check, which contradicted the principles of cost and budget truth. There is a great need for change, and we must also consider how it should continue. The Minister of Justice has promised in the Committee that he will accept this criticism, although he will be present at a meeting of the Federal Council on 6 June. In November of this year, the Court of Auditors was unable to approach criticism. In the Committee, however, he said that there was a need for change and that he would look at it. If there is a follow-up report on the judicial service agency, we will see what it looks like then – I hope it is better than it is documented in the Court of Auditors' report now before, for which I thank you very much at this point.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e20207	The next speaker was Mr Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e20229	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council. High house! I too want to deal with the Justice Service Agency, and I too would like to say in advance that there is really an important contribution. This is about further development to carry out the tasks, especially in connection with the execution of the penalty. We know – even in connection with some scandals that we have heard, but also independent of scandals – that there is a lot to do here. I was with my colleague, Meinl-Reisinger, at the Vienna-Mittersteig Justice Centre yesterday, and there too we see that there is simply a lack of staff that, as we have learned, night shifts start almost as early as 2.30 p.m. These are simply conditions that should not exist in prisons. The main reason for this is that personnel are missing. This is a problem, but a major problem – which has already been addressed in connection with the judicial service agency – is also the lack of transparency and the lack of budgetary truthfulness, because if staff are provided with the judicial service agency, it naturally falls under the normal establishment plan. The Court of Auditors has rightly criticized this, and we too ask ourselves: If we have identified this as a matter of fact, but we normally have an establishment plan in the back budget, then the question arises why this establishment plan is necessary there and how can it be that we try to bring additional staff in through another way? In this context, I think we should also decide in principle whether the stopover in this situation was correct. If one sees that obviously more staff is needed – and that clearly shows this construction: More staff is needed!This can also be achieved by talking to, among other things, the people working in the judicial service; there is a need for more staff – then the question is for reasons of transparency – especially for reasons of transparency! – why you should avoid it accordingly. It is also our Members here who agree to this budget, and if we see it afterwards, that is a matter of concern, that is something I do not think can be. Another point is an aspect of project management. Here, too, it acts as if there were no corresponding project management in the Ministry of Justice and there was no real responsibility for such projects, both in the merger of the district courts and in the provision of personnel through the judicial service agency. The President of the Court of Auditors also clearly criticised the fact that there was not really a strategy in this context. And what happens if there is no appropriate planning and no appropriate strategy? – Then it is usually very often so that expenditure is higher than necessary. There was, among other things, an invitation to tender which had to be made very short-term. Why the federal procurement company could not make this call and an external lawyer had to be commissioned with it, which then received a total of €35 000, has not been clarified. The problem of the whole story is: This is not about money that grows somewhere on trees, but it is money of taxpayers. We are also quite clear in the obligation that these funds are handled with caution and that they are used in a targeted and, above all, sparingly. If we are already discussing what kind of tasks the judicial service agency should now have, which is becoming increasingly advanced – we have already heard that personnel software has to be purchased that costs €600 000 – then we should also ask ourselves whether these tasks can be carried out through existing administrative structures. These administrative structures exist, and there is certainly a corresponding potential for savings. I also believe that there is a need for an immediate project manager, who is the master of planning and then also needs to draw the corresponding consequences in this context if something happens or if something goes wrong. In connection with the additional costs incurred, we believe that an evaluation is necessary with regard to the tasks of the judicial service agency. Accordingly, I would now like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e20320	The application is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e20368	Next speaker: Mr Hell. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e20390	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Another topic in this review report: The Court of Auditors reviewed at the end of 2012 the integration aid under the name ‘Come Back’ of the AMS. The Federal Business Office in Vienna and offices in the federal states of Lower Austria and Carinthia were examined. The integration aid is an employment promotion of the AMS and is paid as a subsidy to wage costs. The AMS therefore pursues two objectives: firstly, the integration of the unemployed, particularly in the long-term unemployed, in the regular labour market through promotion and employment, and secondly, the creation of additional jobs. The purpose of the audit of the Court of Auditors was to assess whether there has been transparent funding, whether the work success has been achieved and whether the control system has been suitable to prevent abuse. Ladies and gentlemen, the Court of Auditors noted at the beginning of its report that the “Come Back” integration aid of the labour market service was an effective tool for employment integration. In the case of two out of three integration aid, there was an employment relationship three months after the grantee. The Court also recognises the efforts of the AMS Austria to develop the quality of the care process. However, there are still critical comments in this report, which were finally summarised in 33 final recommendations of the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors notes, for example, that a uniform approach has not been established in the main areas of funding, so that employers have been confronted with objectively non-comprehensible differences in regional funding culture. In the discussion in the Committee, the Federal Minister noted that the entire active labour market policy in Austria is based on the principle of the single federal framework and a needs-based, decentralised implementation strategy. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that the Court of Auditors' suggestions are also taken very seriously in the area of integration aid by the Ministry of Social Affairs also shows that at its June meeting, the Board of Directors of the AMS adopted a new directive on integration aid, which will include many of the 33 conclusions and suggestions of the Court of Auditors and which will enter into force in 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e20432	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Hanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e20453	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I, too, have been involved in my debate on the Justice Service Agency. Already in the Committee and also in my previous speakers, I have noticed that there is obviously consensus in many areas here in the House, especially on the question of the need or need for additional resources in the field of justice in recent years and probably even in the future. We have circumstances in the execution of punishment, which we all want to improve together. We have the situation that we want to do more in the fight against corruption – as experts, of course, need it – and the Children's Assistance Act has come – and there we need additional personnel resources, as well as family judicial assistance, and controlling tasks have also been carried out in the area of justice. I see consensus on the need for more human resources in the field of justice. This additional need then exists in the field of tension of federal plans, which are very restrictive, and then, of course, the question arises, and this is actually the fundamental question, which also emerges from the Court of Auditors' report, whether it makes sense or not. If you judge the ex post, which has been done by the judicial service agency, there are also a few areas that you can highlight very positively. I would particularly like to mention the Forensic Center of Asten. Formerly, mentally abnormal rightbreakers were cared for in psychiatric hospitals. This has then been outsourced into its own units, and the Court of Auditors has found that the savings of just under €9 million have been made. Of course, one can then again argue that this could have been done in the original system, but I think the most important thing is that these savings have also been realized, and this should also be emphasized in the debates. I would also like to take this opportunity – I have had the opportunity to visit a forensic institution myself – to express my deep respect for the staff employed there. They do excellent work there in an environment that, I believe, is not quite that simple. In addition, the Court of Auditors report noted the question of experts. Of course, experts can also be bought on the market. We all know the honors of business consultants. The insourcen makes sense, and there were also plausible savings potentials of about € 600 000. The Court of Auditors' report also presents a rather neutral witness or even light profits on questions from the official interpreters and also notes that, even if the official interpreters are better organized, they have the potential for saving. The key question that remains is: Make distributions make sense, yes or no? . I would answer this question very clearly with Yes, especially in the field of the judicial service agency. One gives a system a more flexible environment, a different service right, other conditions for acting in accordance with the market. We all know the disadvantages of camera music and related topics. Of course, the question of how to do it is always decisive. I think that this has been done very responsibly and well in the area of the judicial service agency. Of course, a company that grows from zero employees to 600 employees in a few years also needs organizational development. Of course, you can do anything even better. There are also several issues that one can certainly better organise in the future, but in total, I think, the judicial service agency can look back on a very flexible and respectable result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e20512	The next speaker is Mr Angerer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e20533	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! I am clear that ladies and gentlemen of the government parties prefer to discuss other issues from the Court of Auditors' report than the Justice Service Agency. In summary, it is necessary to say that the aim of the Justice Service Agency has been completely missed, namely to provide a human pool for judicial institutions in Austria. This is also the case in the report, and if you look at the report a little more closely, you can see that there is now €18 million in budget, i.e. no small amount, and 600 employees are employed. ==References== District in Vienna rented an office of 18 €/m2, for the administration that was bloated there. They have double employees – in the judicial service agency and in the ministry. They have budget surpluses, which they will have to cover again from the ministerial budget. Ladies and gentlemen, many things have gone wrong. The fact that personnel costs are declared as material expenditure and therefore budgets and statistical data are beautified was a new experience for me as mayor. And I also got to know something new in another area, namely that credit is defined as reserves. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Doppler.]] That's something new! I didn't know you were so creative in the budget area. That is, the taxpayers, as Dr. Nachbaur always calls them, now have 280 billion deposits in Austria. These are the debts that ÖVP and SPÖ have accumulated in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That means, each of us Austrians has 37,400 € in debt or pays each in the year 1 100 € interest. This can be read at www.staatsbugen.at for everyone. But back to the judicial service agency: I had the opportunity last week to visit a judicial enforcement centre and to discuss a little with the ladies and gentlemen of the judicial board. Well, you have to say, it's a little different. The aim of the Justice Service Agency in particular in this area, namely to provide more staff to judicial guards, has not been met. The numbers have fallen, instead, psychologists, interpreters and so on, because more than 50 percent of our prisoners – in some cases even more – do not speak our language. Then you can see a note hanging on the pin wall, on which says: compliment centernung. That is, we obviously have whole gangs in our prisons, and you have to separate them there because they always come in and obviously make the next deal, because these are all old acquaintances, has been told to me. For me, the question is as follows: Why are foreigners in Austria not consistently postponed? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Then, I have to say honestly, I also think of a former minister who suggested that you could build prisons where the rulers come from. It was a good approach to fiscal consolidation. We would save ourselves a lot of money in Austria if we could accommodate the rulers right there. In the future, I would like to see the judicial service agency really live up to its name, to give appropriate support to the judicial guards, and not to the prisoners sitting in there because they should otherwise be renamed “inmate care agency”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e20605	Mr Willi. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e20627	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! I think our parliamentary stenographers, who patiently log all day, what comes from intermediate calls and where the applause comes from, once deserved a applause – thank you very much. [[General condolences.]] – Not a very simple job when it’s very lively sometimes. I am now talking about coral tunnels. The Court of Auditors is essentially saying that the award of construction services is okay, that has gone away, but the award of services is not sufficient, there is a need for action. In total, it amounts to €5.4 billion. . Anything else to say, Mr Gahr has already said. That is why I come to the political consequences of this report: We need and want to, if these things that are insanely eating up a lot of tax money and where the cost-benefit ratio is not present, are already being built, at least the EU co-financing that is already available in the Brenner base tunnel. And in order to get it, we need the toll that is possible under the EU Road Costs Directive. That means, step one: Toll surcharge also on the south axle, so that the Austrian trucks and transit trucks make a small contribution to the financing of this railway infrastructure. This is provided for in the EU Road Costs Directive. Step two – and this must have taken place by the end of February: Finally, the request for the EU to make a co-financing! If one does not make a request, there is no EU co-financing, and this is a lot for the burner. This is up to 40 percent for a cross-border project, and 20 to 25 percent are possible for the two other tunnels. The third point: When these huge tubes stand around in the landscape, it will be too little to argue that you have built them to reduce the driving time a bit. They can only be argued if we can move goods from the road to the rail, so if we electrify the freight transport, take it by rail. In order for this to happen, we need a shift instrument. And the only successful instrument that is currently available is the Alpine transit exchange developed in Switzerland, based on the ecopoint system we already had in Austria, based on trade in CO2 certificates. Ladies and gentlemen, the appropriate proposal is in the house, it is currently shubby. I urgently ask you: If we ever want to argue why we spent so much money – in total, €15 billion – for three tunnels, then this is only done with a consistent shift of freight transport from road to rail. My request is: Let us start by directing our Minister for Transport to begin negotiating the Alpine transit market in the EU as the best means of relocation! That's what we need, I'm looking for you for support.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e20693	Now comes Mr Mag. Loacker's word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e20714	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. High house! Appreciate viewers! Mr Hell referred to the report on ‘Come Back’. We are in favour of inclusion aid because they are temporary, and if they result in people being able to participate in the labour market in the long term and effectively. However, the Court of Auditors' report shows quite a few things that could be improved, and I would not like to leave it to the Minister to spread only roses. For example, it is not different which groups of unemployed have benefited from the integration aid. Were the elderly, were they particularly long-term unemployed? – This is interesting because there has been a shift in funds in favour of older unemployed people in recent times, and we are already concerned that jobseekers under 50 years of age can benefit from such integration aid. This must not be masked by the fact that it is not evaluated cleanly. We also criticize the high take-over effect. It has already been mentioned in the previous debate: If a take-off effect of 52 percent is reported – al- if 52 percent of the supported employment conditions would have been achieved if they had not been promoted – then we would be throwing money earned by the social insurers to the window. And that's irresponsible. This takeover effect could be reduced by better advice and more targeted awarding. Furthermore, reference was made to the duration of the aid. The Federal Directives provide that the duration of an integration aid may be up to two years, but on average it is supported between 59 and 107 days. It should be assumed that such short-term support does not contribute to long-term integration into the labour market, i.e. does not strengthen employees in the long term at this workplace. This is why we should intervene because labour market success is higher where the duration of support is longer. In our view, too much work is being done to obtain the jobseeker from the statistics. The funds could be used more effectively. Then I come to the report on old age care: Here, the Court of Auditors well points out why we in Austria are finally in need of structural reforms. Stationary long-term care is not sufficiently prepared for demographic challenges. The cost of care costs is expected to double by 2030, if we even know exactly what we are spending the money for, because – due to the “great” division of competence between the federal government, countries, health and social affairs – it is not safe to say what money is going on where. In particular in the area of homes, which are financed by the federal government of two thirds, there are no specific requirements for the number of homes. In other words, if you look at these test results now, you have the feeling that much money is handed over from the federal government to the countries, but that there is very little quality control and little comprehensible structures. Mr President, you have also criticised in the Committee that the headline is not a substitute for making qualitative and quantitative requirements in this field and that regional differences should be taken into account accordingly. Furthermore, there are no clear specifications regarding quality and further detailed planning. There are just structural problems that no one is addressing. It is to be feared that money will sluggish when looking at the size of the homes – not taking mobile care into account at all – and it is concluded that 450 places are available in Carinthia. That's a nice proof that money will be fried here, money that we don't have left. We must therefore at last make a clear and transparent approach to the issues so that in the field of care, the money is spent in such a way that it comes to those who also need it. Mr President, you were in the Court of Auditors in June of this year and you made a very clear statement on structural reforms. You have spoken of a massive underestimation of the situation – an assessment I can understand absolutely – and you have addressed the problems of the financing system. Repeat the demand that the money that is brought into the system should arrive at people quickly and efficiently. Still – especially in Austria’s east – nursing homes are built around nursing homes, and at the same time all people agree that the needy want to be cared for most in their usual environment, which also has a positive impact on the psyche at the same time; apart from that, it would be cheaper. In northern Europe, alternative care forms, on WGs, on enhanced mobile care, and we have to go – away from the bedding castles to flexible, mobile solutions. Here we must provide a clear framework in terms of quality and tariffs. Evidence, transparency and a clear commitment to delivering quality, we owe it to the taxpayers of yesterday, today and tomorrow.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e20778	Now comes Mrs Mag. Greener speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e20799	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! What was the subject matter of this report on ÖBB Infrastructure AG? – These were “First subprojects of the Koralmbahn”. In this case, the Court of Auditors has examined project-accompanied and not, as usual, after completion of the project. With a length of almost 130 kilometres, the Koralmbahn is probably an extremely crucial infrastructure project for Austria. It is a part of the axis connecting the Baltic to Upper Italy, and in Austria the following cities are integrated into this railway corridor: Vienna, Graz, Klagenfurt and Villach. What is the meaning of the Koralmbahn? – For Austria, it is of enormous economic, environmental and labour market relevance. It is a real alternative to passenger transport – one will no longer be able to handle the Vienna route – Villach in more than four hours, but in just three hours – and it is an alternative to freight transport. We want to shift freight from road to rail. The Koralmbahn makes the south axis as attractive as the west axle of the railway is already. And what does this section of the Styria bring? – The steirers are already benefiting from the completed sections. This is particularly important for the commuters: You can take the route from Deutschlandsberg to Graz in 60 minutes in 40 minutes, even in only 30 minutes after the final extension, i.e. half-time. The connection to the Graz district hub is also decisive, because there will then be a train connection from Graz to Venice. Positive is not only the effect of the coral track, the test result is also positive: In the framework plan, only a one-percent deviation is observed and this is a very, very good balance sheet. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e20836	I call Mr Pock. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e20858	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate Seers and Advisors! I too would like to talk about the Koralmbahn project. – Yes, the Court of Auditors has indicated that cost development is stable, I believe that it is crucial for such a large project. We NEOS have repeatedly criticized the tunnel construction projects – with the exception of the Semmering base tunnel – because we believe that the money could have been significantly better invested. This is not a classic ÖBB bashing, only in the relation: We had the theme of Hypo very recently at the table, there was this group at TU, which built the “Hypotopia”, with almost €18 billion a city for 110,000 inhabitants. Now, in three tunnel construction projects, we invest almost the same amount as we do. for a city with 110 000 inhabitants – according to the latest technical standard, decentralised energy supply and, and, That means you have to see the relationship here and question the benefits. That was always our criticism: In fact, there is no evaluation of ongoing infrastructure projects. We know that there are very good arguments for some projects, but we also know that, for example, traffic forecasts have been significantly reduced and that we are not expected to have such traffic in the next 20 or 25 years. We know that these traffic forecasts have also been significantly reduced in freight transport. For example, we know from the Brenner Base Tunnel that there are studies that say that neither the expected environmental impact nor the foreseeable impact on the health of the population will occur to the extent that they have been forecast. What we wanted here were regular, in the best case annual evaluations of the latest forecasts, the most recent studies, in order to check whether projects can still be ground in any form, can be considered further. There could also be the opposite, but that is hardly happening. Perhaps in the cabinets, but it does not take place in the National Council, it does not take place at the SCHIG, it does not take place in any other enterprise. That's to be criticized. The second point is that, of course, in addition to the national economic bill, a classic cost-benefit account must also be made in the field of transport policy, which does not take place. And the third is that all studies and all the reasons why these projects are of national importance must also be published on the web. That is not the case either. You really need to let this criticism happen. Three specific points which have also been addressed in the Court of Auditors' report: All sub-areas and cost participations must be included in a calculation. One essential point was that from Graz to Weitendorf one had a whole section, namely to the airport, that branch just didn't have in the total calculation. After that, it was said at ÖBB that one had a good cost saving, which instead of €400 million, this sub-route would cost only €100 million, but these €100 million did not find themselves in the calculation for the overall project – €100 million more than originally thought. The second point is that the federal states have been taken on a flat-rate basis. I would remind you that – this is what Mr Willi of the Greens has already said – we are talking about just under €5.4 billion. The two federal states each have an interest rate of € 140 million. Since – and this is no accusation at all – such projects continue to increase in costs due to value adjustment, valorization, interim financing and so on, the total share of the two federal states has fallen from 3.98 percent to 2.69 percent. It cannot be in the inventor's sense if there are value adjustments, that the federal states pay less and the federal government pays more – for no one. The third point has already been raised: EU co-financing. We are just talking about a project with more than €5.4 billion of costs, a co-financing of 20.25 percent, that is, a good billion euros that is not currently in the room. We have to be here, regardless of whether we approve of the Koralm Tunnel now or not, whether we believe that it was exactly the right one for transport policy, or, as we say NEOS, it was a political gift, that doesn't matter – to this Co-financing is taking care of, because if we don't, we have to save these finances elsewhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e20921	Mrs Magnette has now come to speak. Mulder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e20942	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! I would like to focus briefly on the family aid extended within the framework of the Justice Agency. As a result of this expansion, the basic fee has also increased enormously. With the Childhood and Name Law 2013 this institution has been available to Austria since July this year. This family court shall act on behalf of the Court of First Instance and shall be bound by judicial orders. Family judges are put to the side in matters of care and the right to personal contacts with social workers, psychologists and educators. A typical task is the clearing, the collection of decision-making bases, material opinions and so on. This facility provides valuable work to carry out family law procedures and also ensures that children receive the best possible expertise in particularly painful situations. The countries also have youth welfare facilities, but they only have to take child welfare into account and are not available to the court. This is a completely different approach; there are no overlaps either. The Ministry of Justice is encouraged to take account of the Court of Auditors' recommendations, as only in this way can cost efficiency be guaranteed, which will also have a cost-effective impact on the planned development of the Jugendgerichtshilfe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e20976	Mr Spindelberger is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e20997	Mr Angerer, as you said earlier that the representatives of the government parties had not addressed the so-called hot issue of the judicial service agency, I am replying: They obviously slept this evening, because many of the legitimate criticisms that the Court of Auditors has also highlighted have been used here. I do not need to beautify anything, many of these criticisms are logically comprehensible, but I think we should be more honest with ourselves, and once again say how it has ever happened. It is always so easy when we politicians stand up and say, on the one hand, we have to take account of the administrative system, of the total staff cuts, these are looking at the department, and on the other hand, we are expanding the scope of the task so that it simply comes to countless additional expenses and in the outsourced units, as well as here, the number of people by tenfold. Mr Steinhauser mentioned it correctly in his speech: Originally, it was only intended to provide staff for the execution of the sentence, and without exception for the execution of the sentence. In the meantime, however, the role of the Justice Service Agency has been extended to almost all areas of justice, resulting in that, instead of the 60 people originally remembered, 600 people were serving there. The Court of Auditors considers that, because of this, an additional burden has been incurred, which, in the course of the course of the course, has not led to any originally planned savings. I think that we should discuss exactly why it will ultimately bring us all out of jobs if there are no savings. I fully agree with the Court of Auditors that it cannot be said here in Parliament, on the one hand, that we want a cost-effective, quality support in the execution of sanctions and measures and, on the other hand, that it is not even possible to understand whether these 600 jobs are at all necessary or not, especially since there is no appropriate personnel deployment concept to date, which would also allow a useful care key. It would therefore be more than useful to take the Court of Auditors' criticism not only seriously but also to launch a rapid, comprehensive evaluation.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e21048	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We come to the vote on the request from the Committee of the Regions to take note of this report III-68 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Meinl-Reisinger, colleagues, on the evaluation and reintegration of the judicial service agency. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. [[20:30:07]] 6. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report, vol. 2013/9 (III-22/358 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e21104	We're now on the 6th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e21131	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to apologize to the colleagues of the ORF, and to ask the ladies and gentlemen at home on the screens that are still pursuing today's debate and are not a criminal or do not want to see themselves in the night, to leave the room for a moment or not to listen to it. This report on the Salzburg financial scandal really reads like a crime, I believe, is not a source of tension. And I can really give this report to all of my colleagues here in the House who do not yet know the report. What's in it? – Risky soccer on banks and stock exchanges, speculation with tax money, 300 bank accounts with sales of at least €9.5 billion, which one has not found in accounting, seat information in which one simply deleted paragraphs, others have changed, others have simply added, a national accounting court that is certified throughout Germany that it does not carry out the audit of the accounts according to national and international criteria – a total failure, a check and test failure at many levels. The consequences have already been drawn at the Salzburg level. There has been an investigation committee at national level. The Landtag has been working on it, and the financial unit has also worked in detail on it. Apart from one thing, in Salzburg, all responsible government members have now assumed or at least had to take over political responsibility. What are the derivatives at the federal level? – On the one hand, I believe that we should try together again to make absolutely a federal ban on speculation in the constitutional rank. Unfortunately, it didn't work out in the spring. I believe that the current Fleckerlteppich at the national level is nice, but certainly not enough to ensure the confidence in our financial system and, above all, in the careful handling of tax funds throughout the country. The second good point is that the President of the Court of Auditors has announced in the Committee that he is in contact with the Minister of Finance on the issue of the introduction of a modern budgetary right. This too, I believe, is a very important step towards greater transparency and confidence in a modern accounting system.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e21173	Mrs Schittenhelm. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e21195	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! The report on ‘Land Salzburg – Financial Situation’, why have we been presented as the Court of Auditors’ report? – Because the Court of Auditors actually examined OeBFA, the Austrian Federal Finance Agency. And this financial agency is the agency that provides the federal states with loans for country financing, but only when it comes to securing basic transactions. But the land of Salzburg has used it for the purpose of charge. The fact is that this report shows very impressively – at this point a thank you to the President and his team – not only as it worked here, but also as to what serious mistakes and actually wrongs have been committed here. The ICS, the internal control system, has completely failed here. That means there was absolutely no presence. And I can list some points that show the incredible failure of this control system and also of the persons concerned. There was no comprehensive internal control system, no four-eye principle, no minimum information, no transparency and completeness of records, no ongoing economic evaluation of financial transactions and therefore poor presentation of the data situation. And by decree – you have to imagine that once! – the Director of the State was excluded from the examination of the conduct and the accounting. Assets and liabilities were not fully and transparently recorded in the accounts. The financial operations concluded by the Land of Salzburg were linked to high risks and uncertainties. The financial management of the Land of Salzburg did not have sufficient human resources or the necessary evaluation and control systems. Ladies and gentlemen, as has been said, the country's financial management has completely failed here. The financial operations concluded by the Land of Salzburg were linked to high risks and uncertainties. And that was also the reason for the fact that in 2009 the Court of Auditors carried out a follow-up review. One might think that even then this disastrous situation should not only have been recognized but, of course, should also be reviewed. However, this has already been mentioned, this report also clearly states that documents sent to the Court of Auditors have been substantially changed by deleting and adding passages. That is to say, the Court of Auditors has been completely deceived on the facts. One has to imagine that 2007 saw a marked risk and loss potential of €178.20 million. So 41 percent of the financial debt is 10 percent of the revenue. In 2006 or before, the integration of national accounts into the financial department was made. This lack of separation clearly contradicts the internal control principle. And the employees of the financial management were equipped with authority to complete financial transactions. The Plenipotentiaries have included the possibility of account openings, but also account closures. There was no four-eye system there. Many accounts, especially foreign currency accounts, were not included in the national accounts. Finally, in 2012 300 bank accounts and 120 foreign currency accounts with an order of 9.5 billion € were not recorded in the invoices of the country Salzburg. The 2011 financial statements showed liabilities of a total of €1.4 billion, which corresponded to 63 percent of the total Salzburg national budget. I could continue the list. It's incredible. It is really like an exciting criminal novel, unfortunately it was and is reality. The fact is that the Oesterreichische Bundesfinanzagentur not only received the Court’s recommendations, but also the Court’s findings have led to guidelines for OeBFA, which, of course, did not observe the control of the Court of Auditors at the time, saying: We are not at all authorized to carry out control! Finally, I would like to thank you once again, Mr President, and your team. It was another excellent work. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e21262	Next speaker: Mr Podgorschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e21283	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Yes, this Court of Auditors report clearly and clearly shows the morals of Salzburg at that time. In fact, the speech of my predecessor would not add anything, because it clearly and clearly showed what happened at that time, namely, the failure of control. If you'd be kind, you could still say it. was sloppy or negligent – or it was conscious error. If I read the Court of Auditors' report, I tend to see that it was conscious error, because the Court of Auditors' report is clear and clear inside: “The management of the State of Salzburg did not sufficiently exercise its control and supervisory responsibility.” There was no internal control system. The question, of course, arises: Why didn't they want that? - Because they just had something to hide. Yeah, it even went that far. A possible internal revision was “exemptly excluded from the examination of the conduct and the accounting system by the decree of the State Office.” – So it can no longer be any worse. Secondly, the colleague Schittenhelm has already pointed out that the assets, i.e. the securities and claims plus the debt, were not fully and transparently recorded in the accounts. For example, there were 300 bank accounts – one has to imagine: say and write 300 bank accounts – and of them 120 foreign currency accounts with an amount of €9.5 billion. I repeat it once again so that everyone understand how much it was: 9,5 billion € have not been booked! It's unimaginable! Another point: ‘The accounting units based on the estimate and accounting regulation () did not provide complete, sufficient information on the actual financial situation.’ We have experienced all this about the media reports and withdrawals of various politicians. Thus, the liabilities and claims were booked in such a way that they were “abstained from the decision making of the landing day. ” – So that’s already an ordinary chuzpe, when I imagine that you’re just going by the legislative. And I'm already expecting the corruption prosecutor's office to work on this. But there's a big deal for me, and he's been mentioned, too. We need a uniform accounting system at all levels, at the level of the federal, state and local authorities, of course in different forms, but nevertheless in a uniform framework. We have already negotiated this in the last legislative period. We have already agreed on a two-thirds matter, but it is no longer taken up by the government groups at present. I'm going to repeat it here on the spot: We are prepared to take such a decision. Then we no longer need to conduct the negotiations with the countries, then the Federal Minister does not need to make any regulations, then we have a very clear legal situation. And I could imagine that we're not the only opposition party to go there. I have already mentioned it, I hope that the courts will also act here, because I believe that this is more than just a political scandal, and I expect the appropriate judicial review.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e21348	Mrs. Dr. Moser is the next speaker, and I ask her to speak.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e21369	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank my previous speakers, who have done so in detail the disastrous situation caused by a lack of control, by really essential, massive, There is a serious lack of control in Salzburg, which has been put forward in great detail. And that a country day that a federal country has done this check-ups is only a scandal. I am not yet talking about the size of the billions that have now been mentioned. That is already the result of this lack of control which is devastating. Despite this misallocation of public funds, a harmless expression, despite the discovery of this total scandal, the consistent steps are still missing. My previous speaker has already said it, at the federal level, was already largely consensus that the accounting system is being harmonised, that the national budgets are finally designed on a uniform basis, that assets have to be clearly balanced, that loss accounts must be made in such a way that they are transparent, so that one has an overview of what the situation is, and that there are no loopholes for such events, where, in cooperation with others, individual people then go to the territory of high-risk speculation transactions on various international exchanges. Interestingly, I learned prematurely that in Salzburg individual personalities speculate with highly toxic papers. I then told my friends and colleagues about this in Salzburger Landtag. They also asked questions, only the answers left to be desired. The persons concerned have returned to the table, have not answered correctly what has been asked about questions. And with that, the discovery has been delayed again for half a year and also the reprocessing of these speculation billions of losses. I'll come back to that again: Not only have the control failures been partially eliminated, but also the necessary transparency at the federal level has not been fully implemented. The then Minister of Finance Fekter, who is now no longer present, was already relatively far. It has already negotiated so that this transparent accounting system, the double accounting system and these assets are finally valid for all the federal states. And that's what all the federal states should have kept. Only then, at once, Klubobmann's head pulled the line, probably on the cause of any national captain, and now we are in the same position as before. Almost a billion were swimming down the stream. The Court of Auditors lists all of this in detail – and the National Council sits there paralysed. Yeah, please, where are we?- Oh, my God! This thing must at last have consequences! And I do not understand at all that the majority groups, whose size is growing, still do not have the courage to stand up to certain national leaders. What's the matter? In Upper Austria, the financial performance is already largely transparent. Steiermark is also trying. We know most about Carinthia. In Tyrol we ourselves are at work, and, I believe, the resistance is small. What is it about? Is Lower Austria and is Vorarlberg really the teacher of the Republic now? So now we really must, beyond our federal origin, in the sense of budgetary truth, in the sense of budgetary transparency, in the sense of avoiding dubious speculation transactions, finally act and produce a two-thirds majority that really pushes forward to the one bar, which the Court of Auditors really considers very, very terrifying in all the details. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e21416	Next speaker: Mrs Schenk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e21438	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Especially steep is the learning curve of domestic politics not in terms of debt – that is to say, if one lets the debate take place here Revue. The previous speakers have already reflected the financial scandal in Salzburg in detail and repeated the facts and facts once again. I do not want to do what I want to do, however, is what lessons we draw from this report. The various scandals, whether in Salzburg, in Lower Austria, in Linz, are discussed once again, once less medially reported, but nothing happens. A number of previous speakers have also mentioned the ban on speculation. We have been here almost so far to decide and to find the two-thirds majority. However, shortly before the election, it was unfortunately not achieved, it was no longer implemented, because some of the country's chiefs did not participate. And I am very sorry, ladies and gentlemen, because here everyone should really try to make a uniform ban on speculation in the constitutional order with a two-thirds majority. As far as the countries and the dissension on accounting are concerned, the Court of Auditors has also noted this, and it has already been debated today –: We need a uniform accounting system in order to have comparable results and transparency in order to compare the budgets, and there are also efforts and discussions with the federal states in this regard. But this too is a point where nothing simply happens, where there is no change and where only talk is spoken, spoken and spoken. But nothing actually comes out, nothing will be decided, nothing will be changed, nothing goes on, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] What was particularly threatening, and I would like to return to the financial scandal in Salzburg: Protocols have been faked, false information has been issued, information has not been published at all. And at the beginning of this scandal, we also discussed in the Court of Auditors what it looks like with sanctions, what consequences it would be if the Court of Auditors were to be lied about sending false documents or holding back documents. So this is also a point we should keep in mind. We discussed and discussed this at the last meeting of the Court of Auditors. President Moser said it was not necessary to think of sanctions or consequences here at the moment, but in the future it should be kept clear. President Dr. Moser also informed us that all nine federal states had fully examined compliance with the limits of liability. This report will appear soon and will also be presented to the House. I am really very curious about it and I hope that it will be much better and not so negative – which is almost impossible – like this report on Salzburg. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e21484	Mr Schellhorn is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). The remaining speaking time of the group is only 3 minutes. I would ask you to keep this time frame. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e21505	Mr President. Just briefly, I just believed I was in a wrong movie. The excitement of the colleague Schittenhelm I didn't fully understand the Lord Kucher, for at least it was red and black. At that time there were tears of red and black in the state government here and affected faces there. I don't know myself at all. Who's all resigned? – A head of state has been elected, the financial officer has resigned. I just want to talk about a number that has not yet been discussed. It's about €350 million loss of tax money. That came out under the line. But this consequence has not yet been discussed at all, so it is easy to deal with. I could, of course, repeat everything my previous speakers said, but there are a few questions in the sense of transparency. Was it in the sense of taxpayers that the award of a test order to the company Ithuba can be done completely freely, i.e. without tendering procedures? Was that all right? Do we think that's okay? What has changed structurally? Where are the consequences of this, apart from the discharge of the expert and the early retirement of Mr Hofrat, which has not been so easy? The lessons we should draw from them are that we now need consistent but also binding requirements, a uniform accounting system for the federal government and also a legal speculation ban. There has already been the proposal of the then Minister of Finance, which has failed due to the necessary constitutional majority. Why can't we take this up and discuss it together now and also bring a ban on speculation into the constitutional rank in a Lessons-Learned process? - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e21548	Next speaker: Mr. Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e21569	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! An incredible report, incredible facts and facts that have already been addressed by the previous speakers, an incredible process that was clearly the rule in the Salzburg regional administration and financial policy until 2013, and – let me put it this way – also an incredible diletantism in control! It has already been mentioned, in financial management and in accounting, there was no effective control system, no transparency, no four-eye principle, no function stress and no minimum information. I should like to mention a few details: incredible lack of accounting of financial transactions, forgery of protocols, addition of passages, reports to the Financial Advisory Board were incomplete and incorrect, incorrect presentation of the liabilities, far overlaid, beyond the legal regulations, and even financial transactions were recorded without original evidence, only self-certifications have been written. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a long list of errors which, as already mentioned, were caused by taxpayers to a great extent. Unfortunately, it must be noted that the country of Salzburg has no overview of its financial operations and that a comprehensive system failure is detected at all levels. Another word on the question of accounting. I also believe that we must further develop the accounting system at community level. But I can quote the new financial director Herbert Prucher, who said: “Now all are talking about double accounting, but also with the previous system you could have had an overview of everything that happens there.” Ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors' reports also serve as a means of improving work in the future. That is why I have also tried to give me an overview of the consequences in the country of Salzburg. What have the new Salzburg Landtag and the new financial reference in the government of Dr. Stöckl started on measures? The Landtag dealt very thoroughly with this situation and decided to restructure the financial area and also in the medium term the introduction of the Doppian accounting system. In the meantime, the speculative derivatives have been completely dismantled, and a final strategy, called on the Court of Auditors, has been adopted on the reduction of the speculation portfolio. There is a commitment to present these financial causa in full in the 2014 financial statements. Staff and structural changes have been made in the financial department. There was a separation between accounting and financial department, which was also in political responsibility, and a budget service as well as the federal government was installed, and much more. Ladies and gentlemen! I am convinced that the new Salzburg state government will succeed with the head of state Dr. Haslauer to re-establish the Salzburg finances and put Salzburg back on stable and secure financial legs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e21620	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e21642	Mr President. High house! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! On the Court of Auditors' report, the country of Salzburg, the financial situation concerning: Speculations with public money, the money of taxpayers, is forbidden! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Elmar Podgorschek has already mentioned: 300 accounts, 120 of them in foreign currency. In 2012 alone, €9.5 billion was implemented. Losses of around 350 million tax money, without the Land Accounting and the Land Day knowing about it, ladies and gentlemen! Of course, in the Financial Monitoring Committee, President Rosemarie Blattel often questioned the financial situation as to whether there were bad loans, and more. This has been denied over and over again, ladies and gentlemen. – The facts and figures can be found in the Court's report. The Landtag was not informed, but the Court of Auditors was presented with counterfeit protocols. The Salzburg invoice for the year 2013 has a debt of €2.2 billion, with a debt of approximately €2 billion for 2014. Highly interesting, dear Ladies and gentlemen, is also the statement of the financial referent Christian Stöckl, who recently said that it could be about 50 million surplus this year. - No one understands this: On the one hand, you have €2.2 billion in debt, and on the other hand you speak of €50 million plus! [[President Bures takes over the presidency again.]] For me, the question – which has already been raised by Mr Podgorschek – is why the prosecutor's office has not yet become active here. There is an urgent need for action, ladies and gentlemen. A senior official, Mr Hofrat, has been sent to retirement, and another official writes her second book. – That’s how it looks, ladies and gentlemen! The question, especially the political question of who has equipped these officials with such authority, has not yet been clarified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e21702	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Kogler. I'll give it to you and set you 4 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e21723	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! We do not have to dig around here in the National Council in the details of the Salzburg gesture – I think that was your concern – but some speakers have, as I believe, rightly, already stressed the bow. How does it even look with a federal uniform speculation ban? This would also happen to the countries if we organized it, and the case of example can of course already be used, and finally the succoos of your work; for that, I do not know if this has already been mentioned, where you have been played badly by the audited ones there. I don't want to let that go without mentioning if that's already the subject. We are of course talking about Salzburg and the speculation bands there. Why do I say "pans"? What really is a fiasco when we compare the dimensions – what are we scratching at Salzburg? –: Then let's look at Lower Austria! You can warm up once in a while. But now still to the whole impressions that play a role here. It is also always about the federal-state ratio in financial conduct, financial federalism. On the contrary, we in the Green Group are increasingly concerned that it might, if we were to say something bad, not be as bad as the discipline of expenditure or the independent responsibility of the countries, because of or there to have more financial autonomy. But then, by the way, the federal states also have to assume responsibility for some kind of revenue. This is a subject in this context. That is why I mention this because I am already talking about the expenditure side of the budgets. The ban on speculation is very close to the question of budgetary law. There is always the issue that the countries are already moving positively – some of them are; some are based on the federal scheme, like the Styria, that should be praised – but how this works in practice at country level is another question. Others, on the other hand, have tried to work in the direction of Vorarlberg, which is traditionally good and good when it comes to keeping the money together, in particular the public. Overall, however, the problem remains the same as with the ban on speculation, if it is not uniform, that we are giving ourselves huge opportunities here or simply maintaining an annoyance: because there is still little willingness among the country representatives, especially the national leaders – if you want to do so, simply expressed for the last ones who are still watching or listening – that the accounting, the cost bill is not only somewhat comparable, but is just uniformed. There's no way you can see why that doesn't happen. For decades now, there has been a framework for accounts for operating expenditure. The We have already learned in the introduction semester at the university. And that's what it takes here. This is not a premise that in the federal states, which are in structural and size through and through comparable with Styria and Upper Austria, I always bring the example – for example, in health care, where a lot of money goes in – thank God that we can afford it – no reforms are taken. On the contrary! Upper Austria has tried something for years, and there has also been something successful. The Styria is also trying something I don't want to qualify for now, but I don't want to ignore the effort. But that we have a state of not being able to make any comparisons at all, therefore, do not create any benchmarks at all, no valid ones at all, that is due to the fact that it is not wanted, obviously not to this day, that uniform account systems prevail. This should apply to all areas, health, social affairs and cetera, simply to make things comparable once. This is always feared as the devil did the holy water. This may have gotten a bit out of place now, but still, I think, there is a lot of threat in it, although good would be expected. Now I'll just cut it off. The question of transparency is also raised in the further areas of dissemination. We are not yet at the last point to be reached. And we are not yet so far as liability – also a popular topic, famous in other contexts – that we can really make uniform standards. The countries always say we should not govern them. Yes, but I have not yet seen a uniform scheme of a plausible order and comparable to the countries of the above-mentioned limits of liability, which they might then enter into the national financial constitution. If at least they did it when they've always been talking about autonomy. - Missing too! It's all a theme. The last one is: The federal ban on speculation, which should also apply to countries, is missing. It has always been claimed here that such a proposal would be in the house if you have looked closely, you have seen, it was the opposite: The countries were once again able to define themselves – with all these many open things that were not regulated there – what speculation is and what is not. Lower Austria has proved it, and that's what I'm going to do. They are not clear, Mr. Landes Captain and Mr. Finanzlandesrat, that what they have done is speculation. Of course! They were only a short time ago – that was the last time I was working on it in cooperation with the Court of Auditors – with 1.8 billion under water, with housing funds! That's completely absurd! That is why I said at the beginning, too, that Salzburg is still an Occupation against it. Do you know what the head of state of Lower Austria is doing in unity with his Finance Council? He pointed to the President of the Court of Auditors and said: The pea counters on the Danube Canal don't understand anything! – This is the political culture in the country that is lived by one of the last princes of the country! Many have already been converted relatively – this is a term with which you can always start a lot; because the government constellations may have changed too – but there is still a country prince reliable! The Gallic village of the Black Princes is St. Pölten. And there's nothing good going on when you go on like this. [[Congratulations with Greens, Team Stronach and NEOS.]] This is best seen in the debate with the Court of Auditors. Mr President, be sure that most of the Members of this House are on your side.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e21796	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Nice to meet you. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e21817	Madam President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, who have followed our debate on ORF III. It has already been said a lot about this truly incredible, inconceivable criminal case that took place in Salzburg, so I can take a short look at it. I would nevertheless like to take the opportunity to thank you first, Mr President of the Court of Auditors, for your staff, for the good work on this very, very delicate subject, on the subject of the financial debacle in Salzburg. It is, as has been said, really inconceivable what has happened here, so we must create solution-oriented measures so that such a thing can never happen again. Thankfully, the Court of Auditors has given us 90 points – larger and smaller ones – along the way, which, although not 100 percent of them can prevent such a thing from happening again, the probability that such a thing will happen again will certainly be significantly reduced when you take care of these 90 points that you have given us. Ladies and gentlemen! To Salzburg: Important and correct steps have been taken since the 2013 country election. As an example, I mention that the chamberalistic accounting system is being converted into a double accounting system in accounts, as we have already done – Mr Kogler, gratefully mentioned – in Styria. Ladies and gentlemen. I believe that we have heard enough about debt and wrongs in this entire causa to this day. Although processing is important and correct – it does not end up bringing a single cent back to the Landeskassen, and above all it does not bring people to Salzburg at all. That's why my appeal is: Let us take these suggestions seriously from the Court of Auditors. That is what we can do here in Parliament. The Court of Auditors has given us an instruction that we would and will do well to take these seriously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e21860	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure to take note of this report III-22 of the additions. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[21:09:39]] 7. Point Report by the Committee on Sports on the Government proposal (320 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Anti-Doping Federal Act 2007 (344 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e21904	We're now on the 7th. Agenda item. There is no oral reporting. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I give it to him and set the 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e21933	Thank you very much, Madam President. Estimated Minister of Sport! High house! With 1. January 2015 the new World Anti-Doping Code enters into force. Austria must adapt its anti-doping provisions to these new rules. Our law is with 1. July 2007 entered into force, and it is a good opportunity to link the experiences of the years from 2007 to today with the new World Anti-Doping Code and incorporate it into the law. From our experience this is simply important and indispensable. We have noted from the outset that it is important to involve the institutions concerned as much as possible. NADA – NADA’s managing director is here in the hall, and I’m your name, Mr Mag. [[the speaker points towards the audience gallery]] Cepic, welcome; he sees whether we are doing all this with the decision today – the BSO, the Data Protection Commission, the Ministerial Bureau and the Sports Committee of Parliament have had sufficient time, have discussed intensively, have conducted good discussions, and I am grateful to all those involved for constructive cooperation. One thing has yet to come up with: In the Sports Committee, Mr Brosz presented a very good proposal to which all the parties are approaching, and I can therefore read the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I propose and wish that this amendment be approached within the meaning of all political groups. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e22022	The amendment which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr Mag. Smoking. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e22049	Madam President. Mr. Minister! I would like to thank all the sports speakers for their good cooperation in the Committee and you, Dieter, also for the management of the Committee. What is it about in this new anti-doping law? – I think we – my group – are mainly concerned with three important components in sport. The sport should be clean, the sport should be fair. An important area is not to tolerate violence in sports, the second important area – we have also done so together with the Minister – is to fight against the fraud in sports, and the third important area is a modern anti-doping law. I think we have to do everything here in Austria, but also around the world to stop doping. Doping is unfair, doping is anticompetitive, doping is unsportable, and it is above all a serious threat and a threat to health. That's exactly what has to be done! We want – and we are – this anti-doping law, which we hope to decide today across all six parties, to be pioneers throughout Europe and all over the world. My previous speaker, Hermann Kristit, said: The new World Anti-Doping Code will enter into force in 2015. We're moving along with it, as I mean, exemplaryly. It must also be remembered that we need a modern anti-doping law to have major sporting events in the country in the future, and that is why I am glad that we really did this across all parties. Some acts are redefined in this law – only very briefly: One is the complicity and the “forbidden handling, ” that is, aid for doping and the care of persons who are blocked by doping. The regular penalties are also increased from two to four years. We have redesigned the National Test Pool in this novel, and improvements have also been made to data protection law, especially where the rights of athletes are concerned. Because of one thing I am quite, very glad, because – I do not see Niko Alm right now; well, he is sitting there – Niko Alm, who was at the beginning for the release of Doping, was also clear about this and then voted in committee for this anti-doping law. [[Abg. Alm will wink to the speaker]] And I would also like to thank the Members of the NEOS for having made the slant, which is why we can decide on this today across all six parties. My particular thanks go to the Federal Sport Organisation, especially the Secretary-General, the NADA, of course to your place of business, but also to the judicial and internal areas that have worked diligently. [[towards Federal Minister Klug]] But I still have a wish, that you, Niko Alm, will adapt your homepage to today's decisions. You had the following statement on your homepage today at 14.33 a.m. “Sport is private business. [[the speaker keeps the expression of a screenshot in height]] Doping too.” I think it would be in the sense of all, if you might take the article off your homepage, then your party's voting behaviour would be such that it is coherent. I don't think we need this article on the homepage anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e22105	The next item is Mr Brosz. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e22127	Madam President. Federal Minister! I also think it is important that, as part of the decision-making process, there will now be a unanimous amendment, which all the political groups support, because I believe that, of course, the discussion can always be conducted, with which one is hurt and what the legal conditions behind it are. The anti-doping law, I think, is about something else. It is a question of the fact that sportsmen, especially young athletes who enter the field of performance, should have an opportunity to put them on clean sports, because if doping is not pursued rigorously, it is clear that there are no opportunities to get out of the youth field to the professional sector, and so, I think, it is very relevant to draw clear boundaries in this regard. It is therefore important that the Sports Committee, and now also the plenary, give a clear sign of this. – By the way, I am also pleased that the amendment has been tabled together. There are a few small things in the law, which I believe would actually be possible improvements, and I also mentioned this in the Committee. This time we have not yet come to it, but perhaps it is a matter for the future. One is the question – we have already discussed this in the law in 2007, I think – how this can be understood with medical care. There is a passus in the law that the athlete has his status in a medical treatment, namely that he is subject to the provisions of the anti-doping law, and I always wonder: What does the doctor do with this information? because no doctor is obliged to know all anti-doping conditions. So the obligation is: The athlete goes and tells the doctor: I am an athlete and I have these and those provisions, but what the doctor does with them is completely irregular. Our proposal was already this way: Let's make it possible to develop a certification so that there are also doctors who say: Okay, you can rely on me to deal with the rules. I know them, and if I do a treatment with them, I'm sure they'll be observed. - Otherwise, it's going to be empty. For example, a well-known Austrian tennis player has received a doping barrier just because of medical treatment. Whether that was all right in the news has been another chapter. There was definitely no doping matter, but it then came to a shorter lock. It is simply unnecessary that such things happen. Second point – and that was something that was still my concern, because we also discussed it several times in the Sports Committee: The question of an admissibility in a doping procedure reminds me a little of the animal welfare law, but not because it concerns horses, but because it concerns the question of who remains at the cost. Although it is clear that the cost of procedures – i.e. the cost of doping samples, analyses – does not depend on the sportsman or the sportswoman, if it comes to an advocacy, but on the actual cost of the proceedings, and we have also discussed this, she remains 1 : 1. There is no replacement for procedural costs. And there's one thing you have to say, if you look at the rules that are relatively complicated: I would like to see who, as a sportsman, can enter such a procedure without a lawyer's office. That's why it's indiskuta- Call that, although procedural costs are limited and may also be limited, there is no cost replacement. If there is an admissibility, we also believe that it should be made clear that – in the case of all necessary persecution of corresponding doping violations – the athlete does not remain at the expense of the player. One last point I would like to address: I hope that – I have read this in the law – an international standard will really be applied in the field of quality in doping controls. I have seen doping checks, where signatures were missing, which were actually planned – which of the inspectors are there, as they are taking place – and I hope that, for example, hygienic standards will really be adhered to, for example, with regard to the question of where doping control takes place when I go to the swimming pool. Where is she made? I think that we need to catch up in comparison with other countries. I do not want to roll this out in all form now, but some things seem to be in need of information. For example, you have to ask yourself the question – I also heard this when talking to athletes – whether it makes sense that the same doping controls always come somewhere. There is quite the feeling that sometimes not only proper controls take place. I say an example: ==References====External links== At 5.45 a.m. in the morning, I might think that I'm a certain shock. One could already discuss what is being controlled, but if such a case occurs, I would also ask myself the question of what to do with it, it is obvious that even a sportsman might celebrate New Year's Eve and perhaps even have a different form. It seems remarkable to me that one may see if he wakes up or not. In so far as I believe that we should look at the fact that such accusations are no longer being measured on the same scale and that a more fair, transparent control system is simply observed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e22191	The next item is the motion for a resolution by Mrs Weigerstorfer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e22212	Madam President. Minister! The anti-doping law to be decided by us today is another important step on the way to more fairness in sports. Apart from the already mentioned, also frequently proven health-damaging aspects, it is no matter what level, at least unethical, unfair and de facto even a fraud. For this reason, I welcome not only as a citizen, but also as a sportsman unreservedly this improvement and strengthening of anti-doping provisions. Sports successes are particularly closely linked to economic success in professional sport. Therefore, the increase in performance achieved by prohibited substances is, in some way, also an economic factor. The World Doping Agency WADA, for example, has an annual budget of about 25 million dollars according to its own data. These are true peanuts in view of the turnover of various pharmaceutical industries, for example with the EPO preparation. In this respect, perhaps an idea that we could continue to pursue would be that institutions committed to the fight against doping should be able to engage in cooperation with potential doping agents manufacturers in the future. Ten. There would perhaps be a next legal step to regulate and verify cooperation between manufacturers, wholesalers and body to combat doping as early as possible. This might be an approach that can be pursued. The fact that professional sport has become a billion-dollar business and thus an economic factor, has added value, creates jobs and also makes a significant contribution to gross national product is undisputed. I do not need to mention the health aspect in this regard, as I believe, at all. The fact that sport, especially broadband, is also a talent for performance sports, but it needs investment, I believe, is also undisputed. For this reason, it is also a special concern to me that, in order to support sport, all relevant sources are given the opportunity to provide unbureaucratic and efficient assistance. Thank you very much, Secretary of State Harald Mahrer has announced a draft law in this regard, which is still to be presented this year, in order to promote civil society engagement. With this scheme, he wants to strengthen the financial commitment of private donors in the fields of science and research, social, cultural and humanitarian, and to make them more attractive in the future. You heard: Unfortunately, sport is lacking, although sport is in the leading group of activities for civil society, and it also has an important role to play in the education of individuals, as has already been said, in health, in integration and in the creation of value. In order not to forget this important role of sport in the reflections on the promotion of civil society engagement, I now make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is necessary, because without the support of the economy, sport is almost impossible nowadays. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e22282	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled has been properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e22346	As the next speaker, Mr. Federal Minister Mag. Smart to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e22369	Thank you very much, Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! Austria is internationally known for its pioneering role in the fight against doping. Since the last novel in 2009, we have one of the most stringent anti-doping laws in the world. In this context, I am particularly grateful to my predecessor as Minister of Sport Norbert Darabos for his tireless commitment. Dear Norbert, thank you very much! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] With 1. January comes into force the new World Anti-Doping Code, the WADA Code 2015. This changes the rules for anti-doping work worldwide. Austria will once again fulfil its pioneering role and has implemented these new conditions quickly. I would like to thank you very much for that. I am particularly pleased that, as it turns out, a 6-party agreement will succeed in this context, showing that Austria is also politically closed in the fight against doping and fraud in sport. The new law will make the fight against doping crime in Austria more targeted and efficient in the future. The focus is on combating doping networks. For this, two new acts were created: on the one hand, the complicity, not only the administration of doping agents, but also other things such as the guidance, concealment or active assistance will be interested in the future, as well as the “forbidden handling”, i.e. dealing in the course of the exercise of sports with caregivers who have already been transferred from doping. The rule lock will be increased from two to four years. Trainers and care staff are more involved in the focus of anti-doping work than before. In this context, sports organisations and professional associations must include appropriate regulations in their statutes and transfer them to their trainers. We will, of course, accompany the associations in the implementation of these innovations. A very central innovation, however, is also the composition of the National Test Pool. In the future, we will rely on so-called intelligent testing. It used to be the case that athletes from virtually all professional associations were found in the top test pool, i.e. Casting – sports anglers – was equated with cross-country skiing, just to give an example. In the future, NADA will introduce a risk analysis based on certain factors that determine the doping risk of a sport. In addition, the individual performance development of an athlete is also taken into account. On this basis, there will be two test pool segments: on the one hand, the top segment and, on the other, the base segment. In addition, in the top segment, athletes also have to expect them to be increasingly included in the blood pass programme in the future. We had 20 athletes in the blood pass program last year, this year it will be about 85, and next year we want to increase this part to 110. In addition, experience from NADA's work has also been included in the new provisions in order to lead the fight against doping even stronger and better in the future. New – and I believe that this is a very remarkable milestone – is judicial aid in the event of the failure of important witnesses to appear, which ultimately enables us to conduct a judicial inquiry. There will no longer be any manifestations in the future. Improvements have also been made in data protection law. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Not least, the Dürr case has shown that we are not yet in the fight against doping. With this law, Austria clearly shows that there is zero tolerance towards intentional doping. But I also wish – and I say so quite openly – that Europe and the world have a similar commitment as in Austria in the fight against doping. You all probably know the discussions that are currently being held in Germany. These remind me of our 2009 discussions. In my opinion, we have found a very good solution by expressly providing the qualification in the § 147 criminal code “heavy fraud by doping in sport”. You can continue to trust that I will continue my international commitment to the fight against doping at European level. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very much, on this occasion, for the broad support, also for the very constructive discussion in the Sports Committee in the interests of red and white-red sports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e22434	The next item is Mrs Gusenbauer-Jäger. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e22455	Madam President. Minister! High house! With the novelle, which stands for debate today, Austria is adapting its anti-doping process to international standards at large sporting events. Not only the public is always horrified when doping cases occur, but especially the athletes. This is also very good to understand, because those athletes who are clean should measure themselves with those who have screwed up their performance by any substance. That is why we can expect a great deal of approval today; it has already fallen a few times. I would like to draw up a number of essential points that change seriously. A clarification or extension of the area concerned was made with regard to the judicial criminal provisions, § 22a. The term ‘in sport’ has been ‘related to sports activities’. The Minister has already mentioned this. There is also an extension of the persons involved. For example, “in the case of athletes” is supplemented by “in the case of athletes or others”. This means that doping dealers can also be interested. The sale of doping substances to body builders for the purpose of muscle growth is also covered with this innovation. However, in order to avoid cases of hardness, the possibility of more flexible design is created in the event of permanent exclusion of budget resources or the repayment of grants. Finally, there were some cases where doping caused very severe or disproportionate punishment in the event of relatively minor wrongdoing. At the same time, the new regulation should make the participation in the investigation of doping errors more attractive. With this novel, Austria has fulfilled the essential requirements to comply with the World Anti-Doping Code 2015. We look forward to further clean sports competitions, where athletes do not take any health-damaging means! – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e22497	Next speaker: Mrs Jank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e22519	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Sport has a high priority in Austria for all age groups and for all levels of population. He's connecting. The achievements of our athletes, especially our top athletes – I add as President of the Austrian Disabled Sports Association: the achievements of our disabled athletes – are followed with great joy and are very important for the identity of our country. Sportsmen, especially those from the top range, are a model for many Austrians, especially for our youth. Doping not only damages this model function, but also the reputation of the sport as a whole and especially of course the top sport, because the spectators of sports events finally feel deceived by deaf athletes. But doping hurts first and foremost the health of athletes. Therefore, it is important to do everything or to take the right measures that doping has no place in us. But at the end of the day, when the sport is adapted, doping also harms the economy. Our tourism lives on the fact that we have excellent athletes, especially winter tourism, but of course also summer tourism. The fight against doping in sport is an important issue for us, so it was good and right and important that Austria continued its efforts in this regard. The Minister has already stated that we have a leading role in the anti-doping legislation and in its implementation that we are further developing this leading role in the implementation of this novel and are therefore still leading in the implementation of the anti-doping field. I am not going to carry out the individual points in detail now, but I already want to say that I think it is essential that data protection has also been improved in the anti-doping law. Then: Sportsmen have a lot of personal data to provide. Therefore, it is important that there is a right to delete these data if you get out of the test pool. That there is a special protection for data from minors seems to me to be particularly important. And with regard to the facts of complicity and forbidden handling, clarifications have been made that there must be no room for this in Austrian sport. With the amendment to the Anti-Doping Federal Act, ladies and gentlemen, not only is the necessary adaptation of the legal provisions to the WADA code, but also an adaptation of the process in the sense of Best Practice. The Anti-Doping Federal Act 2007 has up to now had an international role as a model, and we have now expanded and continued to practice this model function. Doping is self-confidence, but it is also foreign fraud equally and has lost nothing in sports where it is about fairness, honesty, joy, fun, team spirit and solidarity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e22562	The next item is the speech by Mr Wittmann. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e22583	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! The now present novel to the Anti-Doping Federal Act clearly shows that we are well placed with the original anti-doping federal law in 2007, namely to punish the environment of the athletes and to place more in the focus of the criminal provisions. The World Anti-Doping Code 2015 includes: In this respect, it is essentially new facts, which are the prohibition of handling and aid. In this context, it is to be said that we even had another act of “aid” in § 22b of the original anti-doping federal law. But it shows that the international trend is also going to punish the environment harder than the sportsman himself to criminalize, with criminalisation occurring only in the form of fraud, and there is also § 12, which includes the instigation and the aid. In other words, there is another punishment for the environment inside. This is essentially a confirmation of our way, that the environment of the athlete should be included in the punishment, because it administers, advises, or in any way provides assistance when it comes to doping. It is also worth mentioning that, from a legal point of view, it was right to keep the NADA and the Legal Commission closer apart in order to keep the prosecutor and the judge a little closer apart. But it does nothing if Austria has the most exemplary anti-doping law, if there are not many countries internationally that implement such anti-doping regulations. We know that, in the vicinity of Austria, in the southern part of Europe, the doping persecution takes place very effectively, with huge media accompaniment and house searches and with diverted athletes, but that the proceedings take five to seven years to condemn. That's exactly the time period that's over until the top sports career is over. Only after that do the condemnation and the blocking take place, but then a fight against doping is pointless. If this is not raised internationally to the same level on which our anti-doping law moves, then it is important for Austria, but the international sport will not be able to keep doping-free. Therefore, my appeal is that this right to circumvention should also be addressed at European level, because it cannot be negotiated for five years, and then, when the top sports career is over, the condemnation and the blocking take place if they do not meet anyone and do not produce any special or general preventive effect.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e22626	The next item is the speech by Mr Deputies on jewellery miners. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e22647	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Anti-doping laws and their implementation are not only a virtue, but also a duty. Especially in international sports, it is important to implement the WADA International Code in order not only to be able to hold international events with us, but also to be able to present us with a white vest especially in international sporting discussions. I mean, it is a principle of fairness – something that is quite, very important among athletes – that competitions can take place under the same conditions. However, it is also important that NADA, the control committee is acting with fairness as an authority towards the athletes and here is also a human image. It is necessary to put the house's mind ahead of official understanding, namely: In the sports world, we also need to take a closer look at how we deal with baptized athletes who have been caught, whether we really have to put all of them on the prange, and how we don't have to offer the chance to lead people back to the right path. But it is also crucial that: If we today celebrate the successes of our football team, if we know that we can celebrate some successes of our ski stars again in the coming winter season, then we also know that the enormous role models for youth and children in our country are. In particular, it is important that this model effect is not exercised with unfair means by working with prohibited substances, but that clean sports are performed, because our athletes are models for our youth, and for this we should use all our energy. That is why I am very grateful to the Minister for the fact that such a good legislative proposal is now before Parliament. It is also a good sign that six political groups agree with this bill. I think it is a bit a pity to hear from a political group some questionable statement from the committee that has already been quoted today. And it's particularly sad – better said: It may also show something! – if the NEOS are not even talking about a speech here. They seem to have already entered the working mode of their shavers, namely zero mode. But it may also be related to the lack of responsibility in dealing with prohibited substances here. This too is a party line, you have to accept it. The Greens are a lot clearer here. I would like to thank all those who have already given a speech on this very important subject.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e22686	The next item is the speech by Mr Antoni. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e22708	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister of Sports! The Austrian anti-doping federal law, which, as already mentioned, entered into force in 2007 and was subject to revision in 2009, is certainly one of the most stringent laws in the world. The first years of implementation have also resulted in some of the amendments to which my previous speakers have already addressed several times. I would like to go further into data protection in the fight against doping and mention in this context that improvements have already been made to better protect the rights of athletes. As examples of this, I would like to mention the special protection of the data of minors or the right to delete the data after withdrawal from the national test pool. However, there is still an open data protection problem that may affect all EU Member States. In concrete terms: the transmission and transfer of partially sensitive data from athletes specifically in the field of health to WADA, based in Montreal, Quebec Province, Canada, and to the international sports organisations through the ‘ADAMS’ notification system. In recent years, free of authorisation and the transmission of personal or sensitive data has been adopted on the basis of a decision of the EU Commission of 20 June. ==References== In this context, however, I would like to point out that, on the basis of this decision by the European Commission, authorisation-free transmission and transmission of this data is actually not possible, because WADA is based in Canada as a non-commercial body not the Canadian Federal Law on Persons and related information and electronic documents, but are likely to be subject to the so-called Quebec Act of the province of Quebec. However, from the perspective of the June 2014 Article 29 EU Data Protection Group, the data protection provisions of the Quebec Act do not appear to be sufficient to guarantee data protection for the data transmitted to the WADA. Therefore, the European Data Protection Supervisor now considers that it is time to determine the admissibility of approval-free transfers of personal or sensitive data of athletes to WADA in accordance with the Commission decision of December 2001 and also, where appropriate, the replies of the Canadian Federal or Provincial Authority by the European Commission. It is now up to the EU Commission to determine whether, on the basis of the Quebec Act, a reasonable level of data protection within the meaning of the Data Protection Directive 95/46/EC can be assumed and the sportsmen data can thus be transmitted to WADA free of approval. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, I think that a new decision by the European Commission is necessary not only in the sense of all EU Member States, but also in the sense of European sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e22762	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Darmann. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e22783	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Even though all the previous speakers from me and, in particular, the Federal Minister's analysis of the not too comprehensive but very fine novels of the Anti-Doping Federal Act 2007 have already been taken into account, it is appropriate to refer to the sensitivity of this particular issue, also briefly and fairly by the liberals. Ladies and gentlemen! On the one hand, it is natural to support – in summary – if we improve the law in force if, on the one hand, a better risk assessment takes place in the anti-doping law, Mr. Colleague, and on the other hand, there is also an individual risk assessment in the future that there is a more effective anti-doping check in Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Darabos]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It is also funny that here, especially from the field of SPÖ, amused calls come on a subject that is also appreciated by your Federal Minister. I am very surprised at the fact that you are still making fun of the issue of doping, because there has been a unanimous opinion in the Sports Committee, and these calls of yours, namely these disqualified calls of call, would not be absolutely necessary, even at this time, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] On the other hand, in addition to this new risk assessment, it is of course also advocating that there will be an improvement, acceleration and thus more effective process processes in the anti-doping process. No question: two very essential areas, which will also lead us to give our approval to this amendment, ladies and gentlemen! However, I also think it is far more important that, despite the fact that an hour later in the plenary session is being held today, I should like to say once again what it should be about when it comes to the achievement of sporting success and that it is absolutely positive as well. It should be noted to the liberals that there seems to be a fundamental consensus between all political groups. On the one hand, ladies and gentlemen, it is the goal of a sportsman who successfully pursues his sport and, as a result, not only leads the top sport into new dimensions, but also presents the role model for broadband and, in particular, for our youth, to achieve this goal, which must be underpinned by the corresponding willpower, with the appropriate training zeal and with the corresponding fitness, this goal of sporting success. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] When I quote these terms, I assure them again that all these values – determination, willpower, training zeal and fitness, combined with fairness – should be free of doping! This is, of course, also an extreme challenge for us as a legislator and for all those who are behind it to prevent this doping, because with each of our regulations and with every attempt to get the doping to the syllables, new procedures and techniques are being developed to deal with fair sports. That is why it is also a lasting task for us to keep our eyes and ears open and to support all the institutions and all the personalities who have committed themselves to the service against doping and abuse through us legislators. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e22859	The next item is the speech by Mr Schellhorn. I would like to draw your attention to this: 1 minute of your group's remaining speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e22880	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you are making yourself particularly noticeable by always thinking about NEOS, you and my friend smoking. I should like to draw your attention to this: We will grow the beard, it will grow for a long time until you finally start a reform! You have had 10,000 days to do something in the Doping Act. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] You have had 10 000 days to launch a reform. I'm saving the water because you need the hair gel. Just leave us alone! Make a successful policy, instead of you having to deal with us, that's far failed.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e22922	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want the final word? - That's not the case. We shall come to the vote on the draft law in 320 of the supplements. Mr Hiezu has tabled an amendment tabled by Mr Kristi, Mr Rauch, Mr Darmann, Mr Brosz, Mr Weggenstorfer, Mr Alm, Mr Colleagues concerning Mr Z6. Since there is only one motion for a resolution, we shall immediately vote on the draft law and the title and receipt of the draft government proposal, taking account of the amendment tabled by Members Kristi, Rauch, Darmann, Brosz, Refuserstorfer, Alm, colleagues. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who advocate a sign of acknowledgment. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – That is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Rejectors, colleagues and colleagues on the promotion of civil society involvement in the field of sport. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. [[21:57:09]] 8. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Daniela Musiol, colleagues concerning a federal law with which the Childcare Act (KBGG), as amended by the BGBl. I No. 103/2001, as last amended by BGBl. I No. 35/2014, amended (676/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e22999	We're on the 8th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll give it to you with this. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e23026	Madam President. – It is a shame that the Minister is going, because at least private matters are related to him. [[Federal Minister Klug is raised by the government bank.]] This is about a child care allowance application, namely the question of whether and how to change the child allowance variant. This is a subject that has been working on us for a long time. ==References== January 2014 it was like this: You know, we have five different child-money variants, which is very complex. In order to know which variants they want to choose, people now need tax or other consultants who will calculate the best for them. This is about merit, but of course it is also about duration. ==References== January 2014 it was not possible to change the variant once the child money was applied for, even if you had been wrong. I submitted a request in 2012. At first, this one was not necessarily opposed, but the then responsible minister Mitterlehner said at some point quite clearly that he did not actually see why one should not be able to correct an error. At that time, this amendment was reviewed with other amendments to the Childcare Money Act. The reform included the possibility of changing up to two weeks after the application. At the time of the review, we have already said, but also many other institutions taking an opinion: Well, two weeks from the date of application, it is not really practical because many people may not have chosen the wrong one until they get a confirmation of the local health insurance scheme on the relationship they now have to them. You have to imagine this: You go online, fill out a form online, and then you get a confirmation that you have applied for the child's money, but the confirmation doesn't include what you have requested. That is, only when you receive the confirmation from the local health insurance fund, on which is black on white, how much money is due to you, can you see – if you have not noticed it before – that a mistake has failed. These confirmations usually last longer than two weeks. That means, already at the time, several have pointed out: It would be useful for these two-week period of delivery of the confirmation and not even after submission of the application. We have also pointed out, and also many others, across the bank, scurry from which direction: Catholic family association, union union and many more have said that you should actually do it differently. At that time, however, no majority was to be found, so now the two-week deadline applies from the date of application. However, we now have the problem that there are still people who fall for money in child care because they are only sent to the confirmation after these two weeks and only afterwards notice their error. I have asked the Minister how many cases are known to have taken advantage of this change within the two weeks. That was 184 cases since 1. January 2014; I think that is not so few. I also asked her how many could not change anymore, because they had noticed it too late, and the Minister's answer was: Unfortunately, one cannot see that there is no human resources to determine this. – I think this is very questionable once, when it comes to looking at whether there is a problem that you want to solve. My request and reply were then taken up medially, and after these media reports I received again numerous addresses from parents who said: We are just the ones who are not among these 184, but who only came up with a lot later that they made a mistake. For example, here's a family: ==References== ==References====External links== November 2014 only came the confirmation – that is, much too late – and they only came up with the fact that they made a mistake, but they couldn't change anymore. What this family has written us – and also many other families – is that it is about a lot of money. All the families that have written to us are about the mistake between the 12 + 2 package variant and the income-dependent child care allowance, and the amount that these families lose because they have erred is € 1,000 per month. That is to say, for the entire period of child care allowance, this is up to €10 000! I think this is not worthy of a country that otherwise upholds legal protection, which otherwise also makes mistakes improve. In any other administrative procedure, there is the possibility of making improvements if an error is committed. I think you have to do that here, too, because it is socially unbearable. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Finally, I would like to quote a paragraph from an e-mail that has been sent to me by a affected family: In the course of the birth of a child, you have many different things to deal with. It can't be that, precisely at this time, a supposed individual error will prevent a large part of the state support that is available to one of our laws in our country. - Quote. I don't think there's anything to add to it.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e23114	The next item is Mrs Lueger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e23136	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Musiol, you yourself have quoted the answer to your parliamentary question, in which the Minister replied that 184 persons at this time area of 1. Years to 11. September 2014 changed their child care allowance variant once again. That's not so many now, because the total is 0.4 percent of those who have applied for it – 0.4 percent! I would also like to point out what Mrs Minister wrote in her reply to her question, namely that she sees no reason to make a legislative amendment in view of the small number of mutual parents. It also refers to the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court. I do not want to say that we should not discuss this. We will, of course, do that in the Committee. However, I would also like to add an additional reference, namely that we are now discussing the fact that child care money in all its five variants is far too difficult and far too complicated. That is why we are already discussing a child care account, and then the question arises: Then does it bring something else to change, don't it? But we will discuss this in detail in the Committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e23175	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Nice to meet you. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e23196	Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! As has already been said by my two previous speakers: The revision of the Childcare Money Act in 2013 provided for the possibility for parents to apply for a one-time variation within 14 days of the first application. Freshly baked parents – I think we agree – are often slightly overwhelmed with the situation at the beginning. In particular, this applies to very young parents, who are also grateful to God. That is why I believe that the fitness of this 14-day-frist should actually be subject to a review. That is why a working group in the Ministry has been working on this subject since October. The results of this working group will certainly have to be discussed in detail in the Committee, because I believe it is extremely important that parents, especially young parents, receive the help they need in order to enable their children to get the best start in life. It doesn't mean for nothing, children are our future: They determine the way our society will go in the future. Where this path will lead depends very decisively on what opportunities we give our children. In this sense, I am the only man in this debate looking forward to a good discussion in the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e23227	Mrs Kitzmüller has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e23248	I think that this request made by the Green Party is a very good one. We can join this very well, even if I hear that the socialist party says that 184 families are not enough to change something. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It was only 184 that my previous speaker said. – It is every single family that concerns it to one too much that falls around here something you are entitled to! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But there is indeed, if we have 184 here, a dark number of which we have heard of which we do not even know, namely the number of those who could not change it anymore, because they had overlooked the deadline. I believe that we must be very careful about this. the improvement of each family – regardless of whether it is 184 or just three or four families. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] When I look at how families are treated here, that a law has been made here, which has been improved within a very short time, and now we note that the improvement was only marginal, that one must say again, it has not been brought out for the families the optimum, then, I must honestly say, I am very skeptical if this childcare account is to come, which we have to make new changes back in the shortest time! If we look at this child care account, then I believe that there is a great danger that we will drop the long-term model, these 30 + 6 months. I must say that every family should have the opportunity to actually choose the model she wants. Above all, we insist that this long-term model remains, in order to say that clearly again, but above all that in this long-term model also the protection of termination and all the things that do not fit together at all, are changed and brought to the state of the legal requirements that the families have. Therefore, this request finds our agreement, although I know that it will be a hard work to convince the government parties that there is a real need for action when it comes to our families and the future of our children, which of course needs to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e23308	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. I accept the request 676/A to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. The agenda is exhausted. [[22:09:09]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-19-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00049_d7e23342	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 764/A(E) to 787/A(E) have been tabled at today's meeting. Questions 3068/J to 3079/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 10:10 p.m., which is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
