ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e4494	Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would ask you to take your seats and ensure that I can open the session, because I will open the meeting. I should like to welcome Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Dr Heinz Fischer, in our midst. [[General condolences.]] I also warmly welcome my predecessor, the former president of the National Council Dr. Andreas Khol. [[General condolences.]] ==References====External links== Meeting of 24. In April 2014, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. As prevented, MEPs are reported ing. Lugar and Steger. [[10:02:17]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e4552	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text:
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e4907	I announce that the meeting will be held from ORF 2 to 1 p.m. and from ORF III in full length. [[10:02:34]] Application in accordance with § 69 para. 3 GOOD
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e4928	It is my request according to § 69 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure to take the government documents relating to the Federal Financial Laws 2014 and 2015 together with investments (50 and 51 of the Supplements) at first reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Recovery of the request for the implementation of a first reading
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e4953	The applicants have withdrawn the request for a first reading: Question 203/A by Dr Nikolaus Scherak, Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, Agenda item 30, Question 204/A by Dr Matthias Strolz, Members, Agenda item 31. Question No 346/A by Dr Nikolaus Scherak, Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, Agenda item 32, That is why the debate on these agenda items is not going to take place, and I will make the allocation of the respective requests to the committees. Request for a brief debate on the response to the question 819/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e4990	Before entering the agenda, I would like to say that, according to § 92 of the Rules of Procedure, there is a desire to hold a brief debate on the reply 819/AB to Question No 905/J by Dr Scherak, colleagues on data leak in student tests by the Federal Minister for Education, Arts and Culture. This brief debate takes place in accordance with § 57a para. 4 Rules of Procedure after completion of the agenda, but at the latest at 3 p.m. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e5011	The debate on points 2 and 3, 4 and 5, 11 and 12, 13 to 17, 20 to 23 and 28 and 29 of the agenda is proposed. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. We are going into the agenda with this. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e5036	Consensus was reached between the members of the Presidential Conference on the duration and organisation of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 9 ‘Vienna hours’ was agreed, so that: Reasoning times are as follows: SPÖ and ÖVP each 122 minutes, FPÖ 113, Green 95 and Stronach and NEOS each 50 minutes. The following statement was agreed for the joint discussion on TOP 2 and 3 during the direct broadcast in ORF 2: a round with 7 minutes each, a member of government ÖVP 7 minutes, a member of government SPÖ 5 minutes and then two rounds each with 5 minutes. The order depends on the strength of the political groups. The President-in-Office/Chairman shall, after consultation with the club members at the latest before the beginning of the final round, distribute the term of office remaining for the last round to the six political groups at the same time. Actual corrections are only called after the end of the television period. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give him the consent to a sign on this point. – This is unanimously accepted. [[10:06:07]] 1. Point Declaration by the Federal Minister for Finance on the Government’s templates concerning the Federal Financial Laws for the years 2014 and 2015 together with investments
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e5090	We'll get to the 1st. Agenda item. I give the floor to Mr Vice-Chancellor and Federal Minister for Finance to give the statement. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e5114	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office! Madam President of the National Council! Estimated government members! My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Ladies and gentlemen on the galleries and in front of the TV screens! In our country of the mountains there is a mountain too much, that is the debt mountain. [[Abg. Kogler: Super Gag!]] This is the mountain that grows and grows and grows. It can't go on like this! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] That is why the budgetary policy of this government is well aware of, and that is why, as Minister of Finance, I have a great objective for this period: to put an end to debt in this period, ladies and gentlemen. That's the goal! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In 2014, this debt mountain will reach a new peak through the Hypo, so we have to launch the trend turnaround. The 2014 and 2015 budgets, which I present to the House today, provide the way for us to achieve a structural zero deficit from 2016 onwards. With these two budgets we will lay the foundation for a “close with new debts!” and this is an important goal because it also means a trend change in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Why is that so important? – With steadily rising debt, the burden of interest and repayments is increasing and the margin in the budget is getting smaller and smaller. With debt made today, the taxes of tomorrow and the day after tomorrow are justified, and ultimately financial prosperity, which is financed by debt today, becomes a burden on children and children. We do not want to do so, so it will be the objective of this government and my aim as Minister of Finance to permanently launch this trend change in Austria from 2016 onwards. In a first part, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to address general questions relating to the budget and, in particular, the discussions that exist. I'm starting with what's the biggest burden on us, that's the Hypo Alpe-Adria, that's the biggest financial scandal in this Republic. The debt level will increase by €17.8 billion in 2014 and the deficit will increase by €4 billion in 2014. A lot of people get mad at it, me and everyone who has taken place here on the government bank today, especially, but I ask you to also consider one thing: The fault is to look for those who have caused this, and not for those who are now working out the problem and trying to solve it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] Once again, I would like to bring this already quoted example of the fire brigade: The fire brigade is not to blame for the damage, but the arsonist must be found, ladies and gentlemen! [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Kickl]] And this is particularly true of the hypo, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz:... the water damage is greater than...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] We do with this 2014 budget but also pure table. The Maastricht deficit will rise, but despite hypo, it will remain below the 3-percent mark. Despite all these burdens, we will remain at 2.7% Maastricht deficit. In spite of these budgets, we will be going into the future with a large burden package in terms of government debt – over 79 percent – but with this one-time increase in government debt we will reduce it once again year after year, ladies and gentlemen, and this is important in order to really signal a trend change. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] In order to create this turnaround, everyone has to make a contribution, that is not a question at all, and we have to ask all Austrians for an understanding of this – and here, as Minister of Finance, I have to ask for it. We are turning on many screws here – with the citizen, with the administration, with all those in this country who are contributing to them – but we do not put the air on anyone, ladies and gentlemen, in order to say that clearly. We don't want that and we won't do it either! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Let me also look at what is being discussed in this context: the question of tax reform. [[Abg. Kogler: After super!]] – If we want to reverse the trend if we need to work out hypo taxes, there is little room in 2014 and 2015 for a great relief from the working people in this country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] But with these two budgets, we want to take a path that can lead to a tax reform during this period, and that is why it should be underlined once again that this is the basic condition for this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Tax reform means: To create scope now means not to finance with new debts. But there are also unforeseen crises, and I am particularly addressing all this about Ukraine and Russia, which is burdening us today. This too must not lead us to lose this room again, so that we have discussed this with each other today in the Council of Ministers, everything must be contributed to de-escalation. The objective therefore remains clear. I would like to end these two budgets by investing wisely and also by starting reforms. These are the first steps on our way to boost growth, thus creating the basis for new jobs and prosperity in Austria. We are investing there, ladies and gentlemen, where we are convinced that Austria needs impulses, and we are saving wherever we can answer. And the impulses can be seen: Family focus – more money for the future of the country – on research – we are expanding basic research – and for greater security – we will also have more police officers in this country who provide law and order – at the economic location – there will also be discharges for entrepreneurs – and the social state will be insured. Additional resources for care and the fight against unemployment are the basic programme of this Federal Government. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Let me now also make the international comparison, which we must make especially in times of crisis: As Austria, have we managed the crisis well? – Yes, we have built up government debt – a 13 percent increase in gross domestic product in Austria from 2007 to 2013 – but then we look at what the Member States of the European Union, the EU-28, have done in the comparative period: They have built up a debt of 31 percent. So we stand at less than half as far as government debt is concerned, when compared with the European Union. A good testimony that Austria has managed this crisis well. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] And there is also a clear comparison on the question of the economic power of each individual citizen. If you look at the gross domestic product per capita by purchasing power parity, Austria is already number 2 in the European Union. That is, we are the second-richest country in this European Union – despite times of crisis. This is also a positive value that we must also make people aware of in these comparative periods. Do we see that we can now really see first positive signs of optimism at our economic location? – There are first positive signs! In 2013, 36 900 new companies were founded in Austria. In 2013, 319,000 new cars were purchased, which is 25,000 more than before the crisis. [[Abg. Kogler: And 3 700 vacuum cleaners!]] This shows that there is some optimism. And I say that we as the Federal Government and I as Minister of Finance must also strengthen this optimism and give the citizens the feeling that it is going up again with Austria! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Let us, ladies and gentlemen, also compare economic growth: 2013 0.4 percent – that wasn't much –, 2014 a plus of 1.7 percent; in 2015, Wifo predicts that. If we compare this with the eurozone, there is a value of 1.2 percent for these two years. So we are also above the averages of the other countries. This means that careful optimism in growth is justified. But, ladies and gentlemen, there is no liberation. Step by step, we need to get out of this crisis, so it is necessary to lay the foundations of it even with a good budget. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] When we look at the labour market, there are dire signals there. The starting value of 5.2 percent for unemployment in Austria is twice as good as in the European Union – there it is 10.7 percent – but 319,000 people who are unemployed, and 83,000 in training, which is a negative record. That's a trend that's rising. On the other hand, we have 3.47 million people in employment in mid-March 2014, as many as never before. That is to say, the prospects given this basic data – on the one hand, that unemployment will remain high, even rise, on the other hand, but also increase employment; on the other hand, we expect a 1% increase in employment or 81,000 jobs over the next two years – are just the dire signals we see in this situation. That is why we have set a special focus, based on active labour market policy. In 2014, €2.45 billion will be used for this, €2.50 billion in 2015. And we are increasing the funds especially for older unemployed people. This year we will spend € 320 million more on integrating older unemployed and € 118 million in 2015. As the Federal Government, we are not satisfied that Austria has the lowest unemployment in the EU comparison, we want to pursue a goal: Once again, it is possible to get back to full employment, because every job secures a family. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Let me also say something about the location Austria! – There is also an inconsistency: On the one hand, we have lost one place on the question of employment and the lowest unemployment rate, and on other rankings we have fallen back. Consider the ranking of this year's World Economic Forum: We are at 16th place in the competitiveness among 148 states – we are particularly pleased that we are good at innovation, in business processes and in their course of operation, in infrastructure – but in 2008 we were already in place 14. We are exposed to a particular competitive situation, we know – other regions of the world are booming much stronger than we are, we have an ageing society, not only in Austria, but in Europe as a whole has its problems – but we also have opportunities that we can solve ourselves. We can deal with all matters of flexibility as regards the high additional wage costs. That is why we have also decided, with savings, that we want to send relevant signals to the economy with these two budgets. As of 2016, the company tax will be abolished, more flexible working hours will be in the programme, in the case of additional wage costs we have carried out a first reduction, we shall follow further, and the bureaucracy in the enterprises will also be pushed back. This year alone, four agents will be removed so that businesses do not have such a bureaucratic burden. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] In order to reduce the deficit, of course, we must do everything we can to boost growth accordingly. This will permanently help us bring Austria back forward. A word on the financial centre: Like other countries, we have our special problems with problem banks. Hypo is in all mouths. Other countries, such as Germany, had much higher burdens to vote. One of our member countries in the European Union, the Netherlands, has similar problems to ours. We must therefore also stabilise the financial area. We will provide €4.4 billion in this budget – a huge amount that is not fully spent, but at least statistically planned for all cases. How high the losses at the hypo will really be, we will end up holding in an account. But, ladies and gentlemen, there is also a signal that is positive: ==References== In January 2016, the European rules for the resolution of banks will be in force, then the financial sector itself will make sure that, through this own resources share that they have to put into the resolution unit, Marode banks will face up to the problems and no longer the taxpayers – and that is good and right, that is a right rule, a Lesson learned from the financial problems. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Now it pays the taxpayer! That's how it looks!]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler.]] Let me now refer in a second part to the financial base of Austria, which is linked to these two budgets! First of all, public debt: In 2013, we had a government debt share, a ratio of 74.5 percent. Through the hypo it will be 79.2 percent this year. There, too, the average value of the European Union is 89.7% far above that. In 2015, we will drop this share of 79.2 to 77.6 again and will remain at 75.6 percent in 2016. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the outlook: a clear trend down in public debt too! If we didn't have the hypo, we'd be much further today than that actually is. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Wouldn't you have nationalized!]] And despite all these difficulties, we still have the Triple A with two of the three international credit rating agencies. Moody’s is only available on 28 May. In February, the prospect of ‘negative’ being ‘stable’ was set. I can quote why Moody’s even made this assessment of Austria: Healthy economic structures and stability-oriented macroeconomic policies are crucial. 28. ==References== - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is still one of the best addresses for the financial world, and this is not an undeserved happiness, but a result of the consistent government work that we do in this regard too! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Our interest rates are low as never before, we have now reached a value for a ten-year federal bond of 1.75 percent. This can actually be seen, but we don't just want to pay any more interest in the future, we want the money available to people again, so effort is necessary. When we come to the key data for deposits/disbursements, there were 2014 deposits with a value of 72.19 billion, payouts with a value of 75.76 billion – a minus of 3.6 billion. In the following year, in 2015, the balance amounts to 3.2 billion. Deposits of 71.5 billion are compared with payments of 74.7 billion. The Maastricht deficit, with the one-time result of 2.7 in 2014, will again fall to 1.4 in 2015. And the structural deficit, ladies and gentlemen, the standard today in the European Union, will be 1 percent in 2014, 0.9 percent in 2015. These are key data that can also be seen in the European comparison. We can be proud that we can do this with these two budgets too! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] On the basis of these figures, however, you also see that we are saving accordingly in the expenditure of the State, in absolute terms. The 2014 payouts of 75 billion, 2015 of 74 billion show yes: We also reduce in absolute terms what the state is spending on. [[Abg. Kickl: The Minister of Defense can sing a song of it!]] We also have a commitment in the European Union, which we of course also fulfil. How do we achieve this goal? – It takes three steps to really implement this goal. First of all, we save in the administration. I would like to see more for each Austrian, so that the state has to confine itself to its core tasks. [[Abg. Rossmann: tax reduction!]] In the context of all the departments and their ministers, I am grateful that they have also contributed to the fact that in 2014 we will be able to save 500 million in discretionary expenditure, by 300 million in 2015. This forces reforms, but we do not save the country broken, we save the state slim. That's the motto we're going to do. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We will therefore have to carry out appropriate changes in all individual departments, which will not be saved from anyone. On the occasion, however, I would also like to thank all public officials and the representatives of pensioners because they also contribute to the structural saving of salaries and pensions by means of a large increase in incomes and pensions. – Thank you for that! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Saving in the administration is one thing. The other is also the tax-change law. Yes, we have also made corresponding changes in taxes. Therefore, expenditure will be cut short in order to achieve these sustainable savings. We know, however, that is not the case from today to tomorrow, that is why, in order to maintain our structures in the state, we must offer citizens an understanding that tax gaps are being closed, that exceptions are abolished, that we also have to make a contribution with an increase in the tax on insurance and environmental steering measures. Yes, I know this is not a pleasant task, and we are not doing everything perfectly, but we are putting forth great effort to distribute the necessary burdens justly, and I believe that this has also been achieved by the tax-change law. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The third cornerstone, ladies and gentlemen, next to the savings of the resorts, next to the taxes, are reforms. The reform path will continue. We know very well that much has already been forgotten about what we started in 2012 – with a reform path up to 2016. However, the effectiveness of the various measures will only enter into force once and for all, I should like to mention them once again. The often required pension reform: What did we do? - With 1. January 2014 changes are taking place in the long-term insurance scheme, i.e. the famous hackler pension is available two years later. ==References== January 2014 there is no longer a fixed-term I-pension below 50 – enter into force at the beginning of the year, we already see first effects. We have introduced the pension account as a step towards transparency that everyone also has an overview of his acquired retirement periods. And we made some changes at the corridor board. I therefore assume that the average age of retirement will rise from 58.5 years to 60.1 years until 2018. This too is a trend change, because for the first time, the actual age of entry will rise more than life expectancy. But that's right, because we need a decent and well-functioning labour market in the future, and we need to secure pensions. Both are necessary so that we can manage well in the future. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I can remind you: We have made an administrative reform – and not just talked about it. The asylum authorities alone had 194 posts. With 1. In January 2014, there is a Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum. We have brought everything together, we have made a change to the administrative courts, which is the biggest reform in the administration of the Second Republic. 11 independent administrative courts have become independent of 120 non-wisdom-free Senates and authorities. We have concentrated this, and we see this effect this year. We put together parts of the district courts. We have made a lot of changes in the administration, including in the police. Ladies and gentlemen, in times when everyone needs to tighten the belt, the state has to go ahead with a good example and focus on its core tasks, for hard work is not the time. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Arbitrator.]] In the health reform – and I would like to mention this in particular – we have all forgotten it again in 2012 we stated that public health expenditure is limited to the growth of gross domestic product. With this cover there is a financial effect, until 2016 we will save €3.4 billion, without any good health care in Austria. That's how you do it: Don't save in the administration, but we have to set trends that we change structures in such a way that people don't have negative effects, but have effects in the administration! [[Call the FPÖ: “Don’t save with the administration”?- Oh, my God!]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We will also provide for reform projects in the future; our task is far from complete. With this budget we will preserve good, but some will improve. We want to push the bureaucracy back, we have very concrete plans to do so. Let me give you a few examples. In support reform, we have a principle, which is the transparency database. However, the double tracks must now be removed piece by piece. If associations of foreign Austrians currently receive funding from the Ministry of the Interior, from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, from the federal states such as Burgenland and Styria, this is beautiful, but de facto not what we imagine in the administration. A job should be promoted! On the subject of transport safety: There, too, the Ministry of Infrastructure and all the federal states are promoting. We need to think about this so that we can find clear, transparent support pyramids in the future. Business service portal, another example: As of 2018, I would like us to allow companies to process and process almost everything in an electronic way, from the foundation of the company to the registration and cancellation of employees in social security to the submission of funding applications. If we advance this electronic handling, we will turn at the right places and also save in the administration. Or let me call you the office of the Federal Government: We have planned it in our government programme, we want to make the administration of the administration more efficient, not every ministry must do all this in its own presidential section. The topic of wage accounting: There are too many exceptions. It is not to be seen that there are 400 different contribution groups, so we are also seeking harmonisation of ASVG and income tax law, because it is difficult to explain that drink money is exempt from income tax, but is seen as a share of wages in social security. We must also change that and unite it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But I hear that all these measures will again be too few, the critics will explain to us that the savings of the individual departments in discretionary expenditure, in the tax-amendment law, all this cannot be achieved. We have also made provision for us to go through with all the departments already in the middle of the year, how the budget implementation is going to be done so that we can also set up the controlling at the right time and ensure that the budget implementation is a more stringent one and that at the end of the year we will also be able to do what we have done. I will strictly respect every tax euro of the Austrians and ensure that the tax money is handled with care. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! However, we will not only save, we have also provided for an offensive package in these two budgets. The achievement of the zero deficit and the reduction of interest rates are the first steps others are to invest wisely in order to move towards economic growth, towards boosting work and prosperity. These impulses and offensive measures provide for an amount of €3.6 billion from 2014 to 2018. We therefore do not pursue a pure policy of savings, but we are going on according to the principle: Save and invest properly! I would like to introduce the following measures: € 400 million by 2018 in day care, 350 million by 2017 for the expansion of childcare facilities, 180 million housing special funds 2015 to 2018. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] I may add that we have provided in the tax-amending law that entrepreneurs can also make a contribution if they invest in housing bonds with the profit-free amount. We expect an amount of € 300 million to go to the housing bonds and thus to the residential building – a good signal for the boosting of the residential building. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[New call of the abg. Moser.]] For the family aid, 828 million more will be available in 2014 to 2018. For the care money and the 24-hour care there is a plus of 311 million in this period. With regard to rural areas, after the negotiations with the European Union, we have foreseen that there will be €470 million in offensives for rural areas – and this is also absolutely necessary, ladies and gentlemen, for development to take place there too. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Away from the blackwork, € 30 million craftsman bonus are demands that have also come from the companies. On the topic of flood protection: Everyone has already forgotten that a year ago a flood disaster hit Austria. We will invest 462 million € in flood protection 2014 to 2018. We will invest in basic research because it is important to us to invest another 300 million from 2016, and the dental health fund will also be fed with 260 million in 2014 to 2018 in order to make dental clamps manageable for the families. So, ladies and gentlemen, this is a large, intensive package that we have planned for offensive measures. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] So let me come to a third part as regards the individual departments and the priorities we are looking for there! I start with the families very consciously, because children are the future of our country, and we have to invest in it very much. Creating a family-friendly environment is therefore the first priority, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The new Federal Ministry of Family Affairs and Youth will have €6.8 billion in 2014 and €7.02 billion in 2015. These are payouts in 2014, which are 235 million higher than in the year before. This benefits children and parents in the form of a long-necessary increase in the family allowance, with the 1. July we will increase them by 4 percent and twice during this period – that is about 830 million more for the families in this period. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We must not forget that the decision to raise children has very basic material consequences. That's where the state can support it, and that's where it's supposed to be. Our goal must be that living with children no longer – even thoughtfully – leads to getting to the poverty line. This must be excluded for the future. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] On the other hand, we will also try to improve the compatibility of family and work, so we will provide € 350 million for the expansion of childcare facilities. To ensure that every child also has the optimal entry into school, we provide €70 million for a free kindergarten year. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Let me come to the pensions: Just as important as the children are also their grandparents. To emphasize this is therefore a special concern, because more and more frequent discussions involve sounds where the generations are being played against each other. We don't want to do that. The people who have come to the years also have a right to be properly protected. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The burden of the State budget on pension subsidies is enormous, yes. In 2014, we will take control of € 10.2 billion for pensions, around 400 million more than in the previous year. In 2015, it is €10.7 billion. In addition, the 6.69 billion in 2014 and 6.98 billion in 2015 are needed as net financing for officials' pensions. These contributions rise because we are an ageing society. But I would like to stress once again that a moderate pension adjustment under the 2014 inflation rate has also contributed accordingly. Thank you again to the pensioners and pensioners! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We also call on the people involved in luxury pensions in the chambers, in the National Bank, in the ORF, to make a clear contribution to solidarity in many other institutions. These pension measures result in a budget relief of € 7.1 million per year. That too must be held. We know that much has to change over time so that the entire pension system is not threatened. I should like to mention once again that we have put a great deal in the direction of changing the pension system in such a way that future developments do not take place. And we will also have to do this in the future, because the pension burden rate will continue to rise in the next few years. In 2013 1 000 compulsory insured 618 pensions were paid, in 2018 it will already be 625. But, ladies and gentlemen, especially from the opposition, we will not, as some of you ask, put the system on the head with an unimaginable wing blow. This is irresponsible, irresponsible to the people concerned, who have a right to protection even in old age. And that's what we're standing for. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Let me go to work and social matters: Each new job also means security for another family. [[Abg. Kickl: That would be nice!]] The fight against unemployment is therefore a very decisive concern for us. We invest €2.45 billion in 2014, €2.50 billion in active and activating labour market policies to reduce unemployment. A total of €7 billion is planned for the labour market this year and €7.1 billion in 2015. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there must also be some experience in the labour market. That is why we place a very special emphasis on older workers. 370 million € are targeted at the second labour market, but also for the integration of those who are particularly difficult. We also make continuous efforts in care. This area will present us with special challenges, both financially and organisationally. In 2014 we met with 2,489 billion €, 2015 with 2,512 billion € for the care money advance. But without the right political decisions, which are also supported by humanity, we will not be able to deal with the problem of care in the future. However, we have succeeded in re-establishing an area, and that is a good area, which is a care-care allowance. Support does not cost too much, 2014 € 4.5 million, 2015 € 5 million. But with this, anyone who wants to care for his family can also be sure that he will not lose his job in this care work. And that must be worth it to us, ladies and gentlemen, for the future. The family also have a right to do something for their family members. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Health: Medical progress is getting more expensive and more expensive, but we need to make reforms especially in the structures, in the health insurance sector, in order to get rid of the figures. In 2014 we take care of around €953 million for the health sector. Even in difficult times, the benefits are not to be reduced, but are to be expanded, such as in the free accompanying and consulting of mothers by midwives. As of 2015, the Federal Ministry of Health will also be able to issue an amount for jaw regulation for children and young people. We have set up a dental health fund for this. For this purpose, € 260 million will be foreseen by 2018. And that's good and right, because it's not supposed to fail that you can't afford a tooth regulation, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Let me turn to the economy, especially to the companies: We can only manage our well-developed social state if we return to growth impulses for the economy. Yes, we have good structures, we have a social partnership that has established itself as a proven instrument for years. We have strong, innovative companies. We also have very well-trained workers. All of this, however, is accompanied by an international ever-increasing competition. We will set some priorities in this regard. The Ministry of Economic Affairs supports entrepreneurs with €360 million in 2014, with €364 million in 2015. But the way will be to get away from the promotions and come to discharges. We have already decided to reduce additional wage costs, thus starting a trend change. We reduce accident insurance and insolvency remuneration funds contributions by 0.1 percent each and thus relieve the companies of €200 million annually. Further reductions must be the objective. We'll have to work them out. Every other job depends on export. We know that. That is why we continue the internationalization offensive with around €13 million per year. By taking over the additional liabilities for the Austrian hotel and tourism bank, €100 million more is going into the tourism industry, and that is good because we are a popular tourist country, and that is what we want to remain in the future. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] For the employees, € 165 million per year is spent on apprenticeship training. And of course we also need prospects for young people. That's why we set the training guarantee until the 18th century. Continue to live. The backbone of our economy is the small and medium-sized enterprises. They make up 90 percent of our companies. We have a craftsman bonus, which is to be set up there, that the small and medium-sized enterprises do not slip into the blackwork, but that they also have something of it. This is a control option that we have planned with €30 million for 2014 and 2015 in order to advance a recovery in the regional economy in particular. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I would like to mention the housing: 180 million € more we spend as a union in this period. In addition, the more than €300 million from the investment in residential bonds is due to the changes in the profit-free amount. I am therefore convinced that this will also provide us with more funds for the future of the supported housing. This, of course, also benefits the construction companies, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] So I'm going to the infrastructure. We need a functioning infrastructure, every citizen as well as the economy. In the field of transport, innovation and technology, disbursements also increase by € 221 million compared with 2013 to € 3.17 billion in 2014 and € 3.35 billion in 2015. Yes, the ÖBB are expensive. But they also have to be expensive, because this is the environmentally friendly transport for people and for goods. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Therefore, in addition to the legally fixed payments, funds for an infrastructure offensive in rail transport also flow. But the remaining transport infrastructure will also be further modernised. Measures to increase road safety are planned. Especially important in the sense of a solidarity community are the additional resources for the expansion of flood protection, for example in the Eferdinger Basin. A total of €40 million in 2014, €35 million in 2015. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I come here to agriculture and forestry. Of course, solidarity with those affected by natural disasters also has a strong impact on the budget in the chapter on agriculture, forestry and water management. As of 2014, the action programme “High Water Safety Austria” will receive around €61 million, which will increase to €200 million a year. And we also planned €50 million in the disaster fund for the removal of drought damage, including a problem of last year. Those who are in distress can also contribute to the solidarity of the state, ladies and gentlemen. That is what we have foreseen in the budgets. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Agriculture therefore has 2.23 billion in 2014 and 2.14 billion in 2015. Rural development in particular is the main concern, because, of course, we all live by the fact that farmers are still ready to do this work, and that is good and right. Those who want good food must also promote the farmers in Austria, ladies and gentlemen! This is a principle that we are also standing on. [[It was in favour of ÖVP and SPÖ, as well as of representatives of the FPÖ.]] We will therefore also provide additional budget resources of € 470 million for rural development by 2018. To the environment: Consolidation pressure is great, but we still have to make efforts for the environment. For environmental agendas, €639 million are planned for 2014, €621.5 million in 2015. Reducing greenhouse gas emissions, increasing the use of renewable energy, these are also priorities in the environmental sector for these two years. And I can add that 2014 and 2015 will again provide an amount of €100 million for thermal renovation, from the environment and the economy, because it has proved true that it will also be possible to promote the economy in small areas and thus do something essential for our environment, and that is good and right. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Let me now come to the subject of education: Solid education is, of course, the prerequisite for every future in Austria, for our children. In recent years, we have put considerable funds in the development of the New Secondary School, in the reduction of the maximum number of students to 25 as well as in day care. These efforts will, of course, continue. In total, €8.1 billion is available for the budget chapter in 2014, € 7.98 billion in the forecast in 2015. The field of education, like all others, is not entirely excluded from the savings targets. Despite the declining number of students, we have a significant increase in expenditure when we look at the relationship between pupils and teachers, and we do not have the results we want in the comparison tests. It is therefore important to break down obsolete structures and ensure that the money arrives with the children. All children must benefit from this, and we expect this from the new resources we make available with these two budgets. By 2018, €400 million will be available to the Ministry of Education to speed up the expansion of day care. The extension of the New Secondary School is further financially secured. Education quality has to do not only with the financial effort, but above all with the teachers they teach. That is why it is also high time to recognise and appreciate this commitment of teachers who are the greatest in this educational and educational work, ladies and gentlemen. I want to do that today. In the classroom they do a proper job every day, and we would like to express that with these budgets. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Therefore, with the same passion as is discussed on organizational issues, we should also discuss in future how we can support teachers and how we can offer young people in school a correspondingly good environment in terms of content. I hope that this will also fall on fertile ground in the House. Let me now come to science: We also invest continuously in the tertiary education sector. Austria's universities receive nearly €1 billion in addition to the current service agreement periods by 2015. These budget increases also highlight a new financial instrument, the Higher Education Structure. A further 150 million are available annually at universities, most of which can be distributed by means of performance indicators such as the number of graduates and the third-party funds acquired by a university. So we see that educational institutions too have some of their performance, and that is a good incentive for them to stay on this path in the future. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] In 2014, the budget for universities comprises 3.76 billion, and in 2015 there are 3.78 billion. We have thus financed the existing universities. We have also achieved 100% security for the financing of the Faculty of Medicine in Linz. And it is ensured that a planned continuation can be carried out for the expansion of successful colleges with €56 million. I would like to increase the number of university students from currently 44 000 to 50 000, ladies and gentlemen. Through a fair scholarship system, we will also ensure that wise heads in Austria do not fail in a financial obstacle. Everyone and everyone should be able to develop themselves and his talents accordingly. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] And we insist that, despite crisis times, we will also create the financial conditions for this in these two budgets. And we expect stakeholders to make at least this effort to achieve the same success. Let me go to research: Just as in education, one can of course also say in research that there can never be enough money available for it. In the context of the possibility, however, we were able to achieve substantial increases in research. A particular focus will be on basic research. From 2016 to 2018, €300 million will be added so that we can go in the direction of excellence, in the direction of a competition-based basic research within the fund to promote scientific research and secure the expansion at the Austrian Academy of Sciences. And there will also be the further expansion of our Excellence Facility, the ISTA, Institute of Science and Technology Austria. We also secured payments of € 47.8 million in 2014 and € 54.5 million in 2015. These are ordinary amounts that also flow into research. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Even in the field of applied research, despite all the economic constraints, we have been able to keep not only the very high level of the past years but also to raise it. In 2014, €525.5 million were made available, and €530.8 million in 2015. This ensures a high level of research and innovation activity in the corporate sector and thus contributes safely to long-term prosperity in Austria. I'm going to be safe with that. Security is a crucial factor in the quality of life in this country. The Federal Government is investing in additional police, in good equipment, in short, in ensuring law and order. We have planned €2.5 billion for the Ministry of the Interior for 2014 and 2015. Despite the consolidation course, the staff plan provides that we will increase the number of posts for police officers by 1 000 from 2015 to 2018, because Austria must remain a safe country, ladies and gentlemen, so we also need to invest properly. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: That's it?]] Foreign policy: Even in times of rigid budget discipline, we have commitments in the world. Every day we reach news about war, natural disasters, diseases. Every day, we need to see that we can no longer stop or cope with the storm of boat refugees on the Mediterranean beaches. We are quite overwhelmed by these developments and their consequences. Therefore, we did not decrease the funding for bilateral development cooperation in 2014 compared to the previous year. For this important task, for contributions to international organisations, for ensuring the international interests of Austria in the world and for helping Austrians who are in distress abroad, we have planned €418 million in 2014 and budgeted €399 million in 2015. The budget of the Ministry of Finance, in my ministry, is also 405 million in 2014 and 360 million in 2015 for development cooperation. From soft loans to debt losses for developing countries to payments to the Austrian and international development banks, we ensure solidarity across our borders. This too is a crucial point for this Federal Government. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] on topic Defence: The Austrians were very impressive about maintaining the German army in the previous year. Although the budget for military matters is falling, we have secured both our peace-making commitment in the world and the important domestic disaster aid. In the 2014 budget, €2.16 billion and in 2015 € 1.98 billion are available. The expiry of the annual Eurofighter Councils should also be taken into account. The reform of the military service is as secure as improving training opportunities for our top athletes through a sports venue master plan. Let me go to the judicial centre: In the judicial resort, €1.3 billion is available in 2014 and €1.31 billion in 2015. This ensures the smooth functioning of case law and enforcement as well as the introduction of family justice. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] At the same time, adequate resources are available for the associations for the management of the property, for the assistance of victims for the use of process support and for the provision of probation aid. What was promised has also been observed here. On the subject of finance: Financial management ensures the financing of the community; it also creates the framework conditions for fair competition in the economy. But, of course, financial management is not excluded from the saving price either. The budget fell by around 38 million to 1.1 billion in 2014 compared with the previous year. We also have our problems with the retirement wave: By 2024, about 40 percent of our employees will retire. We will therefore also save on special projects, on promotions, and we will continue to ensure that implementation in the financial sector will continue to be ensured with 500 additional employees in the financial management. I come to the top organs: legislation, control, respect for citizens' rights: These are topics of the highest administration and of the supreme organs. In 2014, a total of €241 million is planned, with a budget of €229 million in 2015. To the Federal Chancellery: ==References====External links==* Official website In January 2014, legal protection in administrative procedures was significantly improved. In 2014, the Federal Chancellor's Office has funds of €396 million, over €383.6 million in 2015. In the field of art and culture, we have largely excluded cuts in discretionary expenditure; it is an essential part of our Austrian self-understanding, and as a finance minister I would like to add: it is also an important booster for the country's economic development. In 2014 the cultural budget is 368.6 million, according to the Underyear Change of Competence Act, and in 2015 it is €441.7 million. This can also increase the basic remuneration of the high-quality federal theatre, and we have secured the budgetary cover at the Bundesmuseen and also at the Leopold Museum. Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore come to my conclusion after this third part – the consideration of the individual departments. They now have a proposal for the 2014 and 2015 budgets and a framework by 2018. This will allow for a trend change for a balanced budget from 2016. Despite Hypo Alpe-Adria, this avoids a new load package for the population. And there are offensive measures for family, research and economic location. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would also like to create a basis for building up a tax reform, including a substantial relief from taxpayers, with this consolidation rate and the reforms that have already been launched and are in place, of course, provided that we are not overtaken by new crises such as those in Ukraine. On tax reform, my position is clear: If you work hard, you should stay in your pocket more in the future. Those who are diligent must have some of it. This applies to all persons employed in that country. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Of course I also hear the complaints: “We’re so tired,” and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, those who are planning a tax reform for the next year this year must also say that this is only about new debts – and I reject it in principle! We want to restore the state budget and create this room for the future. - That's the important thing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: New debt without tax reform! That's your model!]] What we need is a seriality of politics, not a policy of empty promises. We want to prepare for a tax reform, which is manageable, and we will also review the structures of our tax system. transparency and Simplicity is crucial for such tax reform. After 25 years, we must also remember a re-codification of the Income Tax Act. That's already outdated, just as it's on the table today. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, an input tax rate of 36,5 per cent for a gross income group is too high a year 11 000 to 25 000. There is no more incentive to work. We must therefore also try to reduce this tax rate. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ and NEOS.]] [[Abg. Kickl: How many times have we heard that?- Oh, my God!]] I would also like to ensure that families will be taken into account in a tax-structural reform, because those who choose the family must not fall into the poverty trap. We also need to make this clear in tax law. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We will work hard to ensure that all citizens can be relieved of the tax. That we don't do this about pump, I already said. But today I'm saying: We also need to critically question subsidies by the state through tax exemptions. The goal is a simple tax system, but in the future it will be designed in such a way that exceptions are the exception and not the rule, ladies and gentlemen! That's just a matter of simplicity. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We will be surrounded by the best minds of the country and will work consistently for this reform, just as every Austrian taxpayer works hard for this country by paying his taxes. We will ensure strict budgetary implementation this year, because we need to check that every euro taken by taxes is also carefully managed and re-issued. We also need permanent structural reform proposals, in every department, because this is necessary in order to be able to deal with this budget path in the future. On this occasion, I would like to thank all the departments, but especially the employees of my house, who have been here since 16. In December, the work on the preparation of these two budgets and the federal financial framework was most intensive, including on Easter holidays. Thank you all the employees of the financial management! [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report.]] I conclude by saying: Ladies and gentlemen, with this budget we will work out scope. With this budget, I am sure that we will secure Austria's success model and expand it in the future. I would therefore ask you to agree to my proposals on this.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e5845	Thank you, Mr. Vice-Chancellor. I just want to make it clear to the spectators: The debate on the budget speech or on this draft budget will take place tomorrow at the first reading. [[11:09:21]] 2. Point Report of the Family Committee on the Government Template (87 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Family Allowances Act 1967 and the Childcare Act (116 d.b.) 3rd. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on motion for a resolution (Doc.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e5885	We now come to points 2 and 3 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mrs Lueger. I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time is 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e5915	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen at the government! Dear spectators at the visitor gallery and in front of the TV screens! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! After the budget speech, in which the excitement is always very great, we now come to the area of family, and it is very nice that this topic once has a good place. We discuss or decide today a novel of the family tax compensation law, called FLAG. What is going to be done there? – There, family support will be regulated, and there will be a decision to increase family support. In total, the Federal Government makes €828 million available, and the increase in family support takes place in three steps. ==References== ==References====External links==* Official website January 2016 by 1.9 percent and from 1. January 2018 again by 1.9 percent. Knowing that the increase in family support for the individual families is only a small plus every month, I think that it is nevertheless a step in the right direction. The family allowance is not the only measure to improve the compatibility of work and family. Another positive aspect is that the increased family allowance for significantly disabled children from 1st century onwards. July 2014 will rise by 11.70 € to 150 €. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] ==References====External links== January 2016 and 1. January 2018 increases by 1.9 percent each. We Social Democrats know that this can only be part of the family benefits. Another important part for the better compatibility of work and family is simply the expansion of institutional childcare facilities. That's what it's supposed to be for. In the coming years, also give €380 million to secure the expansion to ensure better opening hours in order to get even better quality – all in the sense of the families. [[Complementary of the Abg. Kucharovich.]] There should also be an improvement in the training of the day's mothers. But there are not only mother-in-laws, there should also be father-in-laws. One essential aspect for us is also: We are absolutely for the introduction of the Papa-month so that the fathers are involved in child rearing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The third step to be taken is the development of occupational childcare facilities, with companies very likely to join forces to provide for childcare. All of this leads to a better choice of parents, because if the framework conditions are true, the offers will also be accepted. With the first out-of-home educational institution – the kindergarten, which ultimately includes mother-in-laws and day-fathers – the quality is already at a very high level. The problem in this area, however, is that we have nine different national laws. It can't be that the framework conditions for educators, assistants and whatever they all land on land are to be called landabove. It must – and this is a central requirement of social democracy – provide a uniform, federal quality framework, in the sense of the staff in kindergartens, in the educational institutions for which the quality and framework conditions are simply to fit, and also in the sense of the children and the parents anyway, whereby we say: The closing times are massively reduced because no one of the parents has as much vacation as there are still locks in kindergartens. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Minister – she is not here right now – we also have the federal uniform quality framework in the government agreement. They are now required to come up with a proposal so that we can make the next move here. Back to FLAG: A modification has been made for students in the study entry phase, and the minimum requirement has been reduced to 14 ETCS points. A colleague or colleague will submit another motion for a resolution on people with disabilities who cannot be permanently self-employed. There were great difficulties because for these people it was not possible to ensure that they would continue to receive increased family support without problems if they tried to work on the first labour market and failed to do so. What leads me, Mrs. Minister, and I'm a little disappointed: The FLAG is open. We would have had the opportunity today to decide on an amendment. The compromise in order to show signs for people with disabilities has now been this resolution to ensure that they continue to receive increased family support if they fail on the first labour market. Ladies and gentlemen, we are committed to supporting people with disabilities as well as to ensuring that they are able to work on their own and to maintaining themselves. And this regulation is an essential step in this direction. I am therefore disappointed when, unfortunately, this proposal has only become a motion for a resolution because I do not know when the next FLAG-Novelle will take place; that is not clear to me. It would have been nice if we could have put this into the law today with an amendment proposal. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] At the same time, we will take the orphanage in the Ministry of Social Affairs, because it is directly related to it. This will be done by the next law, and then a positive aspect has certainly been created for people with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e6024	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Straster is now speaking. 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e6046	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Our Federal Minister Sophie Karmasin has clearly defined her goal this week: Austria will become the most family-friendly country in Europe by 2025. Granted, this is an ambitious goal, and in order to achieve it, a national shoulder closure will be necessary. It will be necessary to cross social borders, and it will be necessary to cross political boundaries. It will require extensive reflections and a lively exchange between people, society, politics and the world of work, so that as many ladies and gentlemen in this country as possible can be inspired by this vision. In order for us to change the world a little – and this is a desire that we hear in politics in days like this very often – it is necessary to use our little ones and give our children tools in order to make their lives worth living. The Federal Government has done a lot in its programme. It is indicative that despite scarce resources in the family sector, more resources have been provided. Family aid will be increased – a long-term step. Furthermore, a reform of the childcare allowance will be launched, and the extension of childcare facilities will continue to be forced. The daily parents are also of great concern to this Federal Government. In this area around €350 million is reserved. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Arbitrator.]] Finally, we will need a balanced mix consisting of financial benefits, tax benefits and investments in childcare. With all these measures, we want to strengthen family cohesion. Whoever's lucky to grow up in a family association with Grandma and Grandpa, Mama and Dad, knows what I'm talking about. Families, businesses, schools, kindergartens, cribs and dayparents can make the world of our children liveable so that they can be prepared well for life. Now on the facts and facts, because it is always argued that too little is done for the families. I can quote an article published in the “Standard” from December 2013, where it reads in the title: ‘Families promotion: Expenditure per child significantly increased”, and then in the article: Family benefits expenditure has increased by 19.1 percent since 2006, with inflation at 14.2 percent over this period. - Quote. So, in recent years, a lot has happened for our families. Now to increase the family allowance. ==References== In July, family aid increased by 4 per cent and then by 1.9 per cent every two years. The school start-up fee was secured, and the multi-child supplement remains preserved. A great thank you to the The Federal Government, the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Family, have opened this possibility. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A brief comment on colleague Lueger: I should like to thank you at this point for your support. Colleagues Königsberger-Ludwig, colleague Lueger and I, we have a very intense time behind us – the last week was very intense – but unfortunately we have not yet managed with some legal and technical details to pack the right of return for disabled people into the increased family aid into a package, so to speak. There is a motion for a resolution which has, moreover, been debated by the Greens in the Committee on Family Affairs, and I have the firm commitment of our Federal Minister that she will be personally committed to this issue in order to give our social organisations such as Caritas or Life Help a tool to help disabled people make it easier for disabled people to move into the working world. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now to the oppositional reflections that are likely to exist since politics is made: Measures come too early or too late, they are too much or too little, or you simply see different things quite different. Dear ladies and gentlemen! To all those who are important to family policy in Austria: I can assure you that this Federal Government is doing the best for the good of our children and families. We, ladies and gentlemen, work for you, we work for our children and families with all our strength – in the federal government, in the countries and in the municipalities. We are working on a way to a good future, the way to make Austria the most family-friendly country in Europe. I'll ask you to support us. – Thank you very much and very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e6128	Mr Podgorschek is now speaking. Speaking time: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e6149	Madam President. My women's ministers and Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! The family is the basis and the future of our state, and it is the most urgent task of us politicians to secure the survival of the families. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In recent years, we have called for more emphasis to be placed on families, whether through a family tax division, or by increasing family allowances, because many families now have to live below the poverty line – and this should be stopped urgently. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In today's budget speech by Federal Minister Spindelegger, we have heard quite positive approaches, and I can quote him again with his statement: It must be over with debt making! – Yes, Mr Vice-Chancellor. He's right. – He said that a foundation stone of his policy will be: Get rid of new debts! – Yes, Mr Vice-Chancellor. And if he says that the Hypo Alpe-Adria is the largest financial scandal in the Second Republic, then I also give him the right, but I ask why both government parties repeatedly reject the establishment of an investigation committee. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Austria's state finances have come into disrepute, and the Hypo Alpe-Adria is only used as an excuse. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It was already the case that we now have the highest tax burden, that we have more taxes to pay than the Sweden, and that has nothing to do with the Hypo Alpe-Adria to do because you just pull the money out of your pocket! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Unfortunately, the main victims are the families. Rehabilitation of this state by means of additional revenue and a step-by-step reduction in expenditure has failed at the end of the day. The economy – we have heard it over and over again in the last few days – whether it be the Chamber of Commerce or the Chamber of Commerce, draws attention to this development. Considering that revenues have increased by 14 percent over the last three years, I wonder: Where does the money hang with the families? – They have no more money to fight their daily lives! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The discussion, which the Director-General of the Upper Austrian VOEST drew, that the location of Austria is no longer competitive, is a first message that we have to think about how we change the framework conditions. In the global competition index of the Swiss University of Economics (IMD), we have fallen by seven places in the last four years, from 16 to 23. It's all right. There is alert level 1, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The World Bank and the World Economic Forum also criticise the excessive tax burden on our people. Where has the announced decommissioning of the economy now taken place? I can't find that in this budget. Instead, the cold progression will increase the tax rate for people, and they will have to deliver more and more money. What we need so that we are well positioned for the future is an extensive state and structural reform. We have, we have to admit, an antique structure of the state, taken from the monarchy, which it is necessary to reconsider and renovate. The links to the interfaces between the federal, state and local authorities are a disaster. This has an impact – we have recently discussed it – on the entire educational debate because we do not know who is responsible, federal government or countries. And this debate will continue. This has an impact in the health field, where we have many different bodies that pay out the subsidies, where there is no single line to be identified. This has an impact on pensions, which has an impact especially on the subsidies, where even the Vice-Chancellor has admitted today, that it is no longer possible for various federal authorities to pay out subsidies, but also countries, municipalities et cetera. We need a proper overview. Not even in the uniform accounting system that the opposition has already been promised, there is now an excuse for us to introduce it. That would be the first condition for controlling a budget. We must finally be aware of the direction in which our state has to go. Do we want a federalist state or a centralist state? Do we want a Swiss model, or do we want more of the Swedish model? Both models are usable, but what we now have is neither fish nor meat, but only a mutual blockade of federal and country states. That should finally be cleared out of the way! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is currently true that the Heads of State determine politics rather than the Federal Government. It is about the implementation of the proposals both of the Court of Auditors and of the Austrian Convention, but I do not see an approach in this budget speech far and wide. Sweden has shown us for a long time. In Sweden, the government has been fully rehabilitating the budget, and today Sweden is much better there when we were. Why can't we do this in Austria? – Because red and black only block each other and represent their own interests. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I can only say one thing – and at the end of the day I'm going to give the vice chancellor back – which will have to apply in the future, so that the families will have more money in their pockets: Those who work hard must have more money in their pocket in the future! – Yes, Mr Vice-Chancellor!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e6280	Mrs Mag. Musiol now speaks. It's also seven minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e6301	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Listeners here in the house! As you have heard the budget speech of the Deputy Chancellor and Minister of Finance, I have heard the word “reform” several times, and I have not trusted my ears. Reforms look different. I would call this budget a standstill budget and not a reform budget. I would like to point this out to you on the basis of family policy. Today, the government is celebrating a change in the family allowance, a change in the family allowance that we have long called for, not only we but also other opposition parties – FPÖ, BZÖ a.D. and others. But if we look at the facts of what exactly is left of it to the families, then that is 4 to 6 euros per month. And to celebrate this as a great reform is horrendous. Apart from the fact that this is only a one-time increase and is not at all secured, what is happening beyond 2018. [[Abg. Wöginger: That's not true! This is not a one-time increase!]] That means you don't think beyond your own government period. [[Abg. Wöginger: Why do you tell the untruth? Why?]] 2018 these increases end, and then you don't know how to proceed. We have been calling for an inflation adjustment for years. We've been demanding for years that the families get the money they need. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They not only need money in the form of family benefits, they also need benefits in the form of benefits in kind. This is afternoon care, which is childcare for the little ones and the little ones, but of course also for the school children. Your reforms in this budget can be read very well, for example in the field of schoolchildren. What about the announced expansion of all day schools? In this budget one reads of a reduction in this expansion of all day schools, a reduction in the expansion of all day schools. How does it look with the so-called family kindness? The Social Minister is negotiating a flexible daily working time of 12 hours for workers. [[Abg. Wöger: For whom? Who's he negotiating for? – There is only the untruth told! That's incredible!]] [[Abg. Auer: And that consciously!]] How are you, please, organizing the families? Look at the childcare landscape in Austria! I am also looking at the SPÖ, which is always talking about the need for a socially just family policy that we need an extension of childcare facilities. You, Mrs Lueger, have now brought the Federal Framework Plan back to the meeting and have said that we need a uniform system. You know very well that in almost every meeting of the Family Committee during the last legislative period, I have tabled our request for a uniform provision for childcare, and the SPÖ has voted against it, even though you have already made such a request. This is not a reform policy, it is a standstill policy! You will not be measured by your announcements or your promises that you make before elections, but you will be measured by what the families actually get. And that's 4 to 6 € per month today. That's really a joke! [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens.]] [[Federal Minister Karmasin: More! - Oh, my God!]] Of course, it could be less – because Mrs. Minister says: more – but, Mrs. Minister, you know what you spend on children, you know what you need for children. You will hopefully also know how many families are available in income, and you will hopefully also know in which relation there are 4 to 6 €. You can't even fight the jause in a week. So it's really ridiculous to sell this as a great reform. The procedure you regularly apply in family policy already shows a certain pattern: They always promise everything possible around elections – as an example I call the 13. Family aid that you have even introduced – and then, a little later, take back these promises. In other words, we can only wait for what you have made of all the promises you have now made in your government agreement, or what you will take back from these achievements that you are now bringing back here, always under the coat: We can't afford it. – Then don’t promise the families! Then please make honest family policy! And not only we, but also all the institutions, have reported this in the opinions, but above all our control body, the Court of Auditors, has been pointing out for years that this jungle of family benefits, that this whole family policy you have pursued in Austria for years, is not sustainable. We have over 200 family benefits in Austria, where no one knows who gets them, why they get them. Those concerned often do not know that they are at their disposal, and those who pay it do not know where these benefits actually flow and whether they really have the effect they are supposed to have. This is not a family policy of the 21st century. 19th century! You can't agree that modern family policy is! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Stroll.]] And if honourable Member Strasser says to the listeners and spectators, we make politics for you, then I can tell you, I know – at the time you were not in the house – who you mean by the ÖVP with “you”. I just remember the so-called family relief package, tax package. What did that do? – This tax package has supported the well and better deserved families, but has not brought any changes and no improvements and support to those families that deserve so little that they do not even pay taxes. And that's where the SPÖ went! You can't talk to the ÖVP partner again. You are two partners – hopefully equal – and you have decided to do so together. And you didn't take that back! [[Abg. Strasser: We do excellent work!]] You can imagine yourself mantra-like that you are doing great work, but if you say we want to become the most family-friendly country in 2025, then I can only say to you in good Viennese: But you still have to do it properly, because just as you do now, it won't go out. [[Abg. Strasser: We'll show you how it is!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And with regard to the investment in childcare, the question is also open: 350 million € have been announced, but they are intended to be invested in the expansion of the places especially for under three years, in quality assurance – so that you can really talk about educational institutions – in the training and in the equipment of educators – as we have an absolute lack because Austria has still not managed to follow up on the rest of Europe and make education academic – into language promotion. Everyone can assume that the achievement of all of these goals, which you are now advocating, will not go out. I tell you, if you really want to make a socially just family policy and if you really want to become the most family-friendly country in 2025, then it would be a first step to vote on all the requests we have made to Greens, but also NEOS and the other opposition parties – perhaps not all of them – from the FPÖ, and not only to abdicate. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Deimek]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e6449	Mrs. Klub President Dr. Nachbaur is now speaking. Seven minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e6471	Thank you, Mr President. Dear government representatives! High house! Dear taxpayers! The new budget is – hardly surprising – a budget of record debt, record taxes, and once again there is a deficit. This is common practice in this country: Since the 1970s, the red and black government has reliably produced a deficit. With all due respect, you just can't manage and you're deceiving the families: 4 € more per child, and that doesn't fit inflation! They're gonna send billions into the administration. The Court's proposals remain largely unaffected. Do you refuse any reform and now have the courage to produce and proudly announce that the families will receive €4 more?- Oh, my God! There a mother can buy her butzi a silicone snout. The latex snout costs 5 €, it won't go out. [[Abg. Wöginger: What kind of snout is that? This is a Stronach-Schnuller, if it costs 5 €!]] According to the Court of Auditors, a reduction in administration of only 5 percent of €7 billion, and that every year. In your package, just over €800 million of transfer payments will be sent to families in the coming years. I wonder, How useful is such a measure, which costs more than €800 million, with a family receiving €4 per child? [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I criticize this socialist redistribution model. The taxpayers are expressed as a lemon, so that the state can then convert it into transfer services. In doing so, the administration devours a considerable part of the money; but redistribution means power, and for the sake of power, politics still wants to tax and redistribut. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach]] Obviously, we do not want an independent citizen. It would be much better if families had more money in their money bags and could decide for themselves how to care for their children – a kind of open society. I trust every mother and family that she herself knows best how to care for her child and what is good for her child. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We suggest that families from two children can switch to family taxation in order to reduce the tax burden. Child rearing must not become a poverty trap, and it must be easy for every woman to stay at home with the child if she wants to. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Women who stay at home voluntarily are seriously disadvantaged by politics; it seems that politics does not trust them, perhaps because they have not enjoyed educational training. I can tell you that I am still very happy and grateful today that my mother stayed at home and took care of me. The best pedagogical can't weigh a mother's heart. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The most absurd in this context is the following: When a mother changes her child to care for her neighbor, she suddenly has a real job that has a name, “mother day”, she has an income, and she enjoys some recognition of politics. But if she takes care of her own child at home, then she's just a mother?- Oh, my God! Many mothers work, and even these mothers are of course worth the utmost respect. It's not easy to put everything under one hat. For their support and especially for single-parents, we need flexible childcare facilities with a comprehensive range of learning and sports, where there is healthy food for the children and where they can stay out of the fresh air, have fun, learn, maybe learn an instrument. It needs such facilities, and I argue that there is a tax incentive for entrepreneurs to set up farm kindergartens so that there is an opportunity for working women to accommodate their children optimally. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I repeatedly plead for it: down with the taxes, down with the administrative costs, more money into the pockets of working families, mothers, people! Especially absurd in this context – now I would like to stress the focus on the budget – is the government's efforts to hold 25 percent of the shares in Telekom Austria. This seems to be about the preservation of power and basket money for individuals at the expense of the entire population. There is no money for education, research and science and exactly €4 for families, and yet the government wants to take over up to €400 million of tax money to secure its influence at Telekom Austria?- Oh, my God! – That is totally irresponsible! The state has no money. Where is he going to take it? Is he supposed to make more debts to secure the influence of Telekom Austria? – These proportional posts must finally stop! My proposal on this: Each ÖIAG organ is to have to buy shares of ÖIAG companies in relation to its income. So everyone would learn what responsibility is and finally sit in the same boat with the taxpayer. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] After the Telekom market has already been liberalised, it is totally incomprehensible to enter into liberalisation at European level and to recoup at Austrian level – due to the demands of power and vanity. The security argument does not apply either. Since we seem to work closely with the NSA anyway, there is no security argument here. In conclusion: Since in our system private wealth formation has become practically impossible by the enormous taxes anyway, one should be grateful that an investor comes, takes money into his hands, secures jobs, and ideally creates new ones – even where ÖIAG has paid off from Deutsche Telekom for many years and has practically bled out the company. And now the government may have fresh capital to not give up the loss of power to individuals, while there is €4 for families, and the Minister of Education has to sell a savings package?- Oh, my God! – This is a blatant misunderstanding and clearly shows the lack of understanding of this government, which is really important for families and citizens in this country. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] As always, however, I want to be constructive. I know in times of huge deficit and huge debt it is not easy to give the families tax relief, but my appeal to the government is: Recognize the family as the foundation building block of society! Show understanding for families and women, don't take a lot of taxes off them, then give back alms! I say quite clearly: The families and especially the women are the basis of our society, the basis for everything, we trust them more! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e6559	Mr Klubobmann is now speaking for Dr. Strolz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e6581	Madam President. Estimated representatives of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear citizens! Dear hypo-numbers! Dear young guests here in the High House! The issue is the budget, specifically now the family benefits of the state, and I can say that we will agree to NEOS on the issue of increasing family support. We think it is important that we invest in improving the family-friendly climate, as nothing has happened for too long, and that is why we say yes to it. In principle, we want to invest more in benefits in kind – keyword: continue to develop early childhood education; Tag: Language early promotion in the mother tongue, whether German or not, that seems particularly important to us. Of course, we are also concerned about the giant hole, which is in the reserve fund of the family tax compensation fund, namely 2.9 billion by the end of 2014. Beate Meinl-Reisinger will report even more accurately on this later. All in all, of course, I understand the Minister of Finance. In such a tense situation to create a budget, that is not an easy task, that is quite clear. But how could we get into such a tense situation?, that's the big question. The fact is that: For 52 years – there were probably more than three quarters of the visitors to the gallery and also a good part of the mandaters, at least the NEOS club, not yet in the world – SPÖ and ÖVP make a reliable and new debt every year – quite reliable and new debts every year, for 52 years! We all, as we sit and stand there, know that we will no longer be able to do this in the next 52 years. It's not going to happen, it's not going to go out! It doesn't play anymore! This is not even going to take place for the next 20 years, we all know. [[Abg. Arbitrator: What does this have to do with the family? Theme!]] The good news is – and I like it –: At least it is clear that the budget, even if one wants to further promote families, cannot be financed on pump in the long term. That's not going to work either. It is true that ÖVP and SPÖ are slowly beginning to understand what John Maynard Keynes meant at the time, namely: shoot and invest in bad times to stimulate demand. However, the second half they never understood or ignored: put it on the side in good times. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] I can tell you, Mr Krainer, in the last 52 years there have been really fat years, really succinct years. And you didn't even manage to put a cent on the side, not once! [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the Stronach team.]] The fat years are over! You have celebrated one election party after another in these fat years, and the bill pays the next generation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrary]] The boys burn like the Lusters, and you don't even find that next door. I had a class last week to visit – you don't need John Maynard Keynes, you need a house mind –; even nine-year-olds with their home mind can see perfectly: It is neither sustainable nor fair to make 52 years of debt each year, that does not matter! – Nine-year-olds understand, you don't understand. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] Why don't you understand? - Because you have a credo! Your credo is: Better cut a few billion new debts at the expense of the next generation than cut some privilege of my clients! Better cut a few billion debts at the expense of the next generation than cut a privilege of my clients! They have tried for years and decades to feed and structurally corrupt the electorate – and that is not all right! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] That's not all right! [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the Stronach team.]] The sad message of this budget, and thus the outlook for the next few years, is: SPÖ and ÖVP are not willing – or unable – to make single-fit, generation-friendly budgets. [[Interlocutory calls from MEPs Schieder and Königsberger-Ludwig.]] They are not capable or unwilling, that is still unexplained; we continue to investigate. Both are, of course, a tragedy. They nest in the little little girl, and I respect that you really try to make a real effort in the little girl. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer]] I respect your eye-catching attempts in the little thing, but your problem is: They're breeding hippos. [[The speaker shows a red-black-painted hippo with a 500-€ appearance in the mouth.]] You're a breeding club, SPÖ and ÖVP, you're breeding hippos. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] You cultivate swamp landscapes, and in these swamp landscapes you breed hippos. [[Abg. Wöginger: What kind of word choice is that?- Oh, my God!]] These hippos have different names, such as Hypo Alpe-Adria; Names such as pension lies, health reforms that do not take place, namely health systems as gold-plated snipers of state princes and chamber appliances. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] – These are your hippos, and they eat money, money, money, never end! They eat the money we need in education, research and the expansion of broadband. [[Call the ÖVP: Completely fucked!]] They lowered the money in the promotion of the party, they lowered it in the grants. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrary]] I only have 7 minutes today – the Lamperl here already – so I'll tell you tomorrow where we would invest NEOS if we were in government responsibility and where we'd get the money back. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] One thing is clear: With Red-Black Austria is poor in the future. You have great merits, but if you continue this way, we will visit you as a political dinosaur at the museum, because the boys have long recognized that they will be betrayed by you. This is your coat of arms. [[The speaker again shows the red-black-painted hippo.]] Let me tell you this, ladies and gentlemen, please give it to Mr Faymann, Mr Spindelegger, please put it on the desk! It's supposed to be a warning sign. A turnaround is possible, you just have to want. As you can, we'll explain to you tomorrow. – Hippo, the coat of arms of the red-black government coalition!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e6756	I would just like to draw attention to the fact that we do not have a budget debate today. Mr. Klubobmann Strolz is very close to the fact that I had to express my reputation for the matter. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Auer: I don't know about parliamentarism!]] We must comply with our own rules of procedure, and it has been agreed that the budget debate will take place tomorrow at the first reading – and not now. They did not say anything about family aid. [[Call the ÖVP: Empty content!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stroll.]] – They have taken the word “family” into their mouths, but this is not yet the family allowance. The next speaker is Mrs Karmasin, Federal Minister. Speaking time: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e6810	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear citizens! Thank you very much for the contributions, especially those that have affected the family! Mr Strolz, please save the resources, shame for the oil in there! Above all, I would like to relativize this comical policy. [[Complaints and bravaders at the ÖVP as well as applause at the SPÖ.]] On the topic – on the real subject – namely family. I think it's undisputed, family is the most important, at least for 95 percent of people in Austria. Unfortunately, we face the situation that this desire to create a family, to have children and to live in a family does not correspond to reality. We know from the last study, a Europe-wide, very well-founded panel study that 43 percent of the people who have wanted children over the last three years have been able to achieve this wish. That is to say, the desire and the reality are now in an blatant contrast, and this is a witness of poverty for Austria. In addition, the number of families is steadily decreasing, i.e. we will live more and more in a country characterized by singles and singles without children. These are values and a way of life that, as I believe, will change us, of course we must oppose them. That is to say, the family theme is a topic of the future, and it is ultimately also an economic theme. If we do not succeed in investing in this area and in bearing in mind the topic of family in Austria, the future, our prosperity and ultimately our quality of life will be lost. I am therefore very glad that the Federal Government has agreed to invest €1.6 billion in this area. It is probably 50 percent direct payments and 50 percent in kind. This is certainly a paradigm change, because up to now we have 80 percent direct payments and 20 percent benefits in kind. I am already talking about a paradigm change. It can also be called reform. At least it's a new way to think about family, children and schooling. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] As already stated, we want to make Austria the most family-friendly country in Europe within the next ten years, which is my declared goal. This is not an easy goal, especially in view of the fact that only 31 percent of Austrians currently feel this, while in Denmark, for example, it is 90 percent. So there's another way to go. But, as has been said, the Federal Government's commitment to the greatest investment in this legislative period in the area of family – and in no other – is already quite clear and honest about pursuing and achieving this goal. If we are now talking about the family allowance – the individual cornerstones are known – it may also be quite interesting to see how to handle numbers. It's about €830 million – that's at a time when savings are necessary in every resort, probably not a cardboard handle – and there's always 3 € per family. – This is simply wrong if we look at the total period and the total increases over the period. You can't just talk about a value. If you have two children, if you take into account the multiple child supplement, if you take into account significantly disabled children, we are between 350 € and 1,500 € increase over the entire period. [[Call the FPÖ:per month!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] So 1,500 € It's probably not a small issue to raise. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I'll give you the right to: Of course, we could double the family allowance. This is from a position in which one does not have to deal responsibly with the state finances and wants to reach a budget path, always easy to say. I think the commitment is a clear one. Above all, it is not a one-time increase, but – and we are very proud of it – it is a systematic adjustment of family support, for the first time in the history of family aid, and for the first time for the first time for 13 years an increase that has been systematically taking place in the biennial rhythm, well-known until 2018; we cannot decide beyond the legislative period. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] One point that is important to me: the monthly payment of the family allowance. This has now gone down, but it is a very important concern to me that we have been able to decide and enforce it. Especially for socially weaker families, it is an important topic to be able to have the finances on a monthly basis. All other expenditures and revenues are charged monthly, so it is my concern to be able to plan and spend family support on a monthly basis, especially for socially weak families, single educators – mostly women – to make this possibility available. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] Finally, I would like to say that family aid is, of course, a huge financial instrument. An average family with two children receives almost €5,000 a year under the title of the family allowance. This is already a huge amount, which now, as has been said, is increased over the legislative period between €350 and €1 500. I always think it's a bit blasphemous when it's said that it's 3 €, because it's just not right. One must take into account the age of the child and the number of children. And finally, you also have to value 3 € tax money, for some families this is quite a significant amount. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] Finally, I would like to say: With this increase in family support, which is only the first step on the way to a more family-friendly Austria, we have made one, as I believe, very important step in the financial support of families. The other components in the area of compatibility, the care facilities will follow. As I said, this is the first step on the way to the most family-friendly country in Europe Austria, and I ask you to support it here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e6889	Mrs Heinisch-Hosek is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e6911	Mr President. Mrs Karmasin! High house! I also believe that it is good, right and It is important that the relationship between money and benefits has changed positively in recent years. I can remember: Since 2008, there has been money for the expansion of childcare facilities. More than 50,000 new places have been created to date, with well over 11 000 jobs going along with it. It is nice that since 1999 the family allowance, i.e. a cash benefit, has been increased for the first time and that it is paid out monthly, because we know that it has been difficult for some families of division to count over two months and see if they get out of the money. I think the monthly disbursement is also a great help, as is the guarantee of the increase in family support until the end of this legislative period. But let us go one step further, because I also believe that today is a good opportunity to talk about the changes in family policy. The opposition may well be noted that during this period of government we want to redefine the family concept – even in the past legislative period we have already worked on it – we want a modern family concept of the 21st century. ==References== Family has become colorful, everyone who wants to have a child knows that they will have a child living with children. But for me, of course, my husband and I, who we are without children, but who have a grandchild, are also family; this too is family. That is, it is not necessarily so that only where children are can families be happy. We, this Federal Government, have recognised the colorfulness of the families and are trying to treat alone with children, rainbow families, not only equally, but gradually adapting the laws so that all families in this country have something of family policy; and it is important to stress that. That is, the family concept, which some still cannot live very modernly, has changed. Whether we want or not, the cohabitation of people with or without children has changed dramatically. There are patchwork situations and so on. That's one. On the other hand: As already mentioned, we are changing the cash benefits for the first time since 1999, certainly three times, certainly also the multi-child supplement, and certainly also the supplement for significantly disabled children. In this respect, the necessary measures have been taken. But it is important, and we still have that in front of us, that is what the Federal Government is negotiating in particular with the federal states, that we also want to expand the benefits in kind, because money alone has never increased the rate of birth, we know that too. Money alone, tax benefits come alone, we also know that – the Minister of Finance has today addressed a tax reform – not all families benefit. And because the Minister of Justice was here too: Even in child care, the world is not always as rosy as we believe. There are many who can't pay for this maintenance, but also many who don't want to pay him. We are therefore in the process of commissioning a child cost analysis to see if the arrangements for child care are still up-to-date or if we also need to tighten up. That's what we're going to do. We'll pick up all the topics. Family policy is more than a cash benefit alone, as Mrs Colleague said. We will also seriously change the benefits in kind, in conjunction with quality; this is also very important. We have nothing of an expansion of the elementary childcare facilities when they lock down at lunchtime. We must ensure that all those who want to have a good educational place for their children from the beginning also receive it. If someone else decides or the children, because the region gives it, are cared for in dayparents, in other organizations or in microstructures, then this should be just as right for us. The 350 million that we will still make available will consist of a good and smart mix, consisting of services for micro-services, institutional childcare facilities, saying: Children's cribs, crabs and kindergartens, but also – it has already been mentioned several times, how important it is to learn the German language of education – from services for the promotion of the language, which is important for the entire level of development of children, so that we can all be fit from the beginning to ensure that children, when they come to an educational institution, are best accompanied there in order to be able to go the further educational path for which we also provide €400 million, so that no child needs to be left behind.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e6977	The next item is the speech by Mr Lipitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e6998	Mr President. Highly esteemed ministers on the government bank! Dear spectators on the gallery and in front of the televisions! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank the two ministers that we have now found a way back to the issue of family policy, because it is important to present family policy in the way it really is lived in Austria, and I think it is the right way we are going. I was surprised when the colleague of the Freedom Party said at the outset that it was important for politics to decide which way the state or the country should go. The fact that this statement comes from the Freedom Party, which has almost ruined Carinthia in its reign in the country of Carinthia, is surprising. We're going another way. We want to bring something forward for the people in this republic. The families are a topic of the future. It is necessary to create appropriate prospects for them, not only distribution policies can take place. The two ministers have also clearly explained the path to be taken. There are three priorities: first, monetary policy, i.e. financial support for families. The second area is the infrastructure that needs to be created to help families. And thirdly, it is about time policy to give families the opportunity to reconcile family and work. These are the three main pillars of family policy. The present changes to the Family Compensation Act provide 828 million additional cash benefits to increase family support. I mean, this is a real first step in this area, so that families have a little more money at their disposal. The supplement for significant disabled people is also increased – also a right path. And there is still a motion for a resolution today – I hope that we can put it in legal form as soon as possible – that people with disabilities will have the opportunity to return from the labour market more quickly. We must put that in the law as soon as possible. €70 million will be made available for the free kindergarten year, and – this is especially important for me – 350 million will be available for the extension of the childcare system. In the next few years, there will be a wide range of services available. Especially the extension of childcare facilities is a guarantee that family and profession are compatible. In order to be able to reconcile family and profession, you may need to look at it – that's what came from the Stronach team – if perhaps the neighbor takes the child. I think there is only one way: appropriate childcare facilities, which are supported by the country, the municipality or the federal government, and on the other hand, private establishments must also provide the possibility of childcare facilities, because working hours are becoming more flexible. Single women in particular often have the problem of being unable to carry out a job because childcare facilities are not available to the appropriate extent. This needs to be further worked on. 350 million are available. I hope that many businesses will also take up the possibility and say: I make it possible for my staff member to accommodate her/her child during working hours. In addition to the cash benefits, the benefits already mentioned are very important in order to enable people to reconcile work and family life. The law also refers – as my previous speaker Mr Lueger said – to the students in order to take account of the changes that have taken place in recent years. The possibility will be provided to pay child support to the appropriate extent after the age of study. As I said, €830 million in the next few years are not a cardboard handle. I know the opposition says it could be more and more. It is not a cardboard stalk, and it is the right way that we should continue for the benefit of the families in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e7063	The next item is the speech by Mr Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e7084	Mr President. Estimated Federal Ministers! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Families are the basis for a functioning society, and especially families with children are our main focus. The children are simply our future, and that is why today the increase in family support here in this House will be decided, with a total package of € 828 million up to 2018. The first round of speakers has shown how little one deals with the matter and how inaccurate it is spoken here, and that is actually a pity. To the Greens: Mrs Musiol, you are going out here saying that this is a one-time increase. - That's wrong! It's going to be 1. ==References====External links== It is increased by 1.9 percent in January 2016 and is increased by 1. January 2018 raised again by 1.9 percent. [[Abg. Musiol: What is 2018?]] I do not understand, Mrs Colleague, why you, as elected Members, stand out here and deliberately claim the untruth because you know that something else is in the bill! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For school afternoon care: Why are you going out here and saying that funds are being reduced? – The Minister of Education has explained in detail, also with regard to the media, that she will be transformed in this area. They stand out here and say it is being shortened, just to insure the population. But You are not elected Members to spread the untruth here, but you too have to stick to the truth. [[Abg. Lopatka: Exactly!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are here in Parliament, and not in a chateau! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] To the Stronach team – Mrs. Nachbaur, whose material contributions I would like to very much appreciate, is unfortunately not in the hall –: Apparently, the Stronach-Schnuller costs 5 €, and this is available in Canada and not in Austria. In Austria – depending on the brand, NUK or MAM – you get two snouts of just under €5. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] This also contributes to the reassurance, ladies and gentlemen, because there is something put in the room, which is not true. I do not think it is all right to be constantly confronted with untruths or with false reports of the population. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Lopatka: Where's the snout?]] The third thing: Mr Strolz, you have actually shot the bird off when you put the vulture on the government bank, because that is unworthy of this House. You, especially you, would have to know that we thank God in one of the best countries in the world. [[Abg. Stroll: (a hippo showing) Your coat of arms!]] And there's nothing better for you than to stick the vulture to the government bank!Unknown term type: "%s".? And what are you doing today? – But we know one thing since today: Stroll, the comedian. This remains: Stroll, the comedian! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Stroll: (newly a hippo showing) Your coat of arms!]] paper and paperboard, paperboard, You'd rather go with your fellow Members. If this is the family policy of NEOS, which Mr Alm operates, namely that he signs that he is in favour of being penalised for abortion until birth, then: Good night! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the NEOS.]] Ms Mlinar wants Russia in the EU – on the other hand, the population is and we too are here in the House. Or: Doping is to be released in sport! – Ladies and gentlemen, this is the true face of NEOS. This has nothing to do with a good and functioning social and family policy! Back to the matter, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Subsequent calls to NEOS.]] We raise the family allowance in three steps by a total of € 828 million. The Minister for Finance has made this clear today in his speech: Despite savings, despite the fact that they are necessary, we focus on family policy, both in terms of cash benefits and in terms of benefits. We'll raise the family allowance properly. I'll give you two examples. Of course, if the family allowance is 105 € per month, the increase cannot be 50 €. But it is justified to mention an annual amount. We have made the ÖAAB a folder that is also available on the homepage www.oeaab.com. [[The speaker shows]] There are examples that are also correct. For two children aged eight and twelve, the increase per year is around 200 €. In total, there are 822 € more in the coming years. For three children aged 6, 11 and 16 years – thankfully there are also such families – the increase is 1 347 €. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It's taking money here because it's necessary to relieve families financially and get them under the arms. It must be worth to society and politics too, if families are to thank God still for children. [[Congratulation of the Abg. El Habbassi.]] We also invest in the compatibility of work and family: € 350 million for the expansion of childcare facilities for under three years, € 400 million for the expansion of school day care. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen – the final sentence, Mr President – I would like to thank all those who work in childcare facilities, the educators, the kindergarten helpers and, in particular, the day-parents, because this is very important for the rural structure. Today is a good day for the families, agree!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e7287	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Fuchs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e7308	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! High house! Values Watchers at the gallery! Unfortunately today is not a good day for the families! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Lopatka: This is a mistake! What are you once satisfied with?]] The double budget 2014/2015 seems to be a budget of records, but at the expense of the families. [[Abg. Lopatka: millions in addition, and you are not satisfied!]] [[Abg. Fekter: Don't you like it to the families?]] Public debt increases in 2014 to the record of 79.2 percent of GDP – the sixth negative record in a row! [[Abg. Lopatka: Wrong speech! Wrong seat caught!]] The deficit explodes in 2014 to 2.7 percent of GDP and is expected again by the Minister of Finance in the form of the structural deficit. Where is the tax relief of the families? In addition, the government also celebrates other records, in the negative sense. Austria has seen the highest increase in labour costs among monetary union countries. According to EUROSTAT, labour costs per hour in Austria increased by 18.9% between 2008 and 2013 to an average of €31.4 per hour. Top managers are already threatening to emigrate abroad. But the reason for this increase in labour costs is not the real wage increases, because net per capita income is unfortunately stagnating for 24 years. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Regrettably, the higher labour costs for the workers and thus also for the families prove to be real as a minus. Where are justice and social compensation? In the previous year, a study by the Swiss large bank UBS, which showed a sharp decline in real wages, was still severely demented in Austria. The National Bank had calculated a cumulative real wage increase of 10 percent over the past 14 years, but the Oesterreichische Nationalbank is more often than not, as we have seen at the Hypo. Inflation, higher taxes and taxes – especially cold progression – eat up the collective contractual salary adjustments year after year. This is what the government's social justice looks like! However, the government's tax policy can also be read very nicely at the tax and tax rate. On average, 49.1 percent of the gross wage that employers have to pay is collected by the state. Almost 50 percent! ==References====External links== The tax increase decided on March burdened local taxpayers and thus families with €1.2 billion a year. The increase in family aid is just a drop on the hot stone. We also have a record unemployment of over 400 000 people. We are calling for a relief from the work factor. The entry rate must be reduced to 25 percent! Progression levels are constantly adapting to inflation. And the additional wage costs should also be reduced, not only in homeopathic doses of 0.2 percent. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Otherwise, unemployment will remain at record level. A tax reform can also promote growth, Mr. Finanzminister! As we have heard, there will be almost no tax increases, but also in the election campaign, tax increases have been categorically excluded and then introduced at the record rate with the Tax Change Act 2014. – So much about the credibility of the government's statements. Moreover, the savings of the Federal Government are completely unstructured and planless. Just as the Federal Government distributes funding according to the principle of foundry, so it saves the Ministries according to the lawn mower principle. For a proper tax and structural reform, the Federal Government seems to lack courage, and families suffer from the massive tax burden. However, it is the Minister of Finance when it comes to the scrapping of the middle class and the families. Due to the non-adjustment of the progression stages, the Minister of Finance has won €2.24 billion in the previous year, and this year it will be € 2.65 billion. Is that not a tax increase, Mr. Finanzminister? – This is a tax increase, without Parliament’s decision! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This double budget is the reflection of the Federal Government: brave, diletantic, without the will to design and reform; in short: a declaration of bankruptcy cast into figures. I wonder, How long do we want to afford this government?
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e7429	Next item is the report by Mr Julian Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e7479	Madam President. High house! – Ah, Mr President! [[Abg. Lopatka: is good with the greens!]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Sorry! [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Abg. Lopatka: Where is the club lady Glavischnig actually? Where's the Kogler? Is lunch break with the greens?]] In short: Unlike in education, where we find that the budget is really going in the wrong direction, we find that the family allowance is, so to speak, gentle, but still in the right direction, because the family allowance is not reduced or this long-term reduction in family support has at least a little bit of an end. But we also believe that it takes a little more to meet the demands of the future a little more. The family allowance is absolutely important for many families in Austria. Especially for young people in training, she is one of the most important support available so that, for example, when studying, one can focus on training and not have to do so much next to it. Since the Voluntary Act – which was a very good reform – it is now possible for young people, for example, who are in the voluntary social year or in the voluntary environment year, to also receive family support. Family aid is very important for all these groups. In my opinion, the fact that family allowances are now slightly increased is a good step. The problem is that in the last thirteen years, family aid has never been adapted to inflation. This means, for every family, that the family allowance today is €500 a year less than it was thirteen years ago. The current increase of 48 € a year, so of course there is already a big gap. This is a real problem for families, because it simply makes life more difficult, but also for students who already work 60 percent, about 20 hours a week, alongside their studies. It does not make life much easier for family support to fall so much in recent years. That is why our proposal goes in the direction of increasing family support and making a clearer index adjustment and, as a state, looking at the fact that the money is not going into the hypo, but really where it belongs, namely to the boys and to the family allowance. To this end, Dani Musiol and I have also made a request. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I believe that a second point needs to be reformed in the case of family aid: The transitions are partly relatively bad, for example for boys who volunteer. In the voluntary social year and in the voluntary year of the environment, which many of you will know, it is true that around 700 young people in Austria – around 90 percent of them are young women – who do not do the federal army or civil service, still want to volunteer for a year: in the care sector, in the hospital, in a sports club, in the volunteer fire department and so on. The problem is, however, that during the period from the Matura to the beginning of this voluntary social year and after the end of the same period until, for example, the start of the study or further training, there is no family allowance. This is different among the civil servants and the people who make the federal army. I think that's a gap we have to close. We Greens think voluntary engagement of boys is great and we cannot punish it as a republic. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There are also some allies for this: The Caritas, the Diacony, the Catholic Family Association, but also the Federal Youth Office all find that there is absolutely a reform. At the end of the day, however, I would also like to say, in general, that: There is a simple bill that the Federal Government has not really understood in my opinion Education plus Budget is the same future. [[Keeping a sign in the form of a school board, which reads as an addition: “Education + budget = future”]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Lopatka: We already understand that simple bills!]] I got this follow-up panel before. Before Parliament, the representatives of all the youth organisations in Austria have indeed protested and have given me this board so that I can show it here in Parliament today. [[Abg. Brosz: Also from the boy ÖVP!]] [[Abg. Lopatka: A little green!]] And that's why I'm asking you, on behalf of all the boys in Austria: Please stop the savings in education! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e7608	The next item is the speech by Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e7629	Mr President. Appreciate women ministers! Dear Colleagues! Dear spectators on the gallery, but especially dear spectators on the televisions! The “children are the future of our country”, Mr. Vice-Chancellor stressed today in his budget speech. I can say that it was essentially addressed, a trend change. He also said, among other things: We have a debt mountain. I would like to rebaptize this debt mountain to "Government Mountain". Please, to do today as if he had fallen from heaven is a cheap excuse. It's bad enough with the Hypo Alpe-Adria. This is a "nuancerl" against the failed reforms, the necessary reforms in the field of debureaucratisation, the necessary reforms in the area of social security mergers. – No, client policy will continue to operate and everything will be pushed to the Hypo Alpe-Adria because it is up-to-date. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] But we are really talking about this “violent” increase for the families – it’s just too hairy – about €4 a month. Here I have a little bit of the Supermarket cash, which falls into the area of food and is often eaten as a necessary basic food. [[The speaker shows a m&m’s Sackerl and a children’s surprise egg.]] These two things cost exactly 4 €. That's the reality we're talking about. And now the hard thing is coming: It was addressed by the Budgetary Act. It decided to increase the engine-related insurance tax of 10.5 percent. With us in the country, every mother and every family needs a car to move on somehow. With a 70 hp car – this is a mini car – the increase in the insurance tax on motor vehicles is €4. So we're talking about increases, and in the same breath, families are getting the money back. And now it's all tragic: The families are already 33 percent in arrears. You said it, Madam Minister: Since 1999, family aid has been no longer adjusted for inflation. Therefore, families can no longer afford several children or the already existing children. There it is hypocritical to say that we want to prevent the families from coming to the poverty line. Mr Strasser, you have said that we want to become the most family-friendly country in Europe. This is what Hubert von Goisern thinks of. He wrote a song, that's what it said: Far, far away. [[Abg. Lopatka: Go!]] We don't need any studies. Mrs Karmasin said that we need an analysis of child costs. – Let’s take reality! Let's talk about practice! We know what children cost in the country. We know how important children are for the future of this country. So let's give the kids a chance! – This is the main problem: that something else is said than is actually being done! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] But we have – thank God! – also mayors who take this very seriously, like the mayor of the Salzburg municipality Berndorf Dr. Josef Guggenberger. Also the Salzburg State Councillor Hans Mayr, with whom I have telephoned today, is enthusiastic about this model – a compensation model where families who care for the children at home receive an amount of 113 € per month. Mr. Mayor Guggenberger and Landesrat Mayr would be grateful and happy if the objective of the “Berndorf model” – a participation of the countries and the federal government – could be achieved. I believe that this would be a valuable equality between these families and those who put the children into a hord. Here, in the sense of the families who want to shape themselves and train the independent citizens for the future, we have to act much more targetedly, much more flexible. I can say the following: I have just said how bad the situation on the labour market is in the Committee on Budgets. The well-known roof plate company Eternit in Vöcklabruck could sell much more goods, they would offer attic. Ladies and gentlemen! We're so far away that we don't have experts at the companies anymore. I think that is an illustration of this policy, how to deal with the appreciation of manual work, as well as the appreciation of families, of educators and parents. I can say clearly: Our family image is a very clear “father-mother-children” image, which is the ideal idea. In addition, of course, there are other forms. We invite you to create a family- and child-friendly environment for a good future, for the most important in our society, for the most important cell in our state: Children and families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e7691	Now comes Mrs Mag. Meinl-Risinger to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e7722	Too bad, I've been looking forward to the Zuckerl. Mr President. Mrs Heinisch-Hosek! I hope the Minister for Family Affairs will be here soon. Before I talk about it: Mr Wöginger, you have spoken here of the dignity of this House. I would think that it was also a matter of the dignity of this House, a certain minimum of intellectuality and the spiritual possibility of having a differentiated debate. [[Abg. Lopatka: There is another dignity meant!]] I have to tell you that. [[Abg. Lopatka: Go! Don't talk so well! Not so down from above!]] It's from above. I have to tell you, dear ÖVP, that your attacks are so low-level that you almost have to worry about the situation you are in. It's hypocrites. [[Congratulations with NEOS and Team Stronach.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] You know very well that the current deadline solution is a hypocritical solution, because it is very likely to be very long for embryo-pathogenic reasons, almost until the birth of the child. [[Abg. Lopatka: Not so arrogant!]] This can be addressed in a calm manner, and that you use it at such a level actually shows that it is true what the commentators are writing in the paper again today: You're quite “the rice,” obviously. That's it! [[Congratulations with NEOS and Team Stronach.]] [[Abg. Lopatka: What is that: “the rice ”?]] Since it has also been said that when we talk about the budget and the debt situation, this would not be the case with regard to family policy. [[Abg. Wöginger: Very family friendly!]] That's where I've got to say: Of course, this is the case, because the situation of families is not only very much dependent on what transfers are provided or what is done in the tax or in the in-service sector – I still do – but, of course, to a very strong extent, also on how much money remains for families and how high the tax burden is. [[Abg. Wöginger: You will have to explain this first!]] In this respect, it is very likely that it will not be possible for this federal government to expect substantial tax relief in the next few years. Mrs. Family Minister is here, I am very pleased. [[Abg. Lopatka: We too!]] I would like to say to you: It is when one criticizes that this is too little, not “blasphemous” – you said that earlier. It is not the government of God, and if you criticize it, it is blasphemous – I wanted to align it to you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Lopatka: Well, so down from above again!]] Maybe it was a lopsus, no idea. [[Abg. Who's superlative, Mrs. Colleague?]] – But it’s true, excuse me: It's not blasphemy to say that 3 € a month is a little bit! [[Abg. Wögerer: Just how it suits you!]] I would like to ask that we stick to the subject, and then we also save on Sunday's speeches. [[Abg. Lopatka: Where is the “nut sieve”?]] Today we have heard – and I am very pleased of course – that Austria should become the most family-friendly country, children are our future. - Wonderful! [[Abg. Lopatka: Where is the “nut sieve”?]] How do we measure family kindness? If you quote a study that the population of Austria feels that Austria is not family-friendly and you may have the goal that you can evaluate and say in ten years, Austria is now more family-friendly, then you can also invest a lot in expensive advertising campaigns and perhaps also achieve this goal. Now I come to the jumping point, which is an effect orientation. We welcome the increase in family support because it has long been overdue. [[Abg. Lopatka: After all! It took a long time!]] – No, that was what Mr Strolz said earlier; You just had to watch out. [[Abg. Listen to me!]] [[Abg. Lopatka: He talked to the hypo!]] Cash benefits are a topic, and benefits are the second. Especially in the field of benefits in kind, we will continue to focus today on the fact that the effective orientation of benefits in kind, namely the initial funding, has never been reviewed by the last Federal Government in any way. So the question is: What happened to that lot of money? President-in-Office of the Council Josef Moser said that they spent a lot of money, but they did not see the consequences. What has actually happened in the federal states? How many places have been created and in what quality? I now come to the next point, namely family aid or family support in Austria. Federalism is, of course, a huge topic here. By means of Court of Auditors reports, we know, among other things, that there are countless funding – 117 funding when looking at the federal government and the three federal states. Here I would like to appeal for these double-tracks to be addressed, especially in the area of family support. I come to the final point, the FLAF reserve fund: You do not explain in your budget how you actually want to reduce this deficit from 2014 – here are very high liabilities. I think we need structural reforms. This includes also looking at what is financed by the FLAF at all. Because we also know from studies that many non-family benefits are financed from the family compensation fund. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you very much. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Reciprocating.]] [[12:37]] [[12:37:20]] Ordinary Call
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e7993	Mrs Meinl-Reisinger, although it is not possible to call a solution to the matter, to refer to a legal arrangement as “hypocritical” – that is what you have made – that is not possible – but to call a party and a person “hypocritical” – whatever you have made – I must give you an order call for it. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: I did that!]] [[Abg. Lopatka: That's too much!]] [[Abg. Stroll: Now we know what this is like.]] The application submitted by you is properly supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e8122	Mrs Kucharovich has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e8143	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear ladies and gentlemen here in the High House or via TV or live stream! Before I speak on the matter, I would like to say something to Mr Strolz. Matthias, I'm seriously asking you the question: Do you prefer to have young people on the street and in no education? Do you prefer having young people who don't get a place to live? – You speak continuously of debt making and you do not see where money is invested. [[Abg. Stroll: (a hippo holding money in height) That's why it goes! 52 years of debt!]] We do not stand for young people to be on the streets, have no education and no job, but we really want to offer the young people in Austria a perspective. And that's why we don't talk about debt making every time, because it's investing in young people, and that's very important to us. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Podgorschek: Debt making leads to unemployment!]] I would like to say one more thing: I also attended the action this morning, I also received this board, namely from the BJV, from the Federal Schools' Office and from the ÖH. It's quite clear to us: Education plus budget is the same future. And that's how we act in the SPÖ! I just want to underline that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Brosz: That wasn't serious right now, was it?Unknown term type: "%s".?]] This draft law extends part of the family benefits in Austria – I emphasize: a non-essential part! – This is about increasing family support. This is a call that I have supported since I was politically active and that we have repeatedly raised in the youth organizations. Today we can also realize it. And that's what we're looking forward to. Some of you will say now or have done so in their words already, that this is far too little that the amount is far too low. In total, however, it is €828 million, and sometimes – and I think you talk to the people too – a few euros more a month, very important for children, young people and families. Let us think, for example, of students who often turn around every cent a month, or of families who just don't deserve the world. And exactly the one we represent from the SPÖ and exactly behind them we stand! That is why we are pleased that we are going to decide on the increase today, because no one would have anything to say about speech and even more wishing, just as some colleagues have already said today. From students: I pointed out in one of my first speeches here in the House that the increase in family allowances should not result in the disadvantage of students receiving study aid. I am glad that this will not happen and that students must not be afraid of it. Then: The increase in family allowances also makes a further important contribution for students. I would like to address the following point, ladies and gentlemen, and especially young people: Some time ago, we decided to pay the family aid directly. That was only a partial success, quite openly said, because young people from 18 years of age For this to happen, the parents still need signature. Unfortunately, this depends on the good will of the parents and on the relationship with the parents. But it is adults who are here, and that is why we, Mrs Family Minister, are really called for or called for, because we are making an improvement by really creating a direct payout and thus independence for young people. That's very, very important to us. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A sentence has already been said several times today, namely: Family policy means more than financial benefits. For me too! Family policy also means making investments in the form of benefits in kind, and that means providing benefits in kind. They are extremely important for children, young people, families. For example, the expansion of child cribs and kindergartens in order to be able to really live child and job as well as to offer really casual schools where children simply feel comfortable. We invest in these things, too. I do not want these measures to fall under the table today either. And: the paid dad-month – a demand that we stand quite clearly behind and where we hope that movement will also come in and that we will be able to implement it soon to get more fathers in Karenz. Dear colleague from the Stronach team! Family policy is not just women's policy. I would like to tell you this at this point, because you have only spoken of mothers here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One thing I would like to say at the end, because I am no longer speaking in the context of the family debate: Finally, let's take the step and let's all give you a back, really – and Mrs. Heinisch-Hosek has addressed it – to live a modern family image! Whether heterosexual or homosexual, whether male or female, whether with child or not: In Austria, we create further framework conditions where all have the same rights! Let's finally be modern and let's not stick to things that are just not the way some of you would like! And in my opinion, that is also very, very good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e8252	The next item is the report by Mrs Lamassoure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e8274	Mr President. Appreciate Mrs. Ministers! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) There is a very beautiful sentence of the German philosopher and writer Manfred Hinrich, who once said about the families: ‘family’ is ‘coust and resistance nest’. I think this shows very, very nice and very clear, away from any romance, which family provides stress sheeting and that family is the institution, the essential institution that is to prepare or prepare for life. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But for family to be able to fulfil this task, of course, there is a need for sufficient framework conditions to be developed by the legislator. And the Minister of Family has done two things, including: First of all, to support families in the fields of money, time and knowledge, and second – that has already been addressed – to make Austria the most family-friendly country. By adapting the family allowance, even if it cannot be done to the extent that we all wish, a first step is taken in the right direction. Of course, it could be more, and of course this amount will not take the financial concerns of the parents, but I would like to know once again how all those who have complained about the debt mountain today on the one hand, but on the other hand constantly demand in all possible contexts: There must be more money, and there must be more money there! – and that will probably be another topic tomorrow – which is purely mathematical. I'd like to know. Overall, this is a sum of €828 million, which in addition benefits families during this legislative period. I think this is a very clear sign that the family minister has recognized the needs of the families. In this context, I should also like to point out: The FLAF, from which this will be financed, will again balance positively from 2019 onward. Very, very important to me is the area of increased family support. This is currently increased from € 138.30 to €150 this year and then to € 155.90 in two steps until 2018. That's 17,60 € more, and that's an increase in a more than two-digit range. I think this is a very nice contribution especially for families with significantly disabled children. They still have a proper “packerl ” to wear. There are many topics that determine the day-to-day course of these families, which also make their lives difficult. Financial concerns should not be included. That's why a great thank you to the Minister. In this context, I should like to make the request already mentioned. [[Quoted print version removed]] I'm coming back to the templates now. Previously, I mentioned that the Minister would like to make Austria the most family-friendly country. This is a very, very ambitious goal. But this has little to do with explanatory romance, but it has to do with the fact that it is essential for the economic location of Austria, if we want to develop and keep it well. Without families, without children no labor of the future, no one who researches, no one who does, no one who produces. Therefore, conditions are to be created that make it easier for families, especially women at the moment, to be employed and to say yes to the child. This means that it is not only about the financial benefits already mentioned and to be decided today, but also about benefits in kind. I would particularly like to thank the Minister for her very strong involvement, in addition to the expansion of institutional childcare, in the family and also in day-to-day parents. I think it is very, very important, especially in the structurally weak rural areas, to make it easier for parents, and especially for women, to reconcile family and work. I'd say, Today is a good day for the families. They will be helped both in the field of financial services and in the field of benefits in kind. And I would like to thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e8362	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e8425	Next speaker: Mrs Kitzmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e8447	Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners! Dear listeners at home on televisions! In the government programme, what is very motivating was to read that Austria is a particularly family- and child-friendly country. After a few months of office, unfortunately, the Lady has God's ministers, I must say, that it is not. While we have a maximum of 31 percent satisfaction in Austria with the families, it is 90 percent in Norway. And now these little increases in family benefits are coming. Of course we also welcome these and will carry them and agree to them, because better, as it is so beautiful, the spat in the hand than the dove on the roof. In this sense, this is already a certain improvement for the families. I should like to remind you that 1995 did not prevent the SPÖ/ÖVP coalition from even reducing family support. That was then 7 €, and these 7 € are now almost balanced by this valorization once. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gisela Worm]] [[New call of the abg. Gisela Worm.]] But in this case one cannot speak of a great relief from the families. Now I come to the annual valorization. [[Further call of the Abg. Gisela Worm.]] You don't need to dig in like that, you can say something about it afterwards. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gisela Worm.]] I am now speaking about the annual valorization! We have already made a number of proposals for the annual valorization, and we have heard very clear statements from the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who is also prepared to carry out this annual valorization, but which fails to do so in the inconvenient coalition pact, which is clearly not possible. However, there are also statements made by the honourable Member, which she made at an ÖVP Women's Round or Women's Round in Upper Austria, and the latter unanimously decided at that time that there should be an annual valorization of family aid. Shortly thereafter, we in the Family Committee here in Parliament, because we meant that we could together do something for the families, put in a request for annual valorization. And what happened? You won't believe it! Mrs Tamandl, who called for the annual valorization in November, and the Members, who called for it two weeks earlier, voted against it in a natural vote. - What are you doing?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Höbart: Typical ÖVP!]] Are these two weeks in between the reason you don't bring this here?- Oh, my God! [[Call the FPÖ:Holy!]] I am very clear to you, ladies and gentlemen, who these Members were. I quote from the Minutes to make it clear to all here in the National Council meeting how two-edged the words of the EIAP are. On the other hand, we voted against: Lueger, Holzinger, Kuntzl, Lipitsch, Knes, Ecker, Kucharovich, Meinl-Reisinger – which is absolutely unexplainable to me, but wursch –, Tamandl, Hammer, Prince, Fichtinger, Perch, Wöginger, Straser. And what does that mean? – The fact that what the honourable Member said in Upper Austria about the women's survey and also in a press release did not hold even two weeks. – So much about the promises of the ÖVP in terms of family! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For this reason, I would like to make the following request again today: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is true that nothing is done in this area. There is talk here of a special improvement of the multi-child families or an increase in benefits for multiple-child families, but how does it really look? – The fact is: The next years, including January 2018, there will be 20 cents per month for two children and 40 cents for three children. Is that an increase where you can say: Now that families have really got power, the family is strengthened and, so to speak, commissioned to have more children!Unknown term type: "%s".? Or: Increase in siblings. – A special hoon: ==References== July there are 60 cents for two children, 1,98 € for three children! Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, do you believe that the 31 per cent can increase satisfaction in family policy? – Certainly not! [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today you have the opportunity to agree to our request and finally to do something for the families, because you are absolutely unbelievable among the families. This applies not only to the ÖVP, but also, in particular, to the SPÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e8561	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Kitzmüller is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e8613	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Aslan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e8634	Mr President. Dear Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at the gallery! So far, the increase in family aid has been discussed, and I am surprised that my colleague has not spoken about her request concerning stopping family aid exports abroad, but I am going to comment on this. This FPÖ application is not only illegal in the EU, but also discriminatory, because: The parents working in Austria also pay the same contributions to FLAF as other parents and would thus be less effective. [[Abg. Deimek: Have you studied Jus?]] We believe that this FPÖ proposal has not been concluded. [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] What about the countries such as Sweden, Luxembourg or Finland? If the cost of living is higher than in Austria, Austria would logically have to pay more. Why does FPÖ not show us the other side of the medal? The change is already unrealistic in Austria, but let us assume that there is a change. This would mean that Austrian citizens would be seriously disadvantaged by these changes. Have you also considered what bureaucratic effort these changes would bring? – The cost of living would have to be adjusted annually in the respective countries. The share of family allowances granted to children living abroad is below one percent. According to a 2011 FPÖ request, 99.29 percent of the family allowance was transferred to domestic children in 2009. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: (Applause) Wow!]] The largest groups abroad include Germany, Slovenia, Hungary, the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic. Turkey is not involved – as it says on your EU election posters: Turkey not in there! [[Abg. New builder: Is Turkey in the EU?]] I am saying this because FPÖ constantly spreads false facts and claims that Austria is paying family aid to Turkish children in Turkey. This is a false claim. There is no family allowance for children living in third countries. [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Third-country nationals will only receive family allowances for their children if the focus of their life is in Austria and their children also live in Austria. But, of course, for Turkish children living in Austria, family aid is also paid. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The agreement with Turkey was terminated in 1996. Don't be angry with me – but actually I don't care if you're angry with me, because: They're talking about facts that haven't been there for 18 years! [[New condolences with the greens.]] Make Please do a successful research work and do not come constantly with your hetze! Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, you are so sensational that you are able to perform record performance again and again, unfortunately, record performance in the area of wrong claims. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e8729	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Darmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e8751	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Appreciate to seeers on the gallery and at home! I will only lose two words at the end of my speech to the speech of the honourable colleague of the Greens, because I am concerned about this issue, which has come today from Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance Spindelegger in his budget speech, where he claims or called for the first priority, whether it is to create a family-friendly environment in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! Only this statement and the personal praise of this federal government – including the government fractions – in connection with the increase in family support are an increase in Austrian families. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Unfortunately, that's said in this hardness, because almost in the same breath – that's just a month ago, on the 1st. March – in which, with several tax increases to the Austrian families, the current increase in family allowances has already been taken out of the pockets, to stand out here and say that one is still the family party and one looks at the families, that speaks for itself, but unfortunately against this government and against Austria as a family country, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have therefore adopted a different approach, and we are now discussing this request here, namely the request to stop family aid exports abroad. This is a request from the liberals, who had already received support from the idea in 2010, namely, the then Secretary of State for Finance Lopatka, the current Klubobmann of the ÖVP, who at the time himself put up this claim, with figures that in 2010 for 41 000 children, €50 million of Austrian taxpayers were transferred abroad as family allowances, in the EU, in the EEA area, and without any objective consideration of the cost of living in these regions, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In other words, the Republic of Austria allows for luxury, at a time when its own families are being circumcised and do not experience this appreciation that they actually need to experience, beyond the state borders in the EU and in the EEA area for children who live there, do not live in Austria, to pay up the family aid at the level of Austria, the whole difference to the full Austrian family allowance when a parent of these children is working or unemployed in Austria. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Or slightly worked!]] I tell you, this can be done without any material argument and without regard to the living costs of the Austrian families, the Austrian fathers, the Austrian mothers, but of course also the children! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is up to you, all of you in the Committee, to seek to make our request worse, it is up to you to sell the population, why you continue to transfer our taxpayers at an unwarranted amount as family allowances abroad, and not to your own children this appreciation. And for the Greens, on the way home: There are some unsuspecting legal experts, also mentioned by Mr Lopatka in 2010, namely Mr. Leidenmühler from the University of Linz, Mr. Arbeitsrechtler Marhold from the University of Graz, Mr. Sozialrechtler Mazal and Mr. Constitutional Judge Heinz Mayer, all of whom say that there is a legal possibility to implement this also in accordance with European law. No one claims that it is easy, but we are not elected as Members of this Parliament in order to put in place simple measures. It is feasible and it is only up to us to be active in the sense of our Austrian families. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e8821	The next item is the speech by Mr Huainigg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e8843	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! The disability policy is characterised by the objectives of inclusion and equal participation. And an important basis for people with disabilities to be self-confident is that they can lead a self-determined life. the parents who lay the foundation for this. We often forget these great achievements, but they find it very difficult to find a replacement in the care or to put work and family under a hat. You also have to fight for inclusion in kindergarten, school and later in the working world. That is why I welcome it, and I would like to thank Federal Minister Karmasin for the fact that the increased family support is also increased particularly, from now 138 € to 150 € and up to 2018 to 155 €. I think this is a great recognition of these achievements too. [[In the case of the ÖVP, the members of the SPÖ and the Agg. Doppler.]] This problem has already been addressed: If they are not able to work, young people with disabilities will receive the increased family allowance indefinitely. This is an important performance of security. However, disabled young people often want to try to get out of the sheltered workshops and reach their own income, to be workable, and there is a fear that if they fail in the labour market, they will no longer get family support. This too is to be regulated by law by summer, and I would also like to thank the Minister for that. But it also needs a change at the orphanage. There is a similar problem, and there the Minister for Social Affairs is called for, but he knows the problem and will certainly take action. Ladies and gentlemen! The recognition of the benefits of parents with disabled children is also part of the human dignity, and not only that is why I am also in favour of the inviolable human dignity being anchored in the Austrian federal constitution. This is not the case at present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e8891	The next item is the speech by Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e8912	Mr President. Minister! High house! First of all, I should like to warmly welcome the delegation from Salzburg's Landtag. I'm very honored that you're here with us today. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ as well as with representatives of ÖVP and Team Stronach.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, family allowances abroad. – Mr Darmann has already mentioned it: This federal government has everywhere to wear the weaning pants, everywhere, only with its own population! For children living in the EU and working in Austria, the Austrian family allowance must be paid without taking into account the actual cost of living abroad. There are well-known European legalists who conclude that reduced family allowances for children living abroad would not be unlawful. If there were an adjustment here, Austria would save itself the proud sum of about €50 million. You should not ignore that either. In addition to the normal family allowance, there is the increased family allowance paid for the normal family allowance. Precondition: The degree of disability of the child is at least 50 percent, or the child is permanently unable to provide for himself. I ask you, my dear friends. Ladies and gentlemen: How is it possible for increased family allowances to be granted if there is no health restriction? gen available? The only reason, dear friends, is the lack of knowledge of the German language. There are also cases like this, and that should be abolished as a matter of urgency! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e8964	The next item is Mrs Fichtinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e8985	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear visitors to the gallery! Dear TV viewer in front of the screens at home! High house! It has been said many times today, but I would like to mention it again: Family and children are one of the highest goods in our social life. The gradual increase in family support is therefore an extremely important and a proper step towards the relief of families. As the increase looks, it has already been carried out several times today, it can be seen quite clearly. Children with special needs are also provided by increasing family support. That's how it gets with 1. This year, an increase of 8.4 percent in this group. This is certainly an improvement and makes Austria a lot more family-friendly again. I can stress once again that a total of €828 million is spent. That's a signal, ladies and gentlemen, that proves we're here for our families. I would like to make it clear once again that a family grant payment abroad does not happen as it is always claimed. Family allowances may be granted only to children living in Austria or the EU, the EEA or Switzerland. No family allowance is granted for children outside this zone, i.e. for children in third countries. Agreements with Turkey, for example, have already been terminated in 1996, I should like to say once again. Apart from that, these demands are problematic as regards the EU directives, since they do not allow such a change because of the prohibition on discrimination. A change would entail considerable administrative burden: A total of 32 countries – 28 EU countries, 3 EEA countries and Switzerland – would have to be evaluated in terms of performance levels. In addition, regular valorization would be necessary, the cost of living could change. I do not think I need to explain the cost of this. An example might be that other EU countries also pay family allowances for children abroad: If, for example, a family lives in Austria and the family father goes to Germany as a frontier worker to work there, of course, Germany has the main purpose of providing the family aid. Finally, I would like to stress once again that every child of the ÖVP is equally valuable to us, and this has been demonstrated by the increase in family support. I am sure that we are on a good path, and it is certainly a good day for our families today, as Mr Wöginger has already pointed out here. Thank you to our family minister for her commitment to our families in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e9043	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I have no wish by the rapporteur or the rapporteur for a final word. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First vote on agenda item 2: Draft federal law amending the Family Allowance Act 1967 and the Childcare Act, including title and entry into 87 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. - That's unanimity. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This, in turn, is unanimity. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Meinl-Reisinger, colleagues in the area of triggering, or partially family-related benefits from the compensation fund for family allowances. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. This request is therefore rejected. The vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Strasser, Lueger, colleagues on the manufacture of legal certainty for people with disabilities in the area of increased family support in the event of failure of a work attempt. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign. - That's unanimity. The application is therefore accepted. (E 16.) vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Kitzmüller, colleagues, on the legal anchoring of the annual adjustment of family aid to inflation. Whoever is here, please give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is therefore not accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 3: Request by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 117 of the supplements. Whoever is here, please give a sign. - That's the majority. The application is therefore accepted. [[13:18:12]] 4. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 291/A(E) by Mr Edith Mühlberghuber, ladies and gentlemen, on ‘Real freedom of choice for our mothers’ (118 d.e.b.) [[5. Point]] Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Re Families by ensuring adequate support for family care (119 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e9190	We now come to points 4 and 5 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are therefore going into the debate. Mrs Mühlberghuber is the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e9220	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! From a liberal point of view, a family policy oriented to the benefit of children and families is a genuine freedom of choice, which allows families to decide for themselves whether they prefer to care for their children at home or to have them cared for in a childcare home. For child care benefit: In order to achieve real freedom of choice for mothers, the system of child care funds needs to be further developed, because the clear majority of families choose the most popular variant of the five variants that really comes best, namely the variant 5 with the 30 plus 6 months, with the 6 months to be used by the partner. In many cases, however, she cannot use the second parent for professional or financial reasons. In addition, this system also disadvantages single and single educators. Therefore, we demand that the sub-regulation be deleted and that the payment of the child care allowance of this variant be extended to 36 months in general, no matter which parent, whether the mother or the father, would like to use this variant of the care allowance, because the parents themselves know how to divide it, and the families themselves should be able to decide on it. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] At the time of birth: Employment protection and dismissal protection is currently ending with the second birthday of the child. This is illogical, because the right to child care benefits for a parent goes up to 30. The child's life-time, and thus any legal protection for the last six months, is missing. Here again, we call for an extension of the leave period from two to three years. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now on health insurance: The insurance protection for mothers and children ends with the chosen variant, i.e. after 30 months at the latest. Mother and child are then vulnerable if there is no partner. We also call for an extension of the insurance scheme for all child care benefits to be extended to three years. With this request we want to achieve that mothers can stay with their children for at least the first three years, if they want to, without having to purchase material, labour and insurance disadvantages. I would like to address the Greens in committee very briefly. Mrs Musiol, you do not want to hear the word 'election' anymore. That's what I'm asking myself: What do you want? Do you want to make a commitment? [[Abg. Musiol: Not in this context!]] Do you want to give the children in foreign care as soon as possible? Do you want our children to be state-owned? [[Abg. Musiol: I will explain it to you again!]] - That's not what we want! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Families can organize themselves, they know exactly what's good for their child. We do not need the greens, and our children too do not need the greens!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e9290	This is what Mrs Le Pen has to say. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e9311	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The freedom of the individual ceases where the freedom of the other begins. – This could be given as an answer to this request, which is entitled “real freedom of choice for our mothers”. In this case, it would mean giving mothers more freedom, there they take the fathers. Today, it has been scientifically proven that both parents are equally important for the development of a child, in different ways. But this also means, of course, that both parents also need time with the child. We have taken this into account as a legislator by giving the fathers the opportunity to participate in the five child care variants – and because the issue today is freedom of choice, I stress the five very expressly. Well, it wasn't always that way. My older daughter was born in 1985. I had exactly two options back then: I was able to go back to work immediately after the mother's protection or take one year to take care of Karenz. I chose the second option, and I enjoyed this year. I enjoyed seeing my child smile for the first time. I enjoyed hearing my child say “Mama” for the first time. I enjoyed watching my child discovering the world. I enjoyed this year, very consciously, and after that I was very happy to get back into my profession. The father did not even appear in the legal framework at that time, maximum as a nourisher. You speak of freedom of choice in your application, and you – or perhaps it is not important to you at all – ignore the fact that with this freedom of choice for mothers you restrict the freedom of the fathers. But I am convinced – I know this from many conversations with friends of my daughters – that the young men do not want young men to want to participate in the lives of their children. And I sometimes think of how many of those present, maybe some older gentlemen have not already said: It would have been great if the first smile in my child’s life had taken place, it would have been great if I had been there, as my child said “pa” for the first time. I think there's a lot of people who say that. In the present application, you want the partitioning scheme to fall in the long variant of the child care allowance. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] They want only the mother to be able to take advantage of the 36 months. We want more fathers to benefit from legal opportunities. We call that freedom of choice, therefore a clear no to this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e9355	Mrs Gartelgruber is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e9376	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Perch, I can't really take everything out of your argumentation. The problem we already see here, of course, is family income. Unfortunately, it is mostly the fathers who deserve more, and single parents are unable to really exploit the entire 36 months. This is an unequal treatment of single women, and it is intended to do so. You know, it is important to us that single-minded women are not disadvantaged, that is why my colleague Mühlberghuber's request. But I would like to talk about the Berndorf model. We also want to ensure the freedom of choice for family care. That's not for no reason. For us, it is essential that families have the opportunity to care for their children themselves in the first three years, and should do so. In this context, it is also important that every family can shape this time according to their own ideas, that is, have real freedom of choice. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Care places for children under the age of three, according to a study by the Austrian Institute for Family Research, cost up to €1 118 per month. These figures are from 2007, which is why we can certainly add 10 percent to the current inflation costs. But these are costs that the families who care for their children themselves in the first years save the public. In the sense of equal treatment for all families, it should therefore not be seen that these additional benefits for society will not also be paid. On the one hand, this is about monetary compensation for work, which otherwise needs to be financed by society and the state, and on the other hand also about the appreciation of internal family childcare. I can already hear the arguments that some of my colleagues are going to blame me again, namely that I want to hinder women from working. But no, not at all! I can tell you that women also give their children to the crabhouse if they are not in employment. In 2011, for example, 44 percent of mothers were not employed in Vienna. Therefore, this argument certainly does not hold true here. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: Where do you have these numbers?]] There are also mothers and fathers who like to stay at home, but unfortunately cannot fulfil this desire for monetary reasons because it fails to finance. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: Where do you have these numbers?]] Thus, it would be only right and reasonable to pay these benefits for society, at least in the amount of minimum security. And even if you don't like it: This model already exists in a small community in Salzburg, in Berndorf, and there it works great. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e9432	Mrs Ecker. — (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e9453	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The motion for a resolution tabled by the FPÖ is based on the model practiced in the municipality of Berndorf in Salzburg. Berndorf is a neighboring community of my community, which is why I know the reactions to this model, both to the local population and to those in the surrounding communities. This so-called Berndorf model subsidizes parents, as already reported, who care for their children at the age of one to three years at home. At first glance, this model looks great, but a closer look does not last because it is simply a mogel pack. The model only supports the families who can in any case target those who do not depend on a second family income. The Berndorf family allowance is very difficult because it is seen as income and thus reduces the minimum security. Unfortunately, the grant does not help financially poorer families. [[Abg. Gartelgruber: You have no idea!]] The position of social democracy is clear and unmistakable [[Abg. Kitzmüller: You have no idea!]] We are for universal access to childcare facilities, so that even worse placed families can have their children cared for without disadvantages. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the Berndorf model, we see a pilot balloon for all those communities who want to press ahead to create or run childcare facilities in the future. In addition, families are free to choose if there is no childcare facilities in a community other than this model. [[Abg. Kitzmüller: You have no idea!]] At present, the Federal Act, as already reported, provides for five child benefits for children, and it allows for a shorter stay at home by higher monthly payments. The Berndorf model therefore does not fit with the Federal Act or with the protection of termination. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Thus, in the communities of enormous pressure could arise on financially poor families or single parents who depend on a childcare facility. [[Abg. Garter Gruber: Such a fool!]] With this pressure, I not only mean looking for a babysitting place, but this pressure also goes in the direction of moral pressure to let the children take care of them at home, so as not to stand as a mother of prey or as a father-in-law. We from the SPÖ are quite clearly opposed to this play-out, and in the current resolution of the FPÖ, it is really about this play-out when it is expected that childcare facilities will be more expensive than the “herd premium” for the woman remaining at home. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kitzmüller: That's crazy what you're saying! And badly read!]] Whoever recognizes himself in every day of the profession today knows how difficult a return after a longer break is. Thus, some time ago, the Chamber of Labour and the Association of Industrial Workers has developed a model of family support, which provides for a shift from a monetary and fiscal family support to a qualitative extension of childcare. In my opinion, therefore, the communities are required to increase child care throughout the whole area, namely child-friendly and family-friendly, all year round, while respecting the legal holiday requirement of five weeks, but also – and this is very important – the right of children to vacation. Only in this way can the compatibility of family and work be facilitated and employment as well as career opportunities made possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e9574	The next speaker is Mrs Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e9596	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! Madam President, we are firmly convinced of the power and self-responsibilities of the families, and this is the reason why we want to abolish the division rule. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We believe that it is necessary for a couple to be able to make up for themselves, who stays at home for how long and who uses the childcare allowance. We do not believe that that couple should be discriminated against where – admittedly – and that is also finely so – very often the mother, sometimes also – at my The last child was like this – the father takes the child's money into account, completely, since there should be no disadvantage. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Secondly, to the freedom of choice in general: I would like to mention again and again, and I am proud that for the first time, this concept of 'presidency' has been thrown into the debate on childcare. It was in the nineties – perhaps some remember – that the discussion had arrived in a dead end. There were those who said: We want more childcare facilities! – Of course, you – and on the other hand, the ÖVP – is always ten years behind, and then it took over 80 percent of the Socialists – in a so-called conservative garment that said: [[towards SPÖ and Greens]] No, we also want to promote care at home, especially through the mother! There was no more fore and back, and there we said: Let us decide those who are really affected by it, we hand over the decision to the parents! That was the hour of the birth of “poison, ” and we are still proud of it today, and we stick to it to this day. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It's not only in the Constitution, it's actually like: The decision to raise their own children is an elementary right of each parent. Also because, if something goes wrong, it's mostly terrible. If the bond between parents and children fails, then those who suffer from it are parents in an elementary way. And that is what I say here, especially with regard to the care of the little ones: The bond between mother and child is the closest bond that can exist. If it's cut, it's all broken. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We also attach great importance to the fact that, under the freedom of choice, the freedom of choice between the care facilities outside the home and family care is also seen. And, of course, this freedom of choice exists only then – Mrs Musiol, I am certainly not in agreement with you, I know what you are going to say now – if it can be done without economic pressure. If I only create childcare facilities and then say: Go work, dear people, you have the opportunity, there is the childcare facility, and we get you a job via the AMS!, this freedom of choice is not guaranteed. Because there are many young mothers – that says every survey – and by the way, fathers who say they could do it without economic pressure, they would rather care for their children at home longer than this is possible today. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Therefore, it is not a recovery of the childcare allowance, but rather an extension. I mean, we don't forgive ourselves if we, as democrats, take the voice of young people seriously.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e9677	Mrs Mag. Musiol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e9714	Mr President. Mr Jarolim, I also find it very encouraging that I have already been replicated before I even gave a speech. This shows that my statements have been remembered in the committee. It is not often the case that committee debates are taken seriously. [[Abg. Gartelgruber: With us always!]] Of course, I would be more pleased if I had already convinced you at the time, but of course I do not give it up, because the steady drop hollows the stone. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Let me once again explain this with the “free choice”. It may be, Mrs Rosenkranz, that FPÖ was the first person to speak in connection with childcare. At that time I was not in politics, and I must admit how likely most of the Austrians I have not followed the political debate with this acribie, as you have now done looking back. But the word “poison” did not invent FPÖ, just as it did not invent the word “freedom, ” even if it is in its name. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would like to explain once again what I understand as ‘the freedom of choice’ in relation to childcare, and I have said so in the Committee. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: You invented the word “green” behind the ears!]] It is only when all the framework conditions have been created that we can speak of freedom of choice. This includes, on the one hand, enough quality places and, on the other hand, of course – I give you the right – the sufficient offers on the labour market to make a living-proof income and then to choose this or that variant. As far as the problem description is concerned, we are not so far apart. We also see the current child care money variants as problematic. We hear of very many parents who are in this situation, that it is difficult to choose a variant at all, because you don't even know what is coming. We know all these discussions. And of course we also see the problem – we have already pointed out several times – of the separation of this long variant with the protection of termination. But our answer is another one. We say, in the light of the background, that it is no longer as easy to return to the labour market after three years of staying at home, let alone move forward in the company itself, and in the light of the fact that all women who have already reached the retirement age now think that it is absolutely necessary to take action at the beginning because they are now facing poverty: Let us remove the three-year variant, but of course only provided that enough places are created. As you always point out that the three-year variant is the one that is most used: Of course! Let's just look at the childcare situation in Austria. It is not surprising that if you find such places or no places in some regions, then you have to choose the three-year variant and not the two-year-old. I have to tell you one thing: What you have said about mother-child bonding today may be true. But it is an insult to all those fathers who are very well aware of it. There are many men in my area, there are also some here in the house, Mr Steinhauser, for example, who, according to their self-understanding, have of course also taken up child benefits in Karenz. I would never want to agree to them that they had at least one bond with their children as much as the mothers. And this should also be said here that we should not play these two groups against each other. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] On the topic of single-parents: We also see the problem in a similar way, but our answer is another; and it is very realistic. What do single parents do? – As a rule, they create another environment, namely their own parents, friends, siblings, which replace the missing partners in terms of care. Why do we not extend the possibility of child care to these social parents, whether they are grandparents, new partners or anyone else? Let's talk about it. Let us also talk about why fathers who no longer live in the common household can not go into Karenz. That too should be regulated. We live in a time when many couples do not stay together for all their lives, even at the beginning when the child is still very small. You have to find answers to these situations. One last thing about the Berndorf model: We simply reject it, because the Berndorf model is one where the mayor and the municipal council are trying to get out of their commitment to create high-quality childcare facilities. Child care facilities are not only care facilities, but the term I have just used is wrong. It is also about education, and it is for all children. It's not about spending time with the kids anymore. The ideas that are created for this are peculiar – you don’t hear when the child first says “Mama”. This can happen even if, for example, I'm just standing under the shower or my child's just with my mother. Then I don’t hear it when the child says “Mama” for the first time. So stop operating on such drastic ideas in this context.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e9787	The next item is the speech by Mr Prince-in-Office. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e9808	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Taking into account the statements made by my two previous speakers, I have the impression that the measures taken by the Federal Government and also the ÖVP are valid, which position themselves in the middle between the fundamentalist positions in one direction, but also in the other. It could be said that there are very different considerations. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: So average!]] To set up initiatives to the benefit of children and parents, as formulated in the Liberals' motion for a resolution, means, and this is clearly confirmed, not necessarily to do the best for families. One speaks of freedom of choice for parents, but the very opposite would be achieved with this request. Freedom of choice means providing various opportunities for childcare, for the provision of child care. And the family can decide according to personal needs and needs which variant is chosen. As a rule, a family still consists of mother, father and children. There are many different models in Austria, four package variants with the 30 plus 6 months, 20 plus 4 months, 15 plus 3 months and 12 plus 2 months and the income dependent child care allowance with the 12 plus 2 months. And for the sake of completeness, you can say: More than two fifths, almost 42 percent, receive child care fees over the long version, i.e. 30 plus 6 months. And it is not a matter for us to touch or remove this variant. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is also noteworthy that about one fifth is found in the income-dependent variant. So it is important that we continue to work to develop this. The ministry is working on it, which is very essential. This development is crucial, because if we want freedom of choice, we must meet this freedom of choice in practice and make it even better than before, in the sense of all, and in the sense of a modern family policy, which refers not only to mothers and fathers, but also to the needs of children. We stand for diversity and freedom of choice. The family situations are very diverse and individual. That is why the motion for a resolution has rightly been rejected in the Family Committee, and that will not change here either.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e9857	The next item is Mrs Holzinger's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e9878	Dear visitors to the gallery! Estimated citizens at home in front of the TVs or who are on the Internet! Dear Colleagues! The proposal to promote family-internal childcare addresses a subject to which we should all pay a great deal of attention: the family as the social core of society, the appreciation that mothers and fathers deserve for their valuable work every day. Mothers and fathers make an extremely valuable contribution, make a great job to offer children a loving home, to give them a place of safety, but also to give them the start – and here I am exactly at the point that is very important to me – in a successful and self-confident life. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: She speaks of “Job”! That's how they see it! Job!]] It is therefore important, with the unfortunately limited resources available to us, to ensure the best possible mix of direct support for families by means of transfer services already provided by the pension fund and by means of benefits in kind Our task is to choose a right approach and to give the right incentives. It is our task, and I am speaking in particular of the rural area, to put the existing financial resources into proper use. In rural areas in particular, parents may not be able to provide their children with care because it is not possible for professional reasons. In this context, I have to address my home country Upper Austria. In the current budget, €350 million was reserved for the extension of childcare facilities, but most of these funds are not collected by the conservative state government, especially from my home country, Upper Austria. That means the money doesn't reach the parents either. We must pay more attention to the fact that it is also there. With regard to the return to working life after the baby break, there is a need for special support, as a longer stay at home, and I address the situation of women in particular, then can have extremely negative effects on the pension. Mrs Karmasin! Their goal to make Austria the most family-friendly country in Europe is to think and go towards family-friendly working hours for parents, because in my opinion, parents need not become more flexible, but more family-friendly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e9913	Next, Mr Magistrate. Hammer to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e9934	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Estimated colle- Been and Colleagues! Finally, I should like to make a few points on the current item on the agenda. It is interesting how we have tried to understand the issue of freedom of choice in the debate. The fact is: Freedom of choice, and this has been understood in some speeches, but not in others, because this freedom of choice has been understood in such a way that the state or the public prescribes how to care for the children, i.e. true freedom of choice, as we understand it, requires a mix of appropriate financial facilities for families and the provision of attractive childcare facilities. Without talking about the Berndorf model, I would also like to highlight the difference between urban and rural areas. In many communities child care is very well organized and the parents are satisfied with it. In any case, you should also see that and not always make any rules. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On child care allowance as such and the discussion on: My previous speaker, Nikolaus Prinzhat, has already introduced that it should not be spoken badly. Rather, the current situation should be given the opportunity to be pleased that families also take advantage of the diversity of the different models. In all possible variants these offers are accepted by the families. This suggests that the parents and the families agree accordingly, and that further development towards an even more transparent and flexible child care account provided by the government programme is the logical next step, which further improves this. In principle, however, this system is absolutely well positioned. Freedom of choice also includes the possibility of division of professional activity, and I cannot share the opinion of some of them, because, above all, part-time work allows many families, the profession and the family to agree, and this should be promoted and not always represented in a way that devalues them. Part-time work is worth the families Goldes.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e9985	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteurs do not wish to conclude. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 4: Proposal from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 118 of the supplements. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. Vote on agenda item 5: Proposal from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 119 of the supplements. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign. - That's the majority. This request has also been accepted. [[13:52:24]] 6. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (88, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law on the Enforcement and Enforcement of Maintenance Claims with a Foreign Reference (Foreign Maintenance Act 2014 – AUG 2014) (91 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e10050	We're now on the 6th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. It is the first honourable Member to report on the matter. Nice to meet you. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e10079	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I am pleased to have the opportunity, after a controversial item on the agenda, to open the debate on the next item on the agenda with my speech. At this item on the agenda, we have the opportunity, which is not so often available, to show the spectators that we are working together on constructive solutions and that we will all work together on this solution. It is about the Auslandshaltungsgesetz 2014, a law that will help citizens to enforce foreign-related maintenance claims, to get to their right even faster and even easier. The Foreign Maintenance Act pursues as key objectives the adaptation of the legal provisions to the Hague Maintenance Convention 2007, the improvement of the enforcement of foreign-related maintenance claims and the acceleration of proceedings by saving procedural steps and also clarifying legal provisions. In detail, implementing provisions for all Union and international legal instruments for enforcement are to be established. At the same time, the draft also provides for an application legitimisation by competent authorities. The intermediary of the Court of Justice in the communication of the authorities is saved. This helps people to get to their right faster, and we also have a potential for savings in the administration. The new rules on the use of collected amounts of money as well as the provisions on the implementation of specific measures relating to foreign maintenance claims are now being introduced. Finally, this proposal also includes the possibility of addressing the Minister of Justice ad personam. Yes, I believe that we are showing up here, and it will show up because it was already in the Committee so that we can all work together on good legislation for citizens. Hope last dies: Perhaps we could also take this example as an opportunity to do so more often in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e10122	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Mulder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e10144	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For single mothers – and rarely are fathers – a enforceable maintenance right is of great importance, of course, because it is the fulfilment of a right to maintenance, and that means that sufficient or more money is available for the child’s living costs. It is not always very easy to enforce the maintenance claim. The more complicated the matter is when different legal systems – my colleague has explained this – are making further difficulties for the applicant. That is why this is the case today. It is also particularly important, since a single implementing law is adopted and brought together with international law and Union law instruments. This is an enormous improvement for those concerned. The more simple and understandable the legal provisions are, the better the right to maintenance can be enforced. It is therefore also important to ensure that applications can continue to be submitted in the District Court, in which the applicants who are living. It assumes, as it were, the function of a transmission agency. They accept the request, supplements and also any translations which may be made and forward them to the Ministry of Justice. Regardless of that, the applications can continue to be filed with the competent authorities abroad, but that will rarely be the case. In practice, the central authority will probably be the Federal Ministry of Justice. Social policy should be noted that the increasing mobility of people will continue to spread in the future, and that there will be more cases in which a right of maintenance must be enforced with regard to foreign affairs, and that is why it is important that this law be adopted today. There are enormous improvements for those entitled, who are usually women, who, of course, need to do so urgently. Finally, I would like to say to you that, in our view, the end of the flag rod has not yet been reached in Austria's maintenance law. My colleague Worm will say something about this. Our aim is to further develop it into a maintenance security law. However, for people with foreign claims, the proposal for a law today is an important step, an improvement that we very much agree with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e10189	The next item is the speech by Mr Hübner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e10210	Mr President. Of course, it is not such an important step as the previous speaker claimed. Maintenance claims cannot be implemented much better and faster. Only the rules are simplified. It's easier to get to know each other, so it's easier to find a goal, but otherwise it's not much faster. We nevertheless agree, because it makes sense to regulate this clearly and in a law. There is, however, a small advertising drop, which has nothing to do with this law, and it is based on the laws we only implement here, the material laws, and these are the international laws on the recognition of foreign residence permits. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] That's not the subject today, but I'm just saying: This is not a problem for equivalent legal systems. I have no problem if we do so with Switzerland, Sweden or Germany, also with France, but there are many states that are the signatar states of the conventions that we enforce, which do not have acceptable standards in their legal order, because you can buy decisions there by 500 €. That's a problem. But we will not escape this, and we will not find a solution today in the course of this debate. We agree with this formal provision, but not without noting that we have already dealt with the problem and go further if we complete titles from countries. ecks that do not have the same standards as ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e10253	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e10274	Ladies and gentlemen! I do not think it will continue if we discuss today how big or small the step is. It may sometimes appear small to the legislator and is nevertheless a big step for those concerned. But there are also the reverse cases where the legislator believes that he is taking a big step, and in practice he only proves to be smaller. The fact is, in any case, that it facilitates and accelerates procedures relating to maintenance claims related to foreign relations. But if the issue of entertainment is on the agenda today – and I suppose Mrs Wurm will do the same – let me address it in greater detail, because it is, so to speak, only a part of what we are discussing today. We have problems with the right of maintenance that need to be addressed here. One of the biggest problems in maintenance law is that maintenance is often only a small part of what maintenance should actually do. We have maintenance claims of 20, 30, 40, 50 € per month; everyone knows that no child can be raised with these maintenance claims. - That's a problem. The other problem we have – and we know that – is that divorces are, of course, poverty traps number one or two in that country and that the maintenance debtors are sometimes faced with difficult situations. We still have the opportunity to exercise maintenance rights under the minimum of the maintenance debt, which in turn creates these problems. That is why the question arises whether we are not taking a step – and I think that is going to be in the same direction as Mrs. Wolf will perhaps argue – in order to create a modern social benefit, a kind of basic support to combat poverty for children and families in a sustainable way. This modern social benefit would be necessary. Mr. Justice Minister, I know that you are not really responsible for this. They are responsible for the maintenance advance, but not for basic maintenance, because that would be a social benefit. Nevertheless, I believe that we must face up to this debate. We have actually thought together before the elections to make a survey so that we can get the countries to a table – we need them without them, because they are responsible for social services, we can't develop the subject further – on the other hand, get justice policy at a table and really look at where, so to speak, the procedures, enforcement fails and where maintenance claims fail to be so small that we would need this basic maintenance security in order to prevent child poverty as a modern social performance. That is, our suggestion is that we take up this idea of a wider survey and now finally bring the six parties together into the dry. She was far in planning, but the elections have come in between. In this sense, I would suggest: Let's take the subject seriously, and let's get together again! The Federal Minister has also said in the Committee that could become serious with a maintenance reform in 2016/2017. Let us take the time in the context of a maintenance survey and work out the problems so that we can continue the subject in the grand. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e10325	Mrs Mag. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e10347	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have been addressed several times today with regard to maintenance rights, further development of maintenance rights, but I would like to say at the beginning of my speech that we are now making a gap in this legislation which will be very important to many. I am convinced of this, because asserting maintenance claims to enforce faster is an important step in the right direction. If Mr Steinhauser has now mentioned that there should be a further development – had already been the subject in committee – then I am very much of his opinion. You have us at the Committee meeting on 2 February. April can say that in your home, i.e. in the Ministry of Justice, work is being carried out to get a proper presentation, that we – and so I hope – come to an maintenance advance payment, where very, very many of the children who would be entitled to maintenance do not receive the maintenance or receive a very low maintenance, whether this will be in the sense of a law that will then be implemented mainly by the countries, namely minimum security, or whether there is a better solution, for me, that it is not a social benefit, where we will then again rely on nine different member states contracts, these famous articles-15a contracts, which take very, very much time and are also very complicated in implementation for those who will then receive the maintenance. [[towards the government bank]] These are once the single parents, mostly the women, and also the children above all. Today, at the beginning of the agenda, it has been said again and again by Minister of Finance Spindelegger: The children are the future of our state. On the other hand, this postulate is that every child is worth the same amount, always in space. There can be no difference here, whether the dependant, whether father or mother, is financially able to pay the allowance! In the Maintenance Advancement Act, which we now have in force, it is true that there is no advance in the case of the maintenance officer in an emergency situation, for example due to a disease. This is where we have to sit! Here it is our duty to do what we always say that children, that families do not fall asleep in poverty, because a parent cannot make a living because he cannot or does not want to do it because of me. Here we are in duty as legislators and should do so as soon as possible. The survey would be a good start.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e10387	Mr Brandstetter spoke on a point of view. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e10408	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, My much-honored da- Men and gentlemen! I would like to thank the judicial representatives of all the parties represented in Parliament very much for their constructive cooperation in the Committee on Justice. This is true of all the members of the Committee. This has been very helpful in all the projects that are in the process of decision-making today. We all know, not least through spectacular cases of the recent past, that family-law disputes, especially in families with care disputes in foreign relations, can create real serious problems. We will be able to solve these problems only at European level. Corresponding efforts in this direction are in progress there. But domesticly, we can always improve something in the field of maintenance law, and that is exactly what is to happen with the 2014 International Maintenance Act. It aims to establish a uniform implementing law for all international and Union legal instruments applicable in Austria for the enforcement of maintenance claims with regard to foreign relations. That's something! It was necessary to make amendments here because the Hague Private Law Conference and the European Union have established new standards for cross-border maintenance by means of the Hague Maintenance Convention and the European Maintenance Regulation. These standards are now to be fulfilled with practical life through the Auslandshaltungsgesetz 2014 by means of implementing provisions in Austrian law. The issues raised in the enforcement of a maintenance right from Austria to abroad as well as vice versa are often diverse: Which dishes are actually responsible? What right do they have to apply? Who will help you with the application? Do you have to make deposits? Can procedural assistance be obtained? Under what conditions can a foreign maintenance decision be implemented in Austria, and vice versa an Austrian foreign country? All these questions have so far been the subject of fragmented standards, which can partly be explained by the fact that historically not all issues could be solved simultaneously in an international instrument. For the first time, however, the European Maintenance Regulation and the Hague Maintenance Convention have been able to settle practically all the issues. The Regulation has been applicable since 18. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== The 2014 International Maintenance Act was still missing, because this is intended to constitute a uniform, modern and efficient implementing law for all cases of cross-border maintenance. This means that we can also abolish two older laws that are no longer necessary. Let me focus very briefly on the essential areas which are to be regulated and, above all, improved by this law. There will now be, as has already been mentioned, a central authority, namely the Federal Ministry of Justice. Furthermore, the procedure for submitting an application for or the enforcement of a maintenance order is regulated in a uniform manner. Due to the Union and international law, there was no too large a legal margin, but we used it to allow a slimmer, faster and, above all, more cost-effective approach in many detail aspects. This begins with the abandonment of all unnecessary intermediate steps. It can now contact the youth office directly to the central authority, the BMJ, without any judicial bodies having to be contacted between them. I am particularly concerned about the generous but cost-conscious procedure provided for in this law, which allows for the addition of a lawyer for applicants living abroad under 21 years old. Finally, necessary information should now be available in advance – of course, in accordance with the data protection principles – and can be passed on very limited to the corresponding central authorities abroad. It also pursues the purpose of saving the parties and the courts unsuccessful requests and simply facilitating enforcement. As a result, therefore, it will contribute to a simpler, faster and more effective enforcement of maintenance entitlements for foreign remunerations. This only strengthens the position of the dependant, since in the future it will also be more difficult – you have to say – to make the fulfilment of legitimate claims of their children or spouses more difficult or even to avoid. This will no longer be possible through this law. In my view, one can only agree with this concern of the law in favour of the dependant, because in the end this is a regulation in favour of the weakest in our society, in favour of the children. That is why, in order to address what Mr Steinhauser has said, I am always very open to discussions on further improvements in the field of the Maintenance Advancement Act, for which I am responsible, but also beyond that, because ultimately it is good for all of us to support regulations in the interests of the children and actually achieve improvements in this area. This law is an improvement, and so I ask for as broad a consent as possible. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e10494	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 88 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – The draft law is therefore also unanimously adopted at third reading. [[14:13:20]] 7. Point Report of the Committee on Justice on the Government Template (89 d.a._Other Organiser The Federal Act amending the General Civil Code, the Consumer Protection Act and the Consumer Authority Cooperation Act; and A Federal Law on distance sales and contracts concluded outside of business premises (FAGG) (Consumer Rights Directive implementing law – VRUG) (92 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e10551	We're on the 7th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Stefan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e10578	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Here we have to discuss a government paper that amends the General Civil Code and the Consumer Protection Act and adopts a Federal Law on distance sales and contracts concluded outside of business premises. The main issue is the implementation of an EU directive. It must be noted that Austria has a very high level of consumer protection. That's good and right. However, in this bill, we must find that some things are unclear and obviously overwhelming. Essentially, this law is an information requirement. There is a law on distance sales: ‘Before the consumer is bound by a contract or its contract declaration, the trader must inform him in a clear and understandable manner of the following’ – and then 19 points come, sufficient 19 points, about which the trader must inform before the contract is binding. Then it goes on to say: ‘In the case of contracts concluded outside business premises, the 19 previously mentioned ‘information to the consumer on paper or, if the consumer agrees to provide on another durable medium’, they ‘must be readable, clear and understandable’. It all sounds so far still very good, but in practice you have to imagine what that means. An example: An installer emergency service is called on weekends. The customer has a problem, but of course does not know exactly what it is, he only has a wet spot somewhere, so he calls this installer emergency service. What's he gonna tell him on the phone now? What can the installer really offer? – In reality nothing, because he knows he has no information at all. So he can't offer anything. He then goes to the customer, has his belly shop there, up to 10,000 different parts he has inside, seals, screws, hoses and so on. He comes to the customer with journey time and all Drum and Dran, looks at this and says: Yeah, we'd have to switch this and that. And then he can go home again if he has bad luck, because of course he has not been able to announce in writing what has to happen. You couldn't offer that. The customer is not bound to anything, so he can send it back home. – Just one example of many. Other issues: legal professions, particularly lawyers, but also notaries. Interestingly, even for these, there are no derogations, although they are subject to special disciplinary provisions. It is therefore not fair that financial service providers are excluded, but lawyers or notaries are not. Legal advice is often given on the telephone. It would therefore not be quite understandable that this would no longer be calculated unless all these very complex information obligations were met first. These are just a few examples; there are several, and there are also some ambiguities in this law. There is also a sensible amendment tabled by Mrs Meinl-Reisinger and Mr Vetter, whom we also support. However, we believe that this draft law needs overall revision. If you look through more accurately and especially when contacting the practice, it simply turns out that this is impracticable. We are therefore asking for the referral back to this government template, which I read here. And I would like to make the request, the report of the Committee on Justice on the Government Template...: Federal Law amending the general Civil Code, the Consumer Protection Act and the Consumer Authority Cooperation Act and adopting a Federal Law on distance sales and out-of-business contracts..., to refer it back to the Justice Committee’. I would ask you to understand that we must first involve practice, eliminate some ambiguities and then make a sensible decision on this regulation.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e10639	Mrs Mag. Steinacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e10660	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Appreciate fellow citizens! The consumer is what the voters' policy is for the economy. – I can only underline this quote of an economic publisher from the USA and find it right, because a functioning economy needs both the consumer and the entrepreneurs. The text of this template is somewhat bulky: Consumer rights directive implementing law, in short VRUG. This law harmonises the rules of play between consumers and entrepreneurs across Europe in the areas of business that are closed outside of business premises. Think, in particular, of the rules necessary to regulate trade throughout Europe, particularly on the Internet, which has increased extremely strongly in recent years. In most cases, consumers will be given the opportunity to withdraw from the contract within 14 days, and this will be relatively form-free. At the time of conclusion of the contract, as Mr Stefan has explained earlier, the entrepreneur must provide a comprehensive information to the consumer. I know that's an effort for the entrepreneurs. However, the EU Directive in the Annex sets out the relevant documents, namely the forms leading to the standardisation and simplification of this information requirement, but also to the right of withdrawal. Wherever it is possible to simplify standards, the directive proposes how to do so. Of course, we must start at European level if we get a directive to implement it. That is why I am very grateful to our Othmar Karas for making the removal of bureaucratic obstacles the focus of his European policy. As usual, consumer law applies: The guideline of the legislator must be the fair balance of interests. A strong legal position for consumers and the prevention of undue burdens on entrepreneurs are no contradiction. Aware of these objectives, I think, we have created a very balanced regime and today we have put this Consumer Rights Directive implementing law to the vote. 28 EU Member States will become 13 years old. There are clear rules on this issue of consumer protection in June. I agree to point out at this point that nothing is more important than that of the 25th century. To go to the EU election in May, because this directive was adopted in accordance with the EU's new legislative procedure under the equal participation of the European Parliament, and you, ladies and gentlemen, all of us have the opportunity to participate in this process in the context of our election to the European Parliament. This legal harmonisation also makes the cross-border economy clearer in the European area. That is why I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, who have not yet given your approval in the Committee on Justice of the Government of the European Union, to rethink this and to give this harmonisation and implementation of this directive today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e10708	Mrs Vetter. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e10730	God, Mr President! Say hello to God, Minister of State! High house! Ladies and gentlemen. Of course, an EU directive must be transposed, no. This has to be done by a government, otherwise there are the appropriate sanctions. This does not mean, however, that we have to say yes on every point and pass any EU directive without criticism. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] My previous speaker said that a party colleague of hers is very committed to red tape in the EU. It may be a plausible thing. But what this is really about is the creation of bureaucracy. “The press” wrote a few days ago on this subject: ‘Consumer protection by the market economy’. Ladies and gentlemen, this is really about – since we are looking at the fact that there is a wave of founders and a detachment that all possible people should become entrepreneurs – that exactly these people should be shaken with papers and they are obliged to make contracts, to clarify in writing, and so on, at a time when what to repair might already be over. Tacitus once said: “If it is not necessary to make a law, it is necessary not to make law.” Here we have an occasion where we should take this issue in hand. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] My, if I may say so, the Bar Association has sent out a particularly beautiful example: A citizen is arrested, comes to the police commission and makes use of his right to teach a lawyer. He didn't have one so far. The defender's coming. What does he have to do? First: The arrested person according to § 4 para. 1 in the case by § 5 para. Information in writing about the form laid down on paper. Secondly, The follow-up of this information provision according to § 5 para. Let 2 be confirmed on paper. Thirdly, After that, the arrested suspect according to § 10 para. 1 expressly confirm in writing on paper that the lawyer is to begin the performance of the contract prior to the expiry of the fourteen-day withdrawal period and that the arrested person is aware of the loss of the right of withdrawal in the event of full performance of the contract and of the obligation to pay due fees. Fourth: A confirmation of the signed mandate contract shall be handed over to the arrested person on paper. – You can imagine how the police are going to be happy, who are just trying to explain a crime if these bureaucratic things are to be done at some point at midnight in the suspicion of a commissioner. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in this sense I support the request for referral back and also refer to the supplementary request I have tabled together with the colleague Meinl-Reisinger, whom she will then explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e10821	I call Mr Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e10842	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not think you can say, of course, that the widest possible disinformation in the population of the Turbo should be for our economy. That would be similar to what Mr Vetter has just said. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, we can, of course, structure a grotesque out of everything, but one thing is quite clear, namely that in the past we have identified problems in terms of consumer business that we have to address in the final analysis. This is also the intention of the Directive: This is a question of education and awareness-raising, so that at last there is no longer the possibility of turning on something over the phone. It's called the Cold Calling. We don't know this from us, but from relatives. There are mainly older people or even younger ones over the phone turning on something and then putting the payment under threat of executive steps. Although the information was completely inadequate, some of the transactions are not considered to be void. This law is intended to bring together the information obligations. It may also be that this information is summarized in information sheets, in which this is explained relatively quickly. It is certainly better if both sides know what they are talking about, what consequences are there than if one side does not know that and then there is the unpleasant discussions. In connection with § 6b, I would also ask you, Mr. Federal Minister, to explain once again that in the cases presented here, namely also in the correspondence within the framework of the opinion procedure, the requirement that the telephone contact between client and lawyer must be free of charge simply does not exist. Rather, setting up such a hotline is primarily a means of resolving a contract that has already been concluded – that is to say, questions et cetera – and it is intended to ensure that it is not possible to create a new source of remuneration; only the costs incurred by telecommunications can be charged. That's what the law here wants to say, and I think that's good. If there are, in fact, interpretations in one case or another, where a court says that it is impossible for the legislator to assume a intention in this sense – because this passage of texts could also be more precise, I may admit – then one will improve accordingly. It is therefore important, from my point of view, that, in the context of the process of the creation of this law, it should also be clarified here today by the Federal Minister and also by the honourable Member, that these cases, which were also presented by Mr Stefan, are not covered by this law, but are exclusively about hotlines. To sum up, one has to say that this button solution is finally ensured, that customers only conclude legal transactions through telecommunications and computer, when they conclude by themselves, a sign that the contract has entered into force – instead of the contract being somehow created and the customer often did not know that he has entered into a contract. This condition is unbearable. I can say again: Disinformation and ignorance cannot be the turbo of the economy. That's why this novel is a good one. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e10901	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Meinl-Risinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e10922	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! My first criticism of this VRUG is also directed against the EU directive. Madam Commissioner, I am quite right in giving you the original problem is this directive which is to be implemented. By the way, Austria is already a bit late, because the implementation would actually have been up to 13. The aim is to ensure that companies have sufficient time to prepare themselves and make the appropriate adaptations. The key issue is the EU directive, I give you the right one. However, I would also like to say to the honourable Member who is working to reduce red tape, who has agreed to this directive. I actually wanted to avoid EU election, but in my opinion this is a sign that liberal forces belong to the European Parliament. - Excuse me. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] What's that about? . I share the objective of an informed consumer, but – and here I am contradicting you, Mr Jarolim – my deep conviction is that a rage of information, of forms, which are given, ultimately even countercarves this goal. What's going on? – The consumer is confronted with a paperwork that he – and we all know – takes more or less read. That is to say, this pre-accelerated increase in information actually creates unmistakable consumers, who then actually do not inform themselves about their actual rights. So I don't think we can create strong consumer protection with a more commercial economy. [[I should like to congratulate Mrs Mlinar and Mrs Vetter.]] This is, as it were, the criticism of this directive, which, in my opinion, is not based on a powerful consumer, nor is it aimed at creating a powerful consumer, but ultimately leads to an inconsistency. However, I also criticise the implementation, not only the late implementation, but also aspects of the Austrian implementation of this directive, which I find difficult. On the one hand, and that has already been mentioned by my previous speakers, there is actually no distinction between certain professional groups. On the one hand, there are professional groups which are legally binding – there are disciplinary regulations which are very, very strict – and which are thrown into a pot in some of the provisions – I said in the Committee – heaters. I feel that this is a problem. For this reason, I would also like to make another amendment, which I have already tabled in committee, together with Mr Vetter. This refers very explicitly to § 9 para. 2 of the new distance and away business law, which regulates that, in the case of a contract for a service concluded by an entrepreneur with a consumer, when the trader has called, the trader is obliged to establish and confirm this on a durable medium. If you are now taking the regulated professional group of lawyers, this brings already interesting case constellations. For example, if a permanent customer relationship exists and the client calls the lawyer, he does not fall below, but if the lawyer calls the client, he does. It's kind of funny. It simply does not match the objective and purpose of this regulation, namely to abolish these "cold-Calling" contracts. I am here with you very much, but this is not achieved by this regulation. Therefore, the following application: [[Quoted print version removed]] In addition, this version would have been intended. There was a change between the issue of assessment and the government document, which I consider to be incomprehensible. Finally, I would like to say: I believe that we really need to work to bring consumer protection into a single law. sen. Now it would have been possible to do so. This was probably no longer possible due to the delay. But I really want you to act to put this into a uniform law, because the fragmentation of consumer protection is not very effective either. I would also like to remind you of the government programme. On page 62 it reads: 'Legislation in consumer law, in particular in the implementation of directives: The aim is to make clear, simple, coherent and understandable arrangements that do not lead to over-bureaucratisation (e.g. B. Information requirements with an eye-to-face view). In the interests of market participants, a sufficient period of time should be ensured prior to entry into force.’; Since I find the law inadequate, I agree with the FPÖ's request for referral back to committee, even though I know that the deadline for implementation will of course be limited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e11041	The application is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e11103	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Aslan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e11124	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! With this novel, Austria is finally implementing the EU Consumer Rights Directive – in fact, because Austria was already in a delay and now has to go quickly. After the officials of the Ministry of Justice had completed a draft for a long time, it dusted in the drawer of the Ministry of Justice's cabinet. Now this government has all the hurry of actually putting the draft into effect by June. As we prepare the directive, we have already made a strong point of maintaining, in Europe, the comparatively high level of consumer protection in the field of consumer protection. In the negotiations, the Austrian Federal Government has taken the view that the full harmonisation should be directed and that it should be allowed to proceed with minimum harmonisation in those areas of consumer law where the Austrian regulations tend to go beyond those of the other European states. This has been most successful. However, it should not be mentioned that because of the different fields of application of the protection provisions, consumer law in Austria has not become better legible and therefore no closer to citizens. In future, we will therefore have to pay attention to the extent to which we can integrate certain contracts such as health services, such as package travel or certain financial services into the full scope of consumer protection law in Austria. The Cold Calling area, which is also regulated in the novelle, deserves special attention. It will be regulated that service contracts concluded by telephone will only be valid with the written adoption by the consumer, regardless of whether or not they were an unwanted advertising call under the Telecommunications Act. There was also a lot of resistance against this regulation. We still think it's important. We think that advertising calls in Austria are still a big problem This is the first time that the This proves, for example, the complaints recently collected by the Chamber of Workers of Carinthia about a telecommunications provider who tries to acquire new customers via aggressive telephone marketing. That is not enough for the current rules. We will take a closer look at whether the new regulations will lead to an improvement here. All in all, we welcome the implementation, which is why we will also agree to this proposal. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e11172	Mr Brandstetter spoke on a point of view. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e11194	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by referring to what Mr Vetter said here. On the one hand, in order to calm him down, I wish to expressly and on the other hand to maintain that this law to be adopted, the implementation of the Consumer Rights Directive, does not certainly include the arrest of persons by security authorities from the scope of the directive. So I think I can calm down. But, second, I really have to contradict you, dear Justice Spokesman, and I know how much you are right to quote your Tacitus, namely this beautiful sentence: “If it is not necessary to make a law, then it is necessary not to make a law.” In this case, it's wrong. It was really urgent to make a law, because – that is right, not a question – we are already very, very late in implementing this directive. We have done everything in my area to speed this up, but it has really become scarce. That's to admit. I don't like to say, Perhaps some minor uncertainty in the regulation or in the draft regulation could have been avoided if one had had more time. We didn't have her. But what does not mean is that All in all, it would be a bad package. I'm sure it's not. All in all, it really makes progress and improvements in the sense of consumer law. At all events, the amendments which are now contained here are partly beyond the directive. And it is clear that the directive has been fully transposed with this draft regulation and that further improvements in terms of consumer protection would also be achieved. It is clear to me that many things in this directive, for example, go too far from the point of view of the economy and that there the regulatory burden of the directive is considered too great – I know that! Of course, it is also very skeptical if, for systematic reasons, regulations in this Directive are extended within the country or there beyond what is necessary – this too has been criticized. Yeah, that's clear! On the other hand, I am also aware that we would have wanted to go beyond the directives even more out of the range of consumer protection. - Yes, what do you want me to tell you? The draft now before us is, as I believe, a sensible and viable compromise between these two positions, a compromise which, after extensive and quite lengthy, intensive negotiations and discussions, has been reached in which Mr Hundstorfer and myself, too, were personally involved. I think that this proposal for a law has also succeeded in finding a balanced balance between the naturally always different basic positions. I admit that a compromise is always only a compromise, but it has succeeded when both sides go to their borders and at the end on both sides still wishes and criticisms remain open. Of course, there are these, for example, in the field of the economy – as already mentioned – as regards the many-member and comprehensive information obligations that Mr Stefan has already mentioned, and also with regard to the consumer-friendly regulations that are too far-reaching from the point of view of the economy regarding the restriction of contracts by telephone or via the Internet. But with this – and this is the essential thing for me in the content of this regulation – unfair and excessive business practices in this area are proposed and provided for more transparency in the conclusion of the contract. The extension of the right of withdrawal, for which a significantly extended period of 14 days is now foreseen, is also an example of a balanced, fair consumer protection law. On the one hand, the consumer now has to bear by law because of the costs of returning the goods and then, if the product suffers a loss of value due to a use beyond the functional check, the trader is not obliged, on the other hand, to pay the trader a benefit fee for the mere use of goods without loss of value. Or I also think of the improvements that consumers now experience in terms of delivery time, in terms of the transfer of risks or in the case of extra payments, improvements which we have now included in the implementation of our consumer protection scheme and which, as I believe – and this has also been the subject of the compromise – are ultimately still acceptable to companies. All of this can be described in summary as a modern extension of consumer protection, and that was my concern. In formal terms, it must be acknowledged that Austrian consumer protection law has already become quite unclear by the heresy of the various consumer protection acts of Union law. In the long run, therefore, it will really be possible to consider whether one does not think purely formal here of a new regulation, which will then also provide an opportunity to introduce some clarification. That is quite right, in so far as I understand the corresponding suggestions that have come. In particular, what Mr Stefan said in detail, as regards the information obligations: I just wanted to point out – without wanting to go into detail – that we now have in the law a simplified information obligation for craft contracts inside. I think it's a good way to live with it. And to focus on it, too: As far as the contractual relations between lawyers and their clients are concerned, I believe that the report that exists here makes it sufficiently clear by the explanatory remarks on the government template that the concern expressed here by Mr Jarolim must ultimately not really be right. All in all, I believe, it is an important regulation in the interests of improving consumer protection. I can only take this up once again and under- Support: It makes sense to better protect those who may not have been needed and such phone calls have not really grown, with the result that then, because the consumer concerned has not noticed that he has entered into a contract, the first bills he does not take seriously, because he does not know that he has concluded a contract. Then the reminders come from the collection office, and that's how it goes. – This is excluded by this regulation. And the button solution makes it possible in any case also for internet offers that you can't easily be overturned in any form. . As I have said, I would ask you to agree to this arrangement. I say again, we're late, that's right. We are risking a infringement procedure here if we cannot ensure implementation and entry into force in time, but it is not – I do not want to leave this impression! – that you would have sent something on the journey from time to time, which was not really well thought out in all essential points. The ambiguities relate to things which I believe can be clarified by the explanations. In this way, one remains open – I confess –: It will not be possible to introduce a comprehensive clarification in the form of a uniform re-regulation in the field of consumer protection and consumer protection law at some point. Of course, I'm happy to have for that. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e11282	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e11303	Mr President. Federal Minister! Especially respect for Tacitus: At the time of the Tacitus, consumer protection was moderate. And it's true that you don't need a law for everything and everyone, but since Tacitus the world has changed enormously. Trade on the Internet is booming, and there is a need to bring order into the system here without controlling everything and everyone. You can't do that anyway, but things happen again and again like the following event that tells a friend – last but not least, a woman told me: She booked a trip on the Internet, thinks she's getting a bargain, and she's looking forward to this cheap trip, looking forward to a few relaxing days – and see: After a short time, she sees that she not only bought a trip, but thus obtained a whole insurance package without she wanted it, namely a travel insurance and other insurances. How does that come about? – Because when pressing the “Next” or “OK” button, it was not clearly marked that another package is connected to it. This should be stopped, and that is why we do not build up unnecessary bureaucracy here, but very well to give legal certainty to consumers, to give legal certainty in increasing Internet trade. Internet trade is something that is very strong. There is a number from 2006, where there have been over 3,000 online shops; now the number has increased by 75 percent and turnover has tripled: It is about €1.9 billion. This is only a small part of the total volume of trade turnover, but at least with the tendency to rise enormously. It is therefore important that not only the directive be implemented here, but also the safety of consumers: older people, young people, but ultimately everyone who has to do with it and who uses it. It is therefore important that such unwanted orders, as I have just described them, belong to the past. – Now it is ensured that there is an additional need to be made clear here so that the consumer can see that he is ordering something here when he presses the button, otherwise the business is invalid and this purchase contract is simply not achieved. This is important in order to protect, on the one hand, the serious providers on the Internet and, on the other hand, to protect normal trade from, as the Federal Minister has said, unfair competition, because it also makes it possible to gain a competitive advantage over the Internet, and that should not be so. The law is intended to prevent abuse in the World Wide Web and also to increase shopping pleasure there by not building unnecessary obstacles. The Cold-Calling contracts, i.e. the telephone marketing, have already been mentioned. – There is also a need for strict regulations and confirmation requirements so that consumers are protected. Of course, this means more burden for the economy, for companies, but it is about giving consumers a minimum level of safety, so that both sides can co-exist. As I said, it is also about the protection of those companies that work in a serious way, but in particular the protection of around 6.5 million business people who are potential consumers. There are some criticisms about the European Union. Austria is not a country that here says yes and Amen about all these regulations, but clearly tries to play an active part in this, but in this case it is appropriate to adopt and extend this scheme, not only as a protection for consumers in Austria, but for all throughout the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e11355	Mrs Magnette has now come to speak. Grossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e11376	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What is going on for a long time is finally going to be good, if you would like to say in this draft. The Consumer Rights Directive has long been in place. In fact, I have already used your predecessor to handle the implementation several times and I am waiting for an acceptable draft to be presented. I had to send some drafts back, so to speak, because they were not yet acceptable. You have now come up with an acceptable draft. In particular, it was important for me to protect really effectively from telephoning and the Internet, namely, really effective. The original draft, which Mrs Meinl-Reisinger has now missed, would not have been effective. A stop on this quoted § 107 Telecommunication Act would simply have been toothless, since we would not have achieved the effect we want to achieve. So there were still some points that I wanted inside even after the draft assessment, in addition to the extended information requirements for businesses and the considerably extended withdrawal periods for consumers from 7 to 14 days. The possibilities to complete legally binding transactions have become more diverse, that is also good. This gives the economy as a whole, and it also creates jobs. This is positive, but this, of course, also requires the appropriate protective equipment so that consumers do not lose confidence in these forms of business. And especially in the case of popular Internet shops, such as travel bookings, it was particularly important for me to take this quoted button solution in here, and not to fall behind the German level of protection, so that the Austrian implementation is not behind the level of protection of Germany, because we are, as it were, in a market and compete. This would have given the impression that in future in Germany one would have ordered more securely than in Austria, which of course would have hurt the Austrian suppliers very much. But I also do not want to hide the shadows of the draft law. On the one hand, there is certainly the short term: So there is a need for companies to change their Internet portals and forms in the short term, which is certainly a big challenge. And what it is not yet, this is a consumer/consumer protection right from a cast that is uniform and easy to understand. We should not lose sight of this objective, and I have observed your message, Mr Minister, here also very graciously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e11418	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e11440	Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Mr. Minister! The beautiful new world of growing sales includes Internet shipping, telephone shops, advertising trips, door door business. In this growing industry there are serious entrepreneurs, but there are also black sheep. To strengthen consumer protection clearly in these areas was and has always been a matter of the heart of SPÖ. And it's high time: The number of complaints to the Chamber of Workers and the Consumer Information Association amounted to 18 200 calls for assistance in 2013, including the cases of so-called Internet Absockery. The overrun of consumers through aggressive telephone shops and advertising on the doorstep should now really be announced by this law. However, I think it is a bit liberal wishful thinking to speak here exclusively of powerful consumers. The social truth is quite simply another. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] Consumer protection serves precisely to support people, sometimes with aggressive and extremely modern advertising methods and recruitment methods. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: But the trade...!]] I don't think you're right. This is where I appreciate the ÖVP as our coalition partner, which is a party to the market economy, but also the social market economy, and which also understands this social approach, quite simply also in consumer protection. [[Call the ÖVP:Ecosocial market economy!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Consumers thus gain in rights, clearly and clearly, in particular with the mandatory declaration of agreement of consumers on business statements on the Internet and on the telephone. In concrete terms, it is about the button solution, which has already been mentioned several times here today. On the Internet there are just presets for additional services. This can be very expensive for the consumer, and the costs are often kept unclear. Our new law aims to protect consumers from seductive, yes unclear, yes expensive order functions. Another key point is the effective protection against cold caling, also mentioned here, of aggressive telephone marketing. Pure telephone commitments to such callers will no longer be sufficient in the future, an answer, a promise via SMS will no longer be satisfied. This makes it more difficult for the unsavory providers. Yes, this government template is a compromise: On the one hand, consumer rights are strengthened, on the other hand, the law is practical and fully enforceable by the economy. What bothers me is if Tacitus is underestimated, and is greatly underestimated. Tacitus was always at the height of his social questions at his time, and Tacitus would not only have wanted this law to have written it himself. In addition, the SPÖ's election programme implements the project 62. I would also like to thank the Minister for his personal commitment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e11500	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote. First of all, the present referral request must be voted on. I shall vote on it immediately – I would ask for attention, ladies and gentlemen! – to refer the draft law back to the judicial committee in 89 of its supplements. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a corresponding sign. – That is rejected. We shall also vote on the draft law in 89 of the Supplements. There is a motion for an amendment tabled by Mr Mag. Meinl-Reisinger, Dr. Vetter, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I will vote on the part of the proposed amendment and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Mag. Meinl-Reisinger, Dr. Vetter, colleagues have tabled an amendment concerning Article 4. Whoever speaks in favour of this request is seeking a corresponding sign. – That is rejected. We shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to it to give a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the draft government proposal. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who have given your approval to give a sign in this regard. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – The draft law is also adopted by a majority at third reading. [[14:59:35]] 8. Point Report by the Committee on Justice, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 294/A(E) by Mr Mag. Philipp Schrangl, colleagues on the report of the Federal Minister for Justice on the progress of the Reform Group on the Criminal Code (93 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e11599	We're now on the 8th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I am now interrupting the negotiations on this item on the agenda. [[15:00:05]] Short debate on Question Time 819/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e11626	We are now entering the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Education and Women with the order number 819/AB. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with a speaking time of 10 minutes for the first speaker. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. I call on the honourable Member to: Dr. Scherak as the applicant for the request to open the debate. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e11660	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! The Minister for Finance has already mentioned how important international educational tests are and how we are in some cases there. The problem we now have is: We're conducting educational tests. In particular, we suspend the PISA test. I know that the debate has often taken place, there has been a urgent one, and perhaps you have the feeling that everything has now been said about it, even with your answer to the question. But it is precisely because of this answer, which is very detailed, which I welcome, that very new questions arise. I would like to make the whole thing happen once and think about what happened there and then come back to the concrete core. The story I'm now telling is also in the answer to the question, that is, I'm just giving back what came from the ministry. ==References== BIFIE and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that there was apparently a data leak or at the beginning there was talk of a breach of the data protection provisions. According to recent research, where no feedback came from this company, the Zoe Solutions, then became for the first time on 4. ==References====External links== The Ministry then also had several oral and written contacts and asked for an opinion. After a letter that was only available six days later and in which the BIFIE did not then indicate more precisely that it would be on the matter, it was obviously not asked any further. Only on the day of the release by the “Press” did we finally have this screenshot of the data leak, then we all saw it. It was only then that ad was refunded to the prosecutor's office. Now, in the answer to the question, you have repeatedly and carefully examined these problems. I'm doing a little hard when the whole thing lasts so long, because it's really about being careful, and I wonder why it only came to the public when it was brought to the public by the press. Contrary to the tenor that there was always this care, one has at least noticed from the BIFIE that at the beginning there was no real thought about what these warnings are on the part of this company, but it was just spoken of as a threat. This is all that is happening now, and I do not think that we can change much, that is to say, on this data leak. The question is: What happens now, Mrs. Minister? – You communicate, we need a test stop at PISA because the verification of data security takes so long that it does not result that no testing is possible. That is why we need to pause now, and the next date where we can do this is then 2018. There is the question of whether we have reference values, that the PISA study 2018 makes sense, because we can't compare ourselves afterwards if we don't do anything now. I think that is cynical when we had a long time to get hold of this data leak. For the discussion to see where the data leak is and how we get rid of this matter, was enough time, which I also think has lost in vain. But I would like to stress: For my part, it's not about credit allocations and that I'm still discussing this data leak for hours and trying to push someone a black Peter. The leak has happened and cannot be reversed. That's the way it is now. I don't think we should focus on the past here, but we should see how we can do the best out of such a situation as it happened now. And that's exactly what I'm gonna do to you because I don't feel the best has happened here and that damage limit is made. Everything was first turned under the carpet, so that it did not hit waves, and when it came up, it was said: No, it's too late now, unfortunately we can't do anything anymore, we have to stop these tests! – That is to say, we are now stopping the PISA test, and countries that are sure to have greater problems with data security than we, like Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan, Moldova and so on, are all doing this. Just us, let's stop it! Mrs Bundesminister, what I still do not understand is the following: Skill You don't want to do this testing or don't you want it? It has all been seriously interested in doing something, the OECD has extended the deadline for us, you have received offers from the University of Salzburg, you have received offers from individual federal states that have said they are doing this, they are doing it themselves. I believe that the essential question that we have also raised in relation to the Data leak is how this data came about to the foreign servers. In the final effect, it doesn't matter how it got there. This is no longer what is relevant and what is at the heart of it. The data are outside, several people speak of a criminal case. It can no longer be reversed, as has been said. But what you do in your reply is really the exciting one, and that is why we should debate this today. It is true that you write that the data regarding PISA was not at all affected by this data leak. You write in the answer to question 8 at the end: ‘Other data or databases with which the BIFIE works are not affected by this incident.’ – Therefore, the PISA data are obviously not affected. They also write on questions 1 to 3: “PISA data: the collection of student data is carried out indirectly personally and the Data Protection Commission has confirmed the correctness of the procedure when testing: BIFIE-Intern – PISA is basically only stored and secured on the internal IT infrastructure of BIFIE; electronic testing takes place via USB sticks without internet connection; no other partner companies are involved; Data will be passed on to OECD by means of an OECD application.” That's what I'm asking myself: Where's the problem? There are no partner companies involved, which was the problem with this data leak that something went wrong somewhere in a partner company. The PISA tests are not about an internet connection at all, but I have a USB stick, where I do this test, I collect it afterwards and transmit it to the OECD via an application. You say you can't handle data if you're not sure that the data can be stored safely somewhere. I understand, I think that's right, but, Mrs. Federal Minister, once again: These data are on a USB stick, which I have to take with me, store somewhere, put in a safe. You can also give it to me, I can collect it, nothing happens. And then I take this one application and send the data to the OECD. Nothing can happen at all, because we have no data leak that we do not need to discuss anymore. That's all possible – and you don't want to do it anyway! This means that it is not a question of whether data security is guaranteed, but it is simply not going to make you feel that there are other reasons why you don't want to do that. I think it's already been in the media that you think in the course of this test stop, maybe even in the long run, you're going to get out of various tests. Perhaps that's the real reason you just don't have an interest in doing this PISA study now, because you're just worried that there's no great results. Unfortunately, the last results were anything but good, but I still think it would be a disastrous announcement if we were to leave permanently now. I think it's a disastrous announcement now when we stop, and it's always a disastrous announcement, because these PISA studies are supposed to help us see where we have strengths, where we have weaknesses, where we need to change, where we can discover potentials and where we can make changes in our education system – and that's all our concerns – so that these results are not so bad. Now you can say against the background of the budget, we have to make savings. They can make short-term savings of 3.6 million. The problem is: We have already spent 900 000. As far as I'm aware, that all the printing costs for the arches. The 900 000 are gone. The question is, if the 3.6 million are the real reason, then these are short-term savings, but this is problematic in the long term, because if we do not have these tests, we do not know where we can change something in the education system. Then the mistakes in the education system remain, and then we continue to have the problem that a quarter of the 15-year-olds cannot read meaningfully – and that is much worse follow-up costs! I wonder where really the reason for this stop is, and he cannot be there that the data security is not given, because the data at PISA is transmitted via normal USB drives. That's quite easy, they put you in, there's the data on it, I take it, I transmit it via this application. All that has happened there has nothing to do with the PISA data, and repeat that you write it yourself in your request response. I don't think we can just lean back and say, Well, let's stop these tests, because this is a monitoring of the state of the state, which we need very urgently to know where the mistakes in our education system are. There are, as I said, just no reasons. You, Mrs. Minister, in the case of a budget mistake, have made new considerations with various inputs you have received. I think you should also do this in relation to PISA, because you yourself write that the data at PISA is not affected by any data leak, nor by any future, because they have nothing to do with it because it works quite differently than exactly these data that have come to us where the data protection leak was problematic. Mrs. Minister, I don't understand. I think the answer is, you don't want to do PISA. Otherwise, I can't explain it to myself. I also don't understand why you don't want to do PISA. I guess only you can answer that. What you have done in the request response is that you tell us quite clearly about PISA there is no problem with data security.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e11773	The speaking time of the Members who have now spoken shall be 5 minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Mag. Grossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e11797	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, of course, the news about the data abuse has all hit us deeply; and the Minister has also responded promptly and has also fully informed us. And above all, it has expressed one thing, namely that data security is a fundamental right. In particular, if the data of children and young people are affected, the highest sensitivity is required. The Minister has also responded to this with her measure, as it concerns the trust of parents and children in the security of the data, the test results. What do you think about the feeling that students will be subject to a test procedure in the future if it is not really a hundred percent – if you can accept it at all, but at least have the greatest – data security and can be guaranteed the highest data security; in the knowledge that there may never be a 100% data security on earth that no one can guarantee. But in any case, it is really the best way to rule out the risk that anything can happen to the data. After an obvious attack on the data, or is not to be ruled out, that even a criminal case exists – it was also switched on by the Federal Criminal Office – the scope of the incident was, of course, not really calculable. As a result, the Minister responds to the situation very, very responsible and prudently when at least once suspending the said tests. I am quite sure that, as I have already met many in this House, the Minister would not have acted in this way, she would have easily gone beyond all these incidents, as if nothing had happened, it would have been far more critical here, especially from your side. You'd probably have taken care of that. So there were all the steps to be taken. The BIFIE has been and will be tested. As long as this process runs, however, the testing is temporarily suspended for this reason, after all, particularly strict data protection provisions apply to the BIFIE. And it was, as I have said, that a comprehensive detailed examination, that is, beyond these incidents, was initiated. This has been explained in detail by the Minister in the answer to the question, which is already in place for examination. While it was possible to calm down – you have understood it so – that no further data are affected by the specific incident, this cannot yet be considered as a complete warning in the sense of a BIFIE free letter to do so as before. So maybe you can still talk about what you read out here, but you might have overinterpreted that. I would like to say that, in addition to the tests, the BIFIE fulfils other important tasks and also performs well, such as education monitoring, the new maturity and diploma examination, the applied education research, the national educational report, to name just a few. There is still much more to be done, important tasks, and also indispensable tasks. But I would like to reject a reluctance here, namely that, for political reasons, these test procedures are now being suspended – for what would be there for a reason? Especially these educational tests, such as PISA, have repeatedly supported socially democratically represented education concepts and supported them in the argumentation, just like the common school. Wherever these school forms exist, the students are better cut off, with all-day school forms. So, logically, there can be no political reason to suspend these test procedures. That's where your claim really goes empty.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e11848	Mr Asdin El Habbassi spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e11870	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Today is a good day for the children in Austria, a good day for the families and a good day for future generations as regards the budget path. [[Abg. Kogler: A good day for bad weather!]] I would like us to speak today of a good day for fact-based politics, and unfortunately we are not yet. Hope lives, Mrs. Minister, we're still there, but we're not there yet. Why do I say “fact-based education policy”? – Perhaps we are going back a step – Mr Scherak mentioned it earlier. We were in a situation where there were concerns either for security reasons or those were put into space, and it was right at that time that the good decision, as I think, was taken not to let the tests take place for the first time. You've taken safety measures, you've checked them. And this is also good because it is really about dealing with personal data properly in Austria and preventing any abuse or the sharing of personal data and testing. We also had the situation that the Central Matura was challenged for exactly the same reasons. In the meantime, we are at the point that the Central Matura God can be carried out thanks to a clear signal, so that all those students who have prepared for their matura can now also do so. But now we are also in the situation that the questionnaires for the tests have now been destroyed, 1 million € has been placed in about the sand. But the time has not yet expired for possible testing. This isn't just about PISA. Of course you can see these tests critically, you even have to look at them critically, especially if you have to draw the right conclusions from them. But it is not only about PISA, it is also about all the other educational tests that are not being carried out now. I think we should consider whether we really want to. When we look at PISA: We are here from the beginning, and we are now one of the few OECD countries that no longer carry out the PISA test, actually the only country that has carried out the PISA tests from the beginning and is now no longer carrying out. What I find even worse, however, is the following: By suspending the tests, we will not have these figures available for our decisions – for those of the experts and for all those who want to make decisions in the field of education based on facts, figures, surveys and the evaluations of results. This is about data series, which is about comparative values, which then no longer exist, even if only one year is suspended. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Cap.]] We should think about whether this is really what we're imagining. What makes me particularly robust is not only that in the answer to the question, PISA is basically only stored on the internal IT infrastructure of the BIFIE and secured, as the colleague has done, for which USB sticks and a secure connection are used via an OECD application, but also that we issue a decree of 4. On 7 April, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. Class of mathematics goes. This is about data being transmitted not only to the BIFIE, but now directly to the Ministry. These data are coded and encrypted, but sent via a very simple e-mail address to the Federal Ministry. That's what I'm asking myself: When it comes to safety, we also need to clarify whether such transmissions, in this case of pre-schooling results, are also targeting. I have not yet given up hope and I would like to make this known here again. I have now argued very fact-based. Max Weber once said that politics is made not only with the head but also with the heart. I hope that you, Mrs Minister, will perhaps also give a back on your heart and perhaps carry out this important survey, on which we should then build our education policy. – In this sense, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e11914	Mr Dr. Rosenkranz came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e11936	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! The courtesies regarding the quality of the pre-debate have already been exchanged between the coalition parties on interlocutory calls. I may begin by saying to my stranger that, contrary to the Usus, the Federal Minister did not reply here in response to the criticism of the questioner, Mr Scherak, which would have allowed one to replicate her view of things in the course of the speeches. That's not an obligation. So far, however, it has been practice. Well, we'll also be looking forward to it because in the meantime – yes, Mrs. Vice-Chairman and National Council colleague – I'm happy to see all that is being done here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] The Federal Minister has already said in several interviews that she has difficulty communicating properly. Maybe it's like that this time too. In fact, we are quite specific in a response to a question. Mrs Grossmann referred to the data of the students, which is quite sensitive. Did you actually read the request answer? Have you read what's in there? ‘For questions 1 to 3: Data from Informal Competence Measurement (IKM): No personal data are collected. ” The next area: “Data on standardized competence-oriented maturity and diploma examination (SRDP): no student data will be collected. ” “PISA data: the collection of student data is done indirectly in person.” It has already been mentioned on a regular basis that the PISA testing has not been carried out, as you are now saying, for political reasons, because the PISA testing has always and everywhere given right to the positions of the SPÖ. - Maybe a little later. “BIFIE-Intern – PISA is basically only stored and secured on the internal IT infrastructure of BIFIE” – that has already been read. So this is not on any servers abroad or anywhere else. Everything concerning PISA has remained in Austria. This is not just the answer to the question put by Mr Scherak. Mr Walser has also asked a similar question on this issue. That's all in the country. In fact, there is no corresponding data leak as far as the examination is concerned, which would call into question PISA in any form. The question is therefore: Why? If you say yes, a criminal case, because the BKA is concerned, then I have to stop it: Of course, every police department has to deal with an advertisement. But we'll kill pretty much everything. So we do anonymous ad floods, the police services are busy, and from the date on, it's in Os- Any “Werkel”? – Well, it can't be that! That's just because someone's making an advertisement. We have so far been left unclear by the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, as they say so beautifully, forensic intelligence or otherwise. We don't know if this is a virtual or a true criminal case. Except for an ad and what is determined, because you have to logically do it, nothing is there. Who's the culprit? One can also see from the answer to the question that this is obviously an exchange of letters with an IT company with several seats all over the world, including one in Klagenfurt, where it eventually ended the business relationship. And there has been a change of letter somewhere on a server, about BIFIE's demand. What is that a concrete accusation? What happened? – No answer or similar. That's very dirty, what's happening here. Only the statements, the answers of Mrs Minister – and therefore there is this discussion here – are clear. “PISA is basically only stored and secured on the internal IT infrastructure of BIFIE; the electronic testing is done via USB sticks without internet connection.” My question: Where do you now see the question of data uncertainty? Now on the political issue. It is not that the PISA tests result, the socialist and social democratic demands would be the yellow of the egg. No, just these tests have shown that the social democratic prestige New secondary school is one that is failing. And you know very well that the next PISA test would bring the same result again: The New Secondary School is condemned to failure. But the Social Democratic Foreign Minister is the one who expresses Nietzsche: What the belly doesn't want, the head doesn't let in.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e12025	Mrs Heinisch-Hosek spoke on a point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e12046	Mr President. High house! Apart from not having to report under the Rules of Procedure, I thought it could also be adequate if I listened to the opinions and came to the end. Since that's not nice either, I'll report in the middle of it. It is not a problem for me at all to refer to BIFIE-Causa's position. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Whether hope or heart, that is not important in this matter. I believe that “responsibleness” is the most important word and responsibility for something that happened on 24 May. February was picked up by a daily newspaper, which at the first moment was quite spectacular, but at the second, third look proved to be something where nothing can be understood. In addition to Internet addresses, e-mail addresses of teachers, which could be found anywhere, namely on the school homepages, were the encrypted data of students who did a pre-competence test, which had nothing to do with correct test results. But what was then? - The call was great. It was demanded that you take responsibility quickly and quickly. The result of this was that on 17 November, directly March, field tests for next- years of international comparative tests would have been expected. Since the criminal investigations are still not completed today – as far as I can tell you – we could never have started the pre- and field tests for international testing. Now in May, the field and pre-tests for PISA would have been for next year. First of all, we're still in the middle of this criminal-technical investigation. Secondly, TÜV Austria's Master Plan will be available during these days for the overall examination of this educational research institute. The new Matura can be carried out at the school locations that this Matura has already done in school. That could be clarified. You have to understand that in a first reaction I took on the responsibility of saying that before we know what's going on, we can't agree to further testing. No more and no less I did. There's talk of a USB stick that's never been evaluated anywhere. Half of these tests would be carried out on paper, and all these paper tests have context questionnaires that parents would complete. That means that they are very personal data. The prosecutor's office, the Federal Criminal Office, is still in the middle of the investigations. The field settlement dates are over, some of them are already overdue. If I had said that I would do so now, we would look at it and nothing will happen already, then I would have wanted to see you, ladies and gentlemen. To date, we do not know how these data have been reached on the Romanian server and whether human misconduct is also associated with it. That is precisely what is being examined. Even if the PISA data is supposed to be only on servers in Salzburg, when these PISA tests have been made, one has to see how safe these are and whether the people working there are dealing well with each other. They all signed something with regard to data security, no question. But if it turns out now that human misbehavior is also in play, I have to use it for the next few months not only to make an internal task critique. I should also like to remind you that every three years the funding for the educational research institute must be updated by law. In other words, next year we will have to decide again whether we want this basic funding to BIFIE, because we need fact-based data for our educational development, for educational research, to continue. Until then, time can probably be used very well to see how the house is set up, how it looks with two locations, one in Salzburg, one in Vienna, whether it is not possible to remember a redimensional due to the situation and the criticism of tasks. This master plan of TÜV will investigate the processes. At the end of the chain is the examination of data security. I was assured several times that this will take several months, because we are not only checking the server, but also looking at the processes and structures in this House. It was not a data leak, but most likely human misbehavior in connection with this disclosure, where, by the way, we haven't – and that's been shut down for a long time, but in the time I've been supposed to see the letter, the Cc has gone to me, has gone over my desk, no question – until the disclosure in this newspaper had insight. It was immediately, before Christmas, responded and tried to get access in Romania. We have not been given access. In the middle of January, I was told – and there I have to trust those who tell me that too, and I want to do so and so do: There's nothing there. We don't find anything. There's no access to anything. By the way, we know today that this daily has already had this access several weeks before, probably also had to research very much until she even saw something, and then this story has gone up. That is, I don't let anything come about this educational research institute first, because we all believe that we need fact-based educational data for further development. Secondly, I would like to say that I am not ashamed of international comparisons, not only because we were able to improve a little during the last of these tests, but because, if this were not the case, we would have to draw our conclusions as well. That is, to escape international comparisons is certainly not my thing, because I also want us to compare with other countries and that we are developing, above all, within Austria. On education standards: The next story we can't do right now I've already suggested. If everything is all right, we will do German 4, perhaps next year German 8 because next year everyone will do the new Matura. If there's some kind of overlap and strain there, then you could do that in two years. And believe me, of course, I'm in conversation with the OECD. I'm not sleeping either, I'm not saying where. I'm sure we'll keep in touch so that we can't ignore these things. Only, I couldn't have any field tests made that are conditional – without field testing there is no participation in PISA and in other international comparisons – if they were just where the investigations are running. And since I ask for understanding, maybe something comes up, I have said that in a radio show recently. I am already in contact with the OECD, and we are keenly interested that solutions may arise. However, it is premature now. Now we have to see that the educational research institute and everything that prevails there in dealing with each other in access to data is being investigated that this is comprehensible. Once the criminal investigations have been completed, they will also have the results, and then we will be able to take the next steps. But if you accuse me of being irrantious of everything and international comparisons, then I must resist that this is not the case. I am very responsible and have always said that you should use personal data and you have to deal with it very carefully. And I can't say: Nothing will happen anyway, is just a USB stick anyway, let's do it. There are, to say this again, context questionnaires with delicate data, where the socio-economic background is also asked by families, which we also need so urgently, because I believe that the resource distribution of the future will have to be measured, among other things, by how we use our resources in the field of education. And it's just important that you can use this data exactly. Data on education standards relating to: In my house too, it has long been prepared to be anonymized to be made available for research. No, no, This too is something I don't want to blame myself for: It locks up the data somewhere, and no one can do anything about it and research it. We want to develop further, but we certainly want to further develop. I cannot put an end to uncertainty in times like this one, but what is now being done must be brought to an end. It would be far too early to say something today to what will result, please forgive me. But I am very concerned that there may be something going on in discussions with the OECD.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e12156	I call Mr Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e12177	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr Brandstetter, I am pleased that you too are following our discussion. You make it difficult for us, Mrs Minister, to understand all the difficult situations, and to understand that you must first have an overview when making decisions. We all understand. But what we now know is clear: There's no data leak at BIFIE. By the way, I told you two months ago, if you remember. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jarolim.]] – Don't be upset, Mr Jarolim! All the experts have seen this, even if I may quote it to you, Hans Sacher. This is really the first address to arrive at data security. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Cap.]] - Okay, he doesn't fit you. Hans Sager said: It is ridiculous to call on data security when it comes to the testing stop. Hans Sager, please, say literally: That's a bad argument. – These are the words of Hans Sacher, the highest data protector! Andreas Krisch, member of the Data Protection Council, data security expert, all said the same. - But let's leave this aside. The core of the debate is that there is no data leak, Mrs. Minister. Core is still, you stay persistent at the test stop and say now, maybe then there is a possibility somewhere. I have also contacted Andreas Schleicher of the OECD in Paris, and he says: Please, 74 states are able to carry out this testing. Why should this not be possible for you in Austria? Mrs Minister, if we do not carry out this testing, we shall be giving up in the international field of ridiculousness. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the FPÖ.]] They also say that at first glance it was dramatic and the field testing cannot be carried out. Mrs. Minister, Andreas Schleicher tells us that the field tests can now be carried out. Andreas Schleicher tells us: If you do not carry out the field tests before the summer, Austria will receive an exemption from the OECD. The OECD is waiting until October. Please, there is no reason not to carry out these tests, except what I have assumed from the outset, Mrs Minister: You just want to save a few hundred thousand euros. You really do save here at the expense of the future, because we urgently need this data. A large part has already been carried out. The cost of money has already been carried out. The copies are there. We need to do this testing, please, just to have reliable data. They're talking about human misbehaviour. As you have now shown, you are actually putting the entire BIFIE under general suspicion, namely in a Si- tuation in which we know that this misbehavior is not at all in the BIFIE, but in the company Kapsch. We know that! By which staff this has happened, the criminal police is now in charge. But that was a criminal act of an employee. That's all clear! And therefore, there is no reason why you do not carry out these tests, except – and that is the central point for me as an education politician – the fact that this government and the previous governments have been persistently refusing to implement the results of the PISA testing into concrete reform measures since 2000. That's the jumping point. I refer to what other countries have done. The Poles, which were clearly behind us everywhere in 2000, the Poles, who were everywhere in the last third, did what we had to do in Austria for years: a basic school reform. And today, not only are the Poles clearly in front of Austria everywhere, but the Poles are everywhere in the first third and partly in the top group. It's up to you, Mrs. Minister. We need this data so that we do not fall back, so that we also know where we have to put the lever in the beginning, what students can't really do in mathematics, in natural sciences, in German. That we know this in concrete terms, we need to do that, and to do this, this PISA test needs to be carried out. It takes the field tests before that. I demand It is urgent that we should finally act and take note of this! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e12271	Mr Dr Franz came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e12293	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like High house! Minister! Say hello to God! First of all, I say: Thank you, Mrs. Minister, for stopping this. I do not say thank you for data security reasons, but I say: Thank you, that gives us a break-up and we can think about what that means at all, this whole PISA craze, this whole ranking craze, this standardisation craze and this craziness of equalizing in the education and university sector that has captured Europe. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ.]] Thank you. This contrasts the basic idea of education and university. This contrasts the basic idea of each individual willingness to learn, each individual teaching. We should take this recess, which I fully support, to take the opportunity to really think about what PISA brings us. Who benefits from PISA? Can you really cross PISA across Europe and compare every student and every student with any student or other student? Or has this become a purely self-evident purpose and it is measured with instruments set up by an association of interests and then all have to learn for PISA? The only thing we can compare is the PISA results. We don't know anything or very little about the schools. We learn little or nothing from it, we do not draw any consequences from the PISA results. We have a debate on education – we only had the big special session on education reform last week – but we do not benefit from it. We should now all sit together and take this break to think about the following questions: Is there not perhaps a failure in making tests to see what the students are learning, what the students are learning? Is there not a failure to make international comparisons? Does this always have to be the one-wide, the complete lawn mower method, the standardisation and the ranking flow that pervades everything? In medicine, for example, it is the case that we should act only more in accordance with standards and guidelines across Europe. That's how we push patients into Schemata. In the same way, the students are pressed into Schemata, the teachers are pressed into Schemata. We're talking about free individuals. We're talking about the citizen. We're talking about the power. And what are we doing? – We continuously assist citizens, students, patients, simply every bell and comparability grid from which we then extract any data that is then published large. I think this is a very bad and worrying development. I would like to thank the Minister once again. I think we should take this as an opportunity to think about whether there are failed methods, better methods, more individual methods, closer-to-citizen methods to capture education and make the sense or nonsense of educational institutions really comparable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e12344	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Strolz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e12365	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, one can of course talk about the sense and nonsense of educational testing. I am also in favour of having a watchful eye on the topic “Teaching to the test” and also “Learning to the test”. That is an important question. We want a holistic concept of learning. But one thing is clear: It would not have been a major educational debate in this country if we did not have this educational monitoring instrument. PISA has raised a lot of problems, which has led to good discussions. Mrs Minister, this is not plausible as you explain it here, and essential questions have not been answered, which has nothing to do with a question of data leak or not. That is why I am submitting the application in accordance with § 92 para. 3 GOG: The National Council should not take note of the request made by the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs. We need to discuss this again.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e12417	Ladies and gentlemen, the motion for a resolution is under way. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by Mr Dr. Strolz, ladies and gentlemen, not to take note of the reply to the question. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of not knowing a sign of approval. - Now we have to count through. [[Interlocutory calls at NEOS, Greens and FPÖ towards some of the hall during the enumeration of representatives of the government groups.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to the fact that during the voting process... – The accession is of course not prevented. [[Abg. Head: No, that can't be prevented! Access is possible at any time!]] [[Abg. Head: We already had them, the debate! Access is possible at any time!]] [[He-Rufe at SPÖ and ÖVP in the direction of some MEPs from Green and FPÖ entering the room.]] [[Call the ÖVP: They all call in! I can't!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for peace! We're counting once more. [[Abg. Krainer: The problem is, the ratio changes constantly!]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the excitement is for nothing. [[Abg. New builder: (on p. The colleague Fekter is sitting in the wrong place! That's not true!]] The request was rejected, at 45 to 72, we have counted. [[Oh-Rufe at the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: How much too much?]] [[15:46:55]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e12550	I will resume the negotiations on item 8 of the agenda. Mr Magnificent came to speak. It's a kilnauer. - Please. [[Unrest in the hall.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for peace! Mr Ofenauer is speaking and waiting for your attention!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e12583	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! It is now the criminal code or the reform group to adopt a new criminal code. The existing criminal code, the StGB 1974, will be published on 1 January 1974. January 2015 will be in force for 40 years. After four decades, not only has society changed, but also the technical possibilities have developed further, which is why it is necessary to revise this law. These changes have to be taken into account, and the priorities in a criminal code must be different in 2015 from those in force at the time of the entry into force of the current StGB in 1975. Ladies and gentlemen, criminal law is not a matter of well-being, because with criminal law we state which behavior is to be done with punishment and which is not. Criminal law is an essential part of our legal order, as it expresses the values of a society. Therefore, amendments to the Criminal Code always have special relevance. ==References== A reform group on the Criminal Code was set up in the Ministry of Justice in February 2013. Thankfully, Mr Brandstetter, from the very beginning, put the focus on a comprehensive and rapid revision of the Criminal Code. Originally, the reform group should be invited to submit a quarterly report on its work. In my opinion, however, work on the revision of the criminal code is more important than writing reports. Moreover, the reports that have been requested are no longer necessary because the reform group will have completed its work in the summer. Therefore, a corresponding amendment was also submitted to the Federal Minister for Justice to submit the final report of the reform group to the National Council by the end of October 2014. [[Unrest in the hall.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of the Criminal Code
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e12625	Excuse me, colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very unpleasant for the speaker because it is really very loud in the room. I ask you to be a little calmer! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e12641	It is a great legal task to amend a criminal code, and we will therefore proceed with due consideration. The proportionality of penalties or cyber-strength are only two examples which require a change. The reform group will show us opportunities and provide the basis for the revision of the Criminal Code. However, the weighting of the measures is a political task, and here we are called on to reach a consensus with thought and after a broad discussion in Parliament. I hope that we will achieve this consensus, and I am sure that we will also make a joint decision. That would be a sign of good cooperation.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e12674	Mr Jarolim has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e12695	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. On the occasion, I would like to thank the Federal Minister once again for his warm speech on the last item on the agenda, because this has also served to clarify it. It is very important that we also complete the relevant interpretation spaces when we adopt them. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, this is a working group which is currently active and which, by October, lays down the provisions of substantive criminal law in need of change and, in part, of procedural criminal law. In fact, there are a number of provisions that are currently being strongly debated. It is also true that there are always discrepancies in the interpretation of provisions mainly by the prosecutor. In recent times, for example, we have seen a very strong increase in charges of the crime of peace, which was certainly not intentional in the form of how the prosecution partly interprets this offence. There is also a need for discussion in the tow industry, and the approval of a criminal act as well as the entire organisational offences – § 278a and the following – is also to be searched accordingly. All in all, of course, the question arises whether the proportionality between violent and property offences is best given. – You can take advantage of it already: No, that is certainly not the case and therefore to clarify. Mr Federal Minister, my request would be that all social and legal aspects and representatives should be represented accordingly in this working group. There is, I think, some improvement. The more this working group can take into account aspects – and therefore it is also important that the representatives of the various areas are present there – the better the result is, the more we can start with it, the less discussion there is here in the National Council. I can still give you this request: to see that there is a correspondingly balanced representation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e12738	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Schrangl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e12759	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! ==References== January 2015 celebrates the great criminal law reform of 1975 with complete recodification, decided under the then Minister of Justice Broda, its 40. birthday. In the 120 years before, there were only smaller modifications over and over again, but in the end every time, a new declaration of the criminal law of 1852. This 120-year-old Dahinvegete and incidental amendments to the Criminal Code we want to save on Broda’s criminal law reform and therefore use the year of 40-year-old to achieve extensive recodification. Although in recent decades the StGB has undoubtedly experienced a number of partially deeper reforms and changes, one thing remained the same to this day: the often criticised disproportionateness between punishments in property crimes on the one hand and offences against body and life on the other. ==References== In February 2013, a reform group on the Criminal Code, consisting of university professors and representatives of lawyers, judges and prosecutors, was set up in the Ministry of Justice in order to meet the needs of the Criminal Code. As a time frame, twelve months were estimated at the time when a broad political discussion process should be initiated. The end of this twelve-month period was therefore an opportunity for the liberals to submit a motion for a resolution calling on the Federal Government to submit quarterly progress reports to Parliament and, in the interests of maximum transparency, we all want to do so. – to start as broad a discourse as possible to the StGB-Novelle in order to save the StGB 1975 a 120-year-old existence and to adapt the penal catalogue to the common sense and the criminal sense of a modern society in which we live today. It is therefore all the more gratifying that the government parties also accepted this free move and asked the Federal Minister for Justice to submit the final report to the National Council by the end of 2014. Ladies and gentlemen, laws live to be borne by the greatest possible acceptance. Therefore, let us not do a backroom policy, but draw the conclusions of this reform group behind the curtain, so that not only we in Parliament can exchange views on it, but we can discuss it widely and form an opinion. If this opinion is then in line with the opinion expressed in this House, we have all done good work together. That is why I ask you to give your consent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e12799	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e12821	Ladies and gentlemen! The revision of the 1975 Criminal Code could actually become a political milestone, just as the Ministry of Justice did. The question, however, is what is at the end of the discussion process, because there have been great ideas many times, but the question is whether they can also be implemented. To this end, we are pleased that the results of the working group will be presented in autumn. I also like it because I find it exciting what the experts recommend and what should be implemented because there are sometimes discrepancies there. However, if it is the ambitious goal to have this novelle finished by the anniversary year, I would point out, Minister, that the time is extremely short, especially since, as often mentioned, one of your predecessors, Justice Minister Broda, has repeatedly created the piece of art that the difficult and hot debated judicial issues such as criminal law in this House have been decided unanimously. I suppose it is also your goal to decide a novel of the Criminal Code with all its different questions on a broad consensus basis. For this, the time will be relatively short. I think it is important for the report to be presented. But I think this consensus and this broad discussion are even more important than ambitious annual targets, but this should not be a plea for not setting ambitious time targets. However, I warn against saving perhaps important debates here in Parliament or in civil society just to spend the novelle in time for the round anniversary. Yes, present the report in autumn, we will discuss it in detail, and then we will see if we really bring together a great reform work – it would be desirable anyway! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e12860	Mr Brandstetter spoke on a point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e12881	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The criminal code has come into the years. It is from the time of Christian Broda, as we have heard. The same applies to the BMJ ministerial office. This is also from this time and unchanged. On the occasion I can say: This is certainly not the case for cost reasons. Meanwhile, this office equipment is almost historical. [[Rejoicing with representatives of ÖVP and FPÖ.]] However, something has to be changed in the criminal code. The merit of having recognized this and having used a truly high-ranking group of experts to deal with these issues of the StGB reform comes to my predecessor, colleague Karl. She did this in the previous year and also did it on 6 June. A large survey was held on May 1, 2013. [[President Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] I can assure you that we will, at least by the end of October, present the results of this Commission, this group of experts to Parliament, and then start the broad discussion. Of course, we all hope that we will manage to bring this reform into force in the course of 2015, so that the anniversary year can also be used. The expert group itself has reserved itself from the outset without being allowed to work on it peacefully from the outside. I respect that too. That is why I cannot really say anything on the content of the interim results or on the previous discussions in this group. I don't want to. But I can assure you that by the end of October you will have the final report of this group of experts, and then we will be detailed and broad and, of course, with this group of experts. aim to find the greatest possible consensus on a new regulation, discuss it. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e12933	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. No final word is desired on the part of the reporting. We shall therefore vote on the resolution on the report of the Federal Minister for Justice on the progress made by the Reform Group on the Criminal Code, annexed to the Committee's report 93 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this to be a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 17.) [[16:01:30]] 9. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (32d._Other Organiser Convention on Witness Protection Cooperation (94 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e12979	We're now on the 9th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first is Mr Obernoster. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e13006	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Federal Ministers on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! This is the Convention on Cooperation in the field of Witness Protection. We know that this is necessary to provide even greater security for endangered witnesses. Nine states have signed this Convention. It is now ensured that our security officers may carry their military force abroad and, if necessary, that they can also use it there. This will ensure much more protection for the witnesses, because, as we know, particularly endangered witnesses do not always stay in Austria, but are also partly taken abroad in order to ensure optimal protection for them. These additions have been necessary. This has nothing to do with costs, the costs remain the same. This will improve the protection of witnesses and increase mutual confidence in cooperation in the area of security within the EU. The conclusion of this agreement, I believe, has been a necessary, important measure, which is now in the process of decision-making in order to carry out cooperation across borders in the field of security even more intensively in the future. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e13037	I call Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e13058	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the government! High house! I even want to say it's going to be cheaper. In particular, it will be more efficient and faster, because we have been in this process so far. A large number of authorities have had to engage and apply for special approval – which, of course, causes costs, that is not a question, but above all, it is lengthy. It's a lengthy process, you have to say, if you've been looking at it. I think it is very necessary, because of the development, that we also give European joint answers here. It is of great importance for the criminal enforcement authorities as well as for the security authorities that we take account of international developments in this area. I very much promise that this measure will be very, very much, but it will also be a matter of protecting people, of persons, of protecting witnesses. I therefore believe that this is a long-term overdue step in the necessary direction, which will ensure faster, more efficient and – I go so far and say – cheaper procedures for their work in order to also express the necessary answers to international crime – this can be done in a calm manner. One could also point to an administrative reformatory approach here – and this should not be hidden – because it makes a difference whether we have to determine it by law across Europe for everyone or by means of numerous individual permits, as it was in history. That is to say, there are several positive approaches here, and I believe that this is the right way for Europe, but above all – and I am deeply convinced of this – the right way also for Austria and, above all, for the people who, if they make themselves available to the courts, reach the necessary protection quickly and reliably. In this sense, I invite you to give your consent to this current law.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e13103	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e13125	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We too will agree to this agreement, as it is a very reasonable approach. It regulates the cooperation of the Contracting Parties between Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Romania, the Slovak Republic and Slovenia in the field of witness protection. In other words, it creates the directives and the legal bases across Europe in order to be able to work better in the protection of witnesses. This will be simplified with those countries. Unfortunately, not all of Europe – which would of course be beneficial – is in place, but that can still happen. The Convention promises the institutions of the security authorities of the Contracting Parties to intensify police cooperation the right to intervene in the respective territories to have the right to carry out equipment – arms and so on. We know the whole of the police aftertaste, which already exists in the field of Germany, Switzerland, where we have cooperation agreements, because of which police officers can work in the other territory and can put in place the first measures there. This is a great relief for the police, and the present Convention now also regulates this for the officials in the field of witness protection, which is a reasonable thing that we can only support. More security for these witnesses and also for the political community. say officials who then have to guard them – all in all a good thing. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e13163	Mr Plessl has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e13184	Thank you, Mr President. Estimated Minister of the Interior! Minister of Justice! Ladies and gentlemen in the gallery and in front of the TV screens! Ladies and gentlemen! The Convention on Witness Protection, which is currently under parliamentary treatment, was unanimously recommended for adoption in the last Committee on the Interior. I'm glad as a police officer, of course. The aim of this Convention is to enable enhanced cooperation in the field of witness protection and to improve the existing situation. Since joining the European Union in 1995, Austria has come to the centre of the European Union through enlargement processes in 2004, 2007 and 2013. In this role Austria is of course also looking for contact with its eastern neighbours. We have conversations, deepen contacts and want to work together. Our economy needs export, because stability and security are very important to us Austrians. Therefore, we are not seeking the separation, but the binding conversation with our neighbors. The present agreement – which has already been said – takes part in today’s decision-making process – is Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, Poland, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, the Czech Republic and Hungary, and it is based on the initiative of the ‘Forum Salzburg’, in which especially Eastern European countries participate. It is interesting – and I would like to point out – that Estonia has now also joined this agreement. Ladies and gentlemen! This agreement is very important for the field of witness protection. On the one hand, a flexibilization of the protective measures, a movement of arms and access to the territory of the other contracting parties is regulated, and on the other hand, there is a central contact point in the Federal Ministry of the Interior, which has already been addressed by my colleague Pendl. Finally, one thing – because organised and severe crime does not concern exclusively the participating states – is: There is also the possibility for all other Member States to participate in this Convention. And it is also very important to oppose the organised crime in different forms and in different intensity, also in Austria. Finally, I would like to thank everyone involved for having achieved this agreement. It is also a demonstration project, and Europol is presented as the best practice, so I ask colleagues for their approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e13231	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. No final word is desired on the part of the reporting. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Internal Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty, which is contrary to Article 50, in 32 of the Supplements. 1 point 1 B-VG to be authorised. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this. – This is unanimously accepted. [[16:11:39]] 10. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (26 e.g._Other Organiser Arms Trade Treaty (102 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e13276	We're on our way to the 10th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e13303	Madam President. My Appreciations Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing today the arms trade agreement, the first one that exists globally and which has been concluded worldwide. With today's decision, we are taking a significant step towards the control of illegal arms trafficking, and we also call for a sense of responsibility in the arms trade. The Treaty is not quite perfect, but Austria and the European Union would have wanted stronger regulations in some areas, but this is a first important and important step in solving the serious humanitarian problems caused by the unregulated international trade in weapons. It is precisely the dramatic situation in the various crisis spots in our world that highlights the importance of resisting the problems posed by the responsible trade in arms. Now it is about the fact that this important treaty will enter into force as soon as possible under international law, and this requires ratification by at least 50 states. The UN General Assembly in New York has already adopted the first global arms trade agreement last year. 154 States voted in favour of this arms trade agreement. Only Syria, North Korea and Iran voted against, and 23 countries, including China and Russia, were present. According to the Treaty, for example, it should be examined whether serious human rights violations can be committed in cross-border arms operations with the systems supplied. It is also intended to prevent weapons from coming into the hands of terrorists and organized crime. Prohibitions are arms exports if genocide, crimes against humanity or other war crimes can be committed. Heavy weapons systems such as tanks, combat helicopters, field hoods and warships are included, but also – with restrictions here – light weapons such as stormguns, grenade-throwers and tankers. The aim of this Treaty is to create the highest possible common international standards for the regulation or improvement of international trade in conventional weapons, to prevent and eliminate illicit trade in conventional weapons and to prevent their redirecting. This is to be done for the purpose that world peace prevails, human suffering is eased and cooperation, transparency and confidence between the signatory Member States. It is a good step in the right direction. Let us therefore agree to the Treaty.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e13349	Mrs Mag. Korun is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e13370	Madam President. Dear members of the Federal Government on the government bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear guests at the gallery! The fact that an international arms trade agreement could at all be achieved was and are involved in thousands of people. I would like to thank these thousands of people in many of the countries of our world who have been working for years and decades, of course, even the United Nations, very much for the fact that this conclusion of the contract was finally possible. I would also like to thank Amnesty International very much for the many – smaller and larger – civil society organisations, but last but not least also our Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the diplomatic corps. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Those colleagues who were there during the last legislative period will remember that we were on 29 July. March 2012 unanimously adopted a green request aimed at our Foreign Ministry and our diplomatic corps working internationally, bilaterally, but also within the framework of the UN for the strictest arms trading standards possible, because we all know how very illegal arms trade, how much arms trade overall, I would say that democratic structures are undermined, human rights violations, wars, war disputes, murder and deportation. I am pleased that we are able to conclude this agreement today, and, as I agree with Mr Eßl, knowing that it is not a perfect treaty, I still think it is necessary and important to stress that it is a very, very important step, because we have not had an international treaty that regulates and restricts arms trafficking at international level until today or a year ago, when this Arms Trade Treat was signed by the UN. That is why this Treaty is a very, very important basis, even if, according to our proposals, it should have been more stringent in our view. Despite all efforts, it has unfortunately not been possible to extend the Treaty to include ammunition and other parts of weapons, so that the provisions of the Trade Treaty arm are also applied to these arms and weapons. Nevertheless, it is a very, very important sign that we as the Republic are ratifying relatively quickly. This should also have a model effect. I would also like to thank the Federal Government for the relatively fast proposal, so that ratification is already possible. And now we should work at international level to ensure that the missing ratifications follow as quickly as possible so that the international arms trade agreement actually enters into force as soon as possible. Thank you all once again! There is heart blood from many, many thousands of people. And I hope that this Treaty will help to improve the international human rights situation. Thank you all!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e13418	Mrs Mag. Muttons now speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e13440	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Have Last Week They certainly read all the terrible reports about Bentiu. In Bentiu – this is the small, oily South Sudanese capital – rebels killed more than 200 children, women and men. 400 people were injured in attacks. People have retreated into mosques, they have hidden in the hospital, in an abandoned UN facility. There they sought protection, but they were shot because they did not support the rebels because they were part of another ethnicity – and they were shot with small conventional handguns. Bentiu's not an isolated case, we've heard it today. Look for Syria, look at Nigeria – or look at Ukraine at the moment! Amnesty International assumes that at least half a million people are killed each year in armed conflicts. Conventional weapons are also weapons of mass destruction, ladies and gentlemen! If you believe Amnesty International, there are more international laws that regulate trade with bananas than international rules for arms trafficking. That is why this arms trade agreement is particularly important, and Austria has always been very strong and committed to it. Let me briefly come to the non-conventional weapons of mass destruction from the conventionals! Austria is also very active at international level and insists on disarmament and the abolition of nuclear weapons. I therefore expressly welcome the fact that an international conference on the humanitarian consequences of nuclear weapons will be held here in Vienna in December. Austria is a driving force in this discussion with Norway and Mexico, and this shows that we can also set accents on important international issues. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Parliament should therefore cooperate well so that we can hold a successful conference in autumn. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e13473	The next speaker was Mr Wenninger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e13494	Madam President. High house! In the future, the international arms trade agreement is intended to apply minimum standards worldwide, which require the participating states of this Agreement to implement national controls very rigorously. Before exporting, it is necessary to verify whether weapons can fall into the hands of terrorists, criminal organizations et cetera. This is particularly important because arms trafficking in the business world is not only one of the most dangerous and corrupt areas of activity, but also because, above all, terrorist groups, regimes, warlords are increasingly equipped with illegal arms trafficking and more and more weapons are also entering the civilian population. The SIPRI, Stockholm International Peace Research Institute, estimates that approximately $45 to 50 billion are spent annually on arms trafficking. These are the groups that are aware of all of us, but unfortunately they are more and more concerned with the private trade in weapons, about bizarre weapons fanatics. In private households, especially in the United States, about 30,000 people are killed each year by use of firearms. In countries such as Brazil, South Africa or the USA, shooting injuries are now among the most common causes of death in young men. It is therefore of great importance that Austria, together with international organisations, has decided on this arms trade agreement. Meanwhile, 118 states have agreed to ratify this Treaty, and Austria is now entering it. Finally, I would like to address the Committee and, above all, call on NEOS to give their agreement here in Parliament. It has so far been common practice and practice in Parliament that such important international treaties are unanimously adopted and carried by all political groups. It was therefore a bit strange that NEOS could not reach an agreement in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I'm really appealing to you: Move the pilots a bit, look beyond the border of the plate, and agree to this contract!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e13537	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty in question in 26 of the Supplements in accordance with Article 50. 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[16:25:40]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (28 d.a._Other Organiser Amendment of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court on the Crime of Aggression (103 d.a.) 12. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (27 d.a._Other Organiser Amendment to Article 8 of the Statute of the International Criminal Court (104 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e13586	We now come to points 11 and 12 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. I call Mr Karlsböck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e13613	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen in the house and at home in front of the televisions! Two topics are summarized in a conglomerate. One is to amend the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court in relation to the crime of aggression. That is to say, it should be simply and simply a change in this conflict of law. We believe that this is not yet fully matured and we also see this as a little critical, especially as the risk of political instrumentalization in one or another The direction cannot be completely excluded. Let us take just one recent example: Kosovo. There a part of the population wants to achieve independence. The preparations for this would already be regarded as a wary, criminal act in accordance with the new statutes. That would cement the status quo worldwide. In events such as they are just a little further east, in Crimea and the like, it is similar. At the moment, it would be opportune to agree to this, but in the long run, it always remains a matter of interpretation, which is to be understood by an attack which is directed against sovereignty and territorial integrity. We believe that the peoples' right of self-determination is diametrically opposed to this point. There should be a greater discussion, including here in the House, not just a driving over and a ratification of something coming from outside. The second point is trade in weapons. We have just heard at the previous item on the agenda that this is a delicate issue, it is about power, influence and big money. Of course, everyone strives to expand great spheres of influence, but the particularly treacherous and loathsome crimes are still being committed today by the use of poison gas and poisoned weapons. We must, of course, give signs of this, and that is why we will agree to this amendment to the Statute. The consequences of such attacks, especially for the civilian population and innocent children, are inestimable. We can also see this from the example of Syria. The attacks, if they survive at all, are marked by a lifetime of health damage. The civil war in Syria has confirmed this in an impressive way, as has been said. The amendment of Article 8 now closes a gap in that the use of certain weapons, such as poison gas or firearms, which easily expand in the human body, is considered war crimes. Hunters know this, this ammunition is even prescribed in the use of the hunter; there is disastrous damage in the organism that causes death in 99 percent of the cases. This is outlawed internationally, and it will be strengthened once again. In international armed conflicts, this has already been a war crime, but not when it occurred in non-international armed conflicts, i.e. in civil wars. From a liberal point of view, there is nothing against closing this gap, and that is why we will also agree to these two requests.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e13662	Mr Mag. Smoking now comes to the fore. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e13683	Madam President. Foreign Minister! Of course, politics is not only the current budget speech, but it is also about looking beyond the edge of the plate and also putting external policy activities in the foreground accordingly. I believe that, especially in this area, as far as the International Criminal Court is concerned, there are really two milestones that we are presenting here today and, hopefully, we are going to decide that way. One point concerns the situation of aggression, which is to be reintroduced. At the International Criminal Court there has not yet been this crime, but in the case of previous major tribunals – I remember, above all, the Nuremberg processes after the Second World War, but also the processes in Tokyo after the World War II – there has been such a similar crime. We are now introducing the crime of aggression in addition to three already existing crimes, namely crimes against humanity, genocide and war crimes, and I think it is really a milestone that this is now to be introduced. Of course, it was difficult to define the term ‘aggression’, which was laborious negotiations. Of course, one could have defined the term on one side or the other even more precisely, but we are glad that we have this term that this term is now a crime, a crime. But there is also a legal gap, as my previous speaker has already stressed. It is a question of the fact that, in particular, the use of secret weapons – such as poison gas, such as Dum-Dum-Gössen, which can cause brutal, devastating injuries – can be declared punishable not only in international conflicts, but also in national conflicts. From our point of view, both of these changes are to be recognized, because when it comes to dealing with the most serious crimes of justice, it must affect the international community as a whole. We will support and acknowledge both points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e13725	Next speaker: Mrs Bayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e13747	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The so-called Kampala amendments to the Rome Statutes governing the ICC, in fact, make an important gap. As soon as 30 states have ratified that the crime of aggression is a crime to be suspected under the umbrella of the ICC, the ICC, the International Criminal Court, will stand on four very stable legs, namely aggression in addition to genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity. This means that in the future, for example, leaders and leaders – but there are rather fewer ones – can be put before the ICC of attack acts that are clearly against the UN Charter and their crimes can be prosecuted accordingly. I think this is very important and very important progress. The second additional protocol, also one of the Kampala amendments, closes a very important gap in international war law. So far, the use of poison and also biological weapons has been prohibited under the 1925 Geneva Protocols, if I am not deceived, and the Hague Convention on Land Wars has already prohibited 1899 from using weapons that cause disproportionately high damage to people, causing serious injuries to people. However, according to the time – 1899 and 1925 – all these conventions have only covered international armed conflicts. Today, unfortunately, the majority of conflicts – “sufferer” is not appreciation; international conflicts are no better than national – national conflicts, that is civil wars, and it is good that these two bans, namely the use of poison and the use of dum-dumb-shots and other very damaging weapons, can be extended to internal conflicts in the future. I think that's important. This is an important gap in international humanitarian law. I think if you think about where the ICC might go next and take next steps at the political level, then It is a matter of getting closer to a campaign and of considering the extent to which one might want to engage in it from Austria, namely to make Ecocide, i.e. Ecocide, a criminal offence against the environment and to define it as the fifth crime in the ICC Statute. I think it's worth thinking about it. There are some very promising approaches and considerations, and perhaps we as the Austrian Parliament, as part of Austrian foreign policy, can get into this discussion. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e13786	Mr Mag. Steinhauser is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e13807	Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the strengthening of the International Criminal Court is concerned, I can join my predecessor from the SPÖ and my predecessor from the ÖVP, everything has been said. However, I would like to take this opportunity to point out that there is already a partly unsatisfactory situation in the International Criminal Court in the persecution of war criminals. Indeed, the International Criminal Court is only as powerful as the country to which a victim is to be persecuted belongs. The International Criminal Court has no own investigators. That is, if a country refuses to cooperate, it is not possible, for example, to understand the chain of commands, to agree, to see at which level orders were given and criminality takes effect. The entire collection of evidence and evidence is usually the case with those countries that are concerned, and these countries have to cooperate. It's translated: As a rule, the International Criminal Court is successful when there is a change of regime, because, due to the regime change, there is an interest of the new government – in the best case of a democratic government – to cooperate. However, as long as a regime is firmly in the saddle, the International Criminal Court has very few chances of successful investigations, especially since witnesses are disabled, especially since witnesses are prevented from appearing and declaring on the ground. The biggest problem is that these people are sometimes protected, and that is the second point: The International Criminal Court may conduct proceedings only if the accused is physically present. This is not the case again and again, because the person concerned is either still covered by his country of origin or is hidden in a safe country of refuge – and that must only be one – or is officially staying there and this country covers the person concerned. I therefore believe, Mr Foreign Minister, that, regardless of the correct strengthenings of the International Criminal Court we are doing today, we need to think again and again about strengthening the International Criminal Court. There must be no safe havens for international war criminals and human rights criminals, and it must not be possible for the International Criminal Court to be extradited in its investigations on the success and destruction of the cooperation of the Member States. I know the answers are difficult, that's clear. But if we want to pursue international crimes successfully – and we hope so – then We will also need to develop international criminal jurisdiction. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e13853	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e13874	Madam President. Mr. Minister! In principle, I think that what Mr Steinhauser said is in any case acceptable. It is essentially a matter of strengthening the International Criminal Court as a whole, and just what we are doing now, namely deciding on the crime of aggression, is a very important milestone. Because Mr Karlsböck said earlier that he would have wanted a longer discussion here in the house: This discussion has been in place for ages. The crime of aggression was in the Roman Statute from the very beginning, but it was not formulated, and that is the great problem. In other words, we had one out of four which was not applicable, namely the one that could most easily be applied in the final effect. The biggest problem, which we have already heard, is the chain of evidence which is much more difficult to understand in crimes against humanity, genocide and war crimes than in the crime of aggression. It is precisely about the fact that the Heads of State are giving orders to take action against other countries, as the case may be. It is therefore explicitly important that we decide this after so long, in which this crime was practically not applicable, because it was not clarified, and I am very glad that a meaningful compromise was found at the Kampala Conference and, fortunately, the whole thing is now also being debated here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e13907	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. No final word is desired on the part of the reporting. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 11: Proposal from the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Amendment of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court concerning the crime of aggression to grant approval in 28 of the supplements referred to in Article 50(1) B-VG. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 12: Proposal from the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Amendment to Article 8 of the Statute of the International Criminal Court to grant approval in 27 of the supplements referred to in Article 50(1) B-VG. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[16:41:06]] 13. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (5D.B._Other Organiser Internal Agreement between the representatives of the governments of the Member States of the European Union, meeting within the Council, on the financing of the European Union assistance provided for by the Multiannual Financial Framework for the period 2014 to 2020 under the ACP-EU Partnership Agreement and on the provision of financial assistance to the overseas countries and territories to which the Fourth part of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union applies (107 p.a.) 14. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (71 e.g._Other Organiser Agreement amending for the second time the Partnership Agreement between the members of the African, Caribbean and Pacific Group of States, of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part, signed in Cotonou on 23 March. It was first amended in Luxembourg on 25 June 2000 and amended for the first time on 25 June 2000. of June 2005, including the final act including those attached declarations (108 d.a.) 15. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (29 d.a._Other Organiser Framework Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of the Philippines, of the other part (109d.b.) 16. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (13d._Other Organiser Agreements between the Republic of Austria and the International Organisation for Migration on the legal status of the organization in Austria and the seat of its offices in Vienna (105 d.b.) 17. Point Report by the Foreign Policy Committee on the Government Template (15D.B._Other Organiser Agreements between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Cyprus on the use of airports and other facilities in the Republic of Cyprus in the case of evacuations from third countries (106 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e14008	We now come to points 13 to 17 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. Reporting is not wanted, so we are going into the debate at once. First of all, Mr Hübner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e14035	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The debate on these points could continue seamlessly where we ended the debate on the International Criminal Court. There is also a lot of good will, a lot of paper and huge amounts of changes, novels, additions, clarifications, and even there is very little effectiveness. At the International Court of Justice, which was mentioned far too little in the previous debate, we have mentioned the problem of the small ones being hanged there and the big ones decide who will be hanged, since all the essential states have not participated in it, either have not ratified at all or do not deliver their citizens, and the International Court of Justice is therefore essentially concerned with delinquents from Liberia, Serbia, Kosovo, the Congo and so on, while the institutions of large states are looking unlit and perhaps still giving good advice. This is similar to the ACP Agreement and so on – huge. I have put one of these two agreements to the agenda items 13 and 14 as follows: That's so thick! [[The speaker shows the printed pages.]] There's nothing in there except beautiful words! Thousands and thousands of hours must have been spent in various commissions to make these definitions and beautiful things. But what has come out of ACP policy over the last 20 years is more than modest, because precisely these countries, which are signatar states and have been supported with some considerable resources, have had the worst development history worldwide. These regions, namely sub-Saharan Africa, the Caribbean and some Pacific countries, have the worst development. Interesting, of course, can be coincidence, and one can say that they would have developed even worse if there had been no such means, but it should give you thought and not cause you to make beautiful words, redefined and bring in climate change and all kinds of things, but you should question the system and set it up fundamentally. It's not going to be done. It's about a lot of money. The ACP budget alone amounts to approximately 35 billion by 2020, and Austria itself commits 750 million to this fund, the 11. EDF, to pay. That's not a little money. Therefore, we should get a bit of “flesh ” and not just empty culprits. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let me add a second topic, the recognition of international diplomatic status to the Migration Agency in Vienna. This one has had an office in Vienna since 1954, so I think, for 30, 40, 50 years, for decades anyway. And now at once, at a time of deprivileging, sparingness, equality, their diplomatic status is granted. We have discussed several times here, which means: Exemption from income tax, exemption from social security, exemption from the NOVA and VAT for cars. It's no longer contemporary! [[Interference of Federal Minister Kurz.]] The Minister looks like this. Do you think that's what you're doing? – These are people who work at an international organisation, and they are to be freed from all legal regulations? In a state like Austria, where the rule of law really works? This might make sense in the Congo, but there are no such organizations there. [[Federal Minister Kurz: We benefit economically!]] We benefit, you can always say that. Then we pick up the oligarchs according to the model of the Canton of Zug and give them 3 percent flat rate tax, then we benefit much more than from this organization. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We do not do that because we are based on tax justice and equality of people. But this will be immediately masked when it comes to these international privilege stages. Then there is no equality before the law, no more tax, but everything is immediately granted. [[Interference of Federal Minister Kurz.]] The minimum we can do and what I call for is that if the Member States that are part of the European Union do not apply the privileges, we will only be able to do so. The fact that we grant these privileges to a German, a French, a Dutchman, a Sweden is completely incomprehensible. The European Union, which sees itself as an economic area making a banking union and different... [[New interim remark by Federal Minister Kurz.]] – I am not talking about the UN, but about the fact that, at least once, the EU, which understands itself as an overstated entity, fails to do away with these privileges. It is scandalous that we make everything equal and regulate everything the same, that these privileges, however, be expanded and strengthened wherever they go. That should finally be stopped. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We will vote against it, but I fear that many Members of this House would rather listen or say: We benefit from this, we benefit from it like the Canton of Zug, and otherwise we don't want to hear about it! because it's the easier way. But we should not go this way. That's why I'm asking everyone to consider their yes, their rise here a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e14126	Mr Huainigg has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e14147	Madam President. Minister! High house! Austria has a global responsibility, which we also assume, for example, in the EU Development Fund. ==References== EU Development Fund has paid €500 million to Austria, now, to the 11. Fund, €700 million. This Fund, for example, supports EU assistance under the ACP Partnership Convention. This is about combating poverty in 79 Member States, in Africa, in the Caribbean and in the Pacific. These are important initiatives, which also support Austria and to which it contributes. Since this is my first speech as an EZA speaker, I would also like to raise an important concern, including development cooperation, that all development cooperation programmes take into account accessibility, equal participation and inclusion of people with disabilities, not only in specific programmes, but really as a cross-cutting matter, as an indicator. Austria already has a good expertise in this field. During the last legislative period, we adopted a resolution on the implementation of the UN Convention in development policy. The ADA, the Austrian Development Agency, has established its own working group with disability organisations and has also published a catalogue on human rights and accessibility in development policy. I believe that we should also bring this expertise into the Post-2015 Agenda, the follow-up programme of the Millennium Goals, and ensure that it becomes a focus in the post-2015 as a concern of Austria. I would like to thank Foreign Minister Sebastian Kurzbe thank you, who is very committed in this area and who has now also launched a programme of awareness-raising, “Our voices for development”. I believe that it is very important for the population to be more aware of how important it is that Austria also contributes to poverty reduction in poor countries. In conclusion: Development policy is part of human dignity. That is why I am also in favour of the inviolable human dignity being enshrined in the Austrian Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e14195	The next item is the speech by Mr Heinzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e14217	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Since 1975, the European Union has had intensive relations with the countries of the so-called ACP Group. The total of 79 member countries of the International Confederation are, as is known, in Africa, the Caribbean and the Pacific and are working closely with the European Union, particularly at the economic level, within the framework of their Community. In addition to the political relations between the ACP States, the main objectives of the ACP countries are the sustainable development of the Member States, their integration into the world economy and the establishment of a world order, from which all, i.e. also developing and emerging countries, benefit. Historically and economically, many of these countries have strong relations with Europe. The European Union has taken account of this historical responsibility, as I have already said, through cooperation under the so-called Lomé Convention since 1975. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Under this agreement, not only funds for classical development aid have been provided, but a system of customs relief has also helped countries to trade their goods in the EU area. In addition, measures have been taken to keep export prices stable and thus revenue for countries. The Lomé Agreement expired in 2000. In order to create a new legal framework for relations, the Cotonou Agreement was signed in 2000. This agreement covers the intergovernmental relationship of the contracting parties in the areas of development aid, trade, investment and – that is important – human rights and expires in 2020. The stated objective is also to implement the changed objectives of the European Union on development cooperation. Previously, the recipient countries were more alms recipients than equal partners. The aim is to provide targeted support for sustainable, independent development. Democracy and human rights – and this is particularly important – now play an important role. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, it must not be forgotten that the agreement with the ACP States plays an important foreign policy role for the European Union, at least two thirds of all developing countries. The Partnership Agreement between the EU and the ACP States is a modern, comprehensive and contractual instrument of North-South cooperation in the mutual interest. Especially important, ladies and gentlemen, High House: Austria will continue to contribute to poverty reduction in the poorest countries of Africa, the Caribbean and the Pacific under the Development Fund in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e14274	Next speaker: Mrs Windbüchler-Sushill. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e14295	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Development policy is a major challenge. It is about governments, parliaments together, at the same time as partner countries, describing development policies with partner organisations not only but also actually implementing them – not top-down, but actually at the same time. And that makes up development policy. In fact, development policy is the policy area that actually saves people very quickly with little financial means. Hardly any other policy area is as sustainable, as socially, as fair as development policy. That is why it is extremely important that Austria actually strengthens development policy, strengthens it in a sustainable way, and, above all, equips it with financial resources. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Pock.]] If one has really listened to my previous speakers, it is believed that we are living in a wonderful pink cloud, with all the financial resources for development cooperation. But this is not the case, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. The budget presented today clearly shows that it looks different and clearly shows that the budget for development cooperation is actually being reduced. Nowhere else is the discrepancy between the social commitment to development cooperation and the funds spent for it as great as in Austria. 0.28% of gross national income is spent on all development cooperation. We are at the end of the European comparison. 0.7 percent were always or should always be the stated goal for development cooperation, and that has been the case for years. The spats had already swirled it a long time ago from the roofs: Development cooperation will not take place in 2015! In 2014 there are still 82 million, 2015 it will be reduced to € 65 million. The funds for direct support will be reduced. This is not what you, Mr Foreign Minister, and the Federal Government have proposed to do in the next few years, quite the opposite. Empathetic are not only our reaction, but also the development organisations. “ saveing once again with the poorest of the poor is an absolute declaration of bankruptcy by the government,” says AG Global Responsibility. The coordinating body of the Episcopal Conference is “shattered. ” The Linz Bishop and Chairman of the Coordination Office of the Bishops' Conference Ludwig Schwarz criticises the fact that there is now a “historical low” since only € 52.9 million will actually be left for concrete help, for direct projects. Austria “does not even try to fulfill its international commitment”, says World Vision Austria. “The radical cuts damage Austria’s international reputation,” says Licht für die Welt. Inclusive development cooperation must be a priority, but it also needs funds. And light for the world is the guarantee that including education actually takes place, but from the side of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it seems to be only an empty culprit. That is why I am bringing forward the motion for a resolution. Mr Tanja Windbüchler-Souschill, Members In terms of development cooperation as a general government responsibility, implement government programmes. The National Council wants to decide that those points set out in the Government Convention and those points which have already been decided here in the House of ÖVP and SPÖ for development cooperation are actually implemented. This is about the development and legal anchoring of a step-by-step plan to increase EZA funds up to the 0.7 percent target and its actual implementation. It is a question of an overall strategy. It's about coherence. The issue is that sufficient funds are available for the foreign disaster fund. To date, we still have €5 million – the great demand of all organisations and, in fact, of Parliament to increase the foreign disaster fund to €20 million, so that people affected by typhoones receive rapid and unbureaucratic assistance. Take back the cuts in the EZA area as soon as possible, implement the Government Convention and say yes to your own request!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e14381	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Windbüchler-Sushill has been presented in his key points. Therefore, according to § 53 para. Distribution of 4 GMOs on the basis of their size. He's on trial. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e14467	Next speaker: Mrs Dr Lintl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e14488	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! We are today adopting an agreement between the Republic of Austria and the International Organisation for Migration. The agreement officially gives the IOM a legal status with privileges and immunities, which other international organisations also have. This was necessary because, in addition to the existing country office for Austria, there is also a regional office for Eastern and South-East Europe and for Central Asia in Vienna. One of the current tasks of the IOM is the organisation of travel preparations and execution for the refugees from Syria, who, as the Minister of the Interior has announced, will now come to Austria. We see in the current situation in Syria the importance of rapid and unbureaucratic humanitarian aid on the ground. The IOM currently supports Syrian refugees in their own country and neighbouring countries. Although Austria now absorbs more than twice as many refugees, the number is very small in view of the misery that prevails there. Europe must be committed to providing even more assistance to the neighbouring countries of Syria, otherwise more desperate people will be looking for the way to the EU. However, we want to help them to stay in their own region, to return to their home country after the end of the conflict, and not to build a new existence in the EU. Ladies and gentlemen, it is interesting that the IOM was founded in 1951 for the purpose that the war refugees of the Second World War could return to their homelands. Even now, the IOM is helpful if migrants want to return to their countries of origin. After all, these are 2 600 cases per year, with the IOM supporting and helping with reintegration. Vienna can look back on a long history as the seat of international organizations. In 1957, the International Atomic Energy Authority was the first to be established here, which, through its control tasks, contributed enormously to the safety of nuclear energy management. The Office on Drugs and Crime also makes a significant contribution to combating drug abuse and drug crime. Of course, the international reputation of Austria is increasing through the seat of numerous international organizations in Vienna, and it also includes an interesting economic component. Austria is traditionally a country of dialogue. I ask the Foreign Minister to continue to promote Austria as a host country for international organisations and conferences. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e14534	Mr Bundesminister Kurz has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e14555	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I will not speak on most of the points because everything has been said about them anyway. I can only make a brief comment on two points. It has, I believe, been rightly addressed to the EZA budget. On this point, I would like to say that we are pleased to keep the EZA budget at the same level as in the previous year in 2014 as regards bilateral development cooperation, although something else had originally been planned. In any case, we will be committed to achieving a different result for 2015 than is currently foreseen in the budget. I hope that the implementation will also offer opportunities to move one or another in the EZA area, and I also rely on the overall responsibility of the Federal Government in this area. There are a lot of ministries that thank God also work in the EZA area and make a contribution. This issue is important to us, and it is our responsibility to show as strong a commitment as possible here. That is why we will continue to work in this area. On the second point, agenda item 16: Mr Hübner asked why there are now privileges for the International Organisation for Migration, IOM. I would just like to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that we are very proud of this, Having 37 international organizations in Austria now, and that this is actually an award for us. This gives Austria a political opportunity not only to be a place of dialogue, but also a political opportunity that we would not otherwise have. For all those who are too few, there are also clear facts and facts that talk about how useful it is to have international organisations in Austria. Through these 37 international organizations, we have a re-route profitability of over €500 million per year. They create 10,000 jobs directly and indirectly. In this respect, we should be grateful for any international organisation that is willing to operate in Austria. As far as IOM is concerned, I can tell you that, although you said that the organization has been located in Austria since 1954, what you did not mention, Mrs Lintl has mentioned: that the IOM Office in Vienna has recently carried out a much wider task and that the IOM missions in south-eastern Europe, Turkey, Eastern Europe, Central Asia and Israel are being cared for by Vienna. I see this as a success and, on the contrary, to you, I believe that it is useful to create jobs here and that it makes sense to achieve an economic reciprocity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e14600	Mrs. Dr.ck has now come to the fore. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e14622	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) A great deal has already been said about this office agreement. The privilege discussion is always aroused by the moods. It should be important, however, to delete our world-wide position with this, as well as the reciprocity that the Federal Minister has already mentioned. The current established international organisations generate a positive net effect of €500 million for the Republic. We must not forget the congresses associated with the international organizations that bring us another € 230 million. Summa summarum, including the economic multipliers, makes this area a contribution of €1.5 billion to the gross domestic product. Mr Hübner, we would cut ourselves into our own meat if we did not grant these privileges which these organizations find in all countries. Paris, Geneva, London would like to take over these organizations. Mr. Federal Minister, I am glad that you are so open that you are committed to further settlements of international organisations and to the further holding of international conferences. We have created an excellent infrastructure for this in the last decades in Vienna, but also in other federal states, and our economy is doing this well.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e14655	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. No final word is desired on the part of the reporting. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall first proceed to the vote on agenda item 13: Proposal from the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Internal Agreement between the representatives of the Governments of the Member States of the European Union, meeting within the Council, on the financing of the European Union assistance provided for in the Multiannual Financial Framework for the period 2014 to 2020 under the ACP EU Partnership Agreement and on the provision of financial assistance to the overseas countries and territories to which the Fourth Part of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union applies, in 5 of the Supplements as appropriate. Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 B-VG. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Windbüchler-Souschill, colleagues, on: Strengthen development cooperation as a general government responsibility – implement government programme. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. That's why I'm doing this. The votes to be used are in the House of Deputies and bear the name of the Deputies as well as the name "Yes" – these are the grey ballots – or "No" – which are the pink ones. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would ask those Members who vote in favour of the motion for a resolution to vote in favour of 'yes', those who vote against 'no' vote. Please also make sure that you only have a single vote! Last time, it happened again that two ballots had landed in the urn one and the same Members. I now ask the author, Mr Zanger, to begin the call for name. Mr Buchmayr will replace him later.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e14757	The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make the number of votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. The meeting will be suspended for this purpose.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e14801	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 167; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 35, No votes: 132. The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Windbüchler-Sushill, ladies and gentlemen, is therefore rejected. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Alm, Aslan; Brosz, Brunner; Dietrich; Ertlschweiger; Franz; Hagen; Jarmer; Kochl, Korun; Light ecker, Lintl; Maurer, Meinl-Reisinger, Mlinar, Mückstein, Musiol; Pirklhuber, Pock; Rossmann; Treasure, Gift, Scherak, Schmid Julian, Schwentner, Steinbichler, Steinhauser; Vavrik, Vetter; Walser, refuser, Willi, Windbüchler-Sushill; Zinggl. Members voted with ‘No’: Amon, Antoni, Aubauer, Auer, Bacher Walter, Bayr, Becher Ruth, Belakovich-Jenewein, Berlakovich, Bösch, Buchmayr; Cap; Darabos, Darmann, Deimek, Diesner-Wais, Doppler, strike; Ecker, Ehmann, El Habbassi, Eßl, Fichtinger Klaus Uwe, Fekter, Fichtinger Angela, Fuchs; Gahr, Gartelgruber, Gerstl, Gessl-Ranftl, Greiner Karin, Grillitsch, Groiß, Grossmann, Gusenbauer-Jäger; Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hafenecker, Hakel Elisabeth, Hammer Michael, Hanger Andreas, Haubner, Hauser, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Himmelbauer, Höbart, Hofinger Manfred, Höfinger Johann, Holzinger, Huainigg, Hübner; Jank, Jannach, Jarolim; Karl, Karlsböck, Katzian, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Kitzmüller, Knes, Königsberger-Ludwig, Kopf, Krainer Kai Jan, Krist, Kucharovich, Kucher, Kunasek, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Lopatka, Lueger Angela; Matznetter, Mayer, Mölzer, Muchitsch, Mühlberghuber, Muttonen; Neubauer Werner; Oberhauser, Obernosterer, Ovenauer, Ottenschlager; Pendl, Pfurtscheller, Plessl, Podgorschek, Prammer, Preiner, Prince; Rädler, Rasinger, Rauch Johannes, Rauch Walter, Riemer, Rosenkranz Barbara, Rosenkranz Walter; Schellenbacher, Schieder, Schittenhelm, Schmid Gerhard, Schmidenschlager, Schönegger, Schrangl, Schultes, Sieber Norbert, Singer Johann, Spindelberger, Stefan, Steinacker, Strache, Strasser; Tamandl, Themessl, Girls, By; sub-railers; Vogl; Weninger, Wimmer, Winter, tiny, Wittmann, Wevinger, Worm Gisela, Worm Peter; Yılmaz; Zakostelsky, singer.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e14989	Mr Matznetter spoke on business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e15013	Madam President. I've had a new place since two sessions. And I threw a pink card from another Member here when I filed it because I didn't control the name. A colleague told me, but the card was already inside. Now I've given my card in properly. Only: The other card was not issued by the colleague. I would like to add that to the Minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e15038	This will therefore be taken into account and added to the vote. That's all I can do. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 14: Proposal from the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Agreement amending for the second time the Partnership Agreement between the members of the African, Caribbean and Pacific Group of States, of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part, signed in Cotonou on 23 March. It was first amended in Luxembourg on 25 June 2000 and amended for the first time on 25 June 2000. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to expenditure on expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to the expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure and expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure and I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who have given their consent to a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 15: Proposal from the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Framework Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of the Philippines, of the other part, in 29 of the Supplements referred to in Article 50(1). 1 Z 1 B-VG. Whoever gives his consent, I ask for a sign to be given the same. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall also vote on the request of the Foreign Policy Committee that the Bulgarian, Danish, English, Estonian, Finnish, French, Greek, Italian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Maltese, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Swedish, Slovak, Slovenian, Spanish, Czech and Hungarian language versions of this State Treaty in accordance with Article 49(1). 2 B-VG should be made known by the fact that they are open to public consultation in the Federal Ministry of Europe, Integration and External Affairs. Whoever gives his consent, I ask for a sign to be given the same. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 16: Proposal from the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Agreements between the Republic of Austria and the International Organisation for Migration on the legal status of the organisation in Austria and the seat of its offices in Vienna in 13 of the supplements referred to in Article 50 para. 1 Z 1 B-VG. Whoever gives his consent, I ask for a sign to be given the same. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 17: Proposal from the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Agreements between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Cyprus on the use of airports and other entities in the Republic of Cyprus in the case of evacuations from third countries in 15 of the supplements referred to in Article 50(1). 1 Z 1 B-VG. Whoever gives his consent, I ask for a sign to be given the same. – This is unanimously accepted. [[17:23:40]] 18. Point Report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on Amendment No 173/A(E) by Dr Reinhold Lopatka, Dr Josef Cap, Tanja Windbüchler-Sushill, Mag. Christoph Vavrik, Dr. Jessi Lintl, colleagues on the use of democratic development in Ukraine (110 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e15143	We're going to the 18th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Hübner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e15170	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, one word on the last item on the agenda: An Ant- In my opinion, Mr Kurz is still speaking, and that is why at European level, with all the arguments you have made, it is not possible for European or at least EU members to refrain from applying these privileges to international organisations. [[Interference of Federal Minister Kurz.]] For Europe! The fact that the European States, on the one hand, refrain from applying these privileges to their citizens on the other hand. I don't understand! [[New interim remark by Federal Minister Kurz.]] That the European organisations, the European Member States for their citizens, do not apply diplomat privileges to all international organisations, because there is a common economic area – that the Germans say: We are very willing to pay VAT for the cars of our diplomats in Vienna and vice versa! Yes. [[Further notice by Federal Minister Kurz.]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e15221	Please don't talk to me! Mr Hübner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e15239	We want to continue the conversation another time. But now to the Ukraine request. The Ukraine proposal is completely obsolete and therefore we cannot accept it in the form it is now in place. This is not the fault of the applicants, but it is simply the duration of an application to the plenary session. Content: Yes, what stands in there is of course everything beautiful and good, but we have events that have been dramatic. And if you make a Ukraine application, it must be inside. This is the first and most essential thing that is missing: that the European Union, and also Austria, has a major responsibility for the present chaotic situation, because the European Union has made a massive contribution to achieving a violent revolution in Ukraine. All right! The European Union has imposed unilateral sanctions on leading people of the Yanukovych regime and in a few days has resulted in the collapse of this regime. Austria has carried this, imposed unilateral sanctions. I can already ask in general if it is in the interest of a neutral Austrian policy to interfere in other countries so far that individuals – individuals! – with sanctions, it is with the aim of overthrowing, weakening, abdicating a government. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It's very important! That is an answer that the Minister must consider and give himself. What happened later on is that very quickly after the collapse of the regime and after the crisis, sanctions were also imposed on Russia – in turn against people! Now, in turn, we have imposed sanctions on European sanctions, only yesterday and yesterday, American and European – in turn against individuals whose “crime or crime” – under quotation marks – it has been pro-Russian, pro-autonomistic in Ukraine, or only per Putin. Is this a foreign policy: that as a neutral country, we help individuals to know that they are anything?- Oh, my God! – So I can’t imagine that this is in the broadest sense compatible with our previous political understanding. I can't imagine that. I cannot imagine that, in particular, because we are always talking about dialogue and the forum and about the Austrian neutrality or the role of intermediaries and about equidistance and the need to settle disputes through negotiations and through contacts. Do you really believe, Minister, that the sanctioning of individuals because of regime kindness or unkindness is the way of dialogue, bridge building, neutrality? Faith Do you really think that the Austrian neutrality expert team you sent to Kiev will bring a good business card if the whole of sanctions against individuals is accompanied for political reasons? - Not me! Now to the Greens' request a comment. - That goes a little further: There is even a demand for a arms embargo against Russia. Not that Russia will be particularly disturbed if Europe imposes an arms embargo on Russia because arms exports are truly minimal, but what should be the statement of this measure? Should Austria now throw all its force on one side – to the American side? It's not about the Ukrainian and the Russian side anymore, but it's an American-Russian war, a special-class powerplay. And you can't justify that morally. Or, question to the Greens: Have you ever heard from this corner – from the American corner – about possible sanctions, for example, against Egypt? There at least there was a coup against a democratically elected regime, last summer. After all! Since then, between 4,000 and 4,200 people have been shot on the streets, killed in prisons, lost and so on. There have now been the two largest blocks of death sentences against political opponents in the post-stalinist era. These figures have recently been achieved in the case of cleanings 1948/49. Since then, there has been no such thing. And do you know what sanctions have been imposed? – The U.S. Congress has now decided to grant aid to the Egyptian military – to the Egyptian military, not to humanitarian matters, to development or to water or health care – to the amount of $1.35 billion for this year as well. – So much about the human rights situation, about the equidistance of politics! So much on the question where we stand today! We are doing a policy here and there which represents a unilateral party for a superpower under the pretext of protecting human rights, protecting states and so on, and this is a fundamental violation, as I see it, against our self-understanding, that is a provider of a superpower that has in no way acted morally, which has in no way adhered to international standards that have trampled on international law. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I do not need to remind again and again of what happened in Kosovo or Iraq or Afghanistan or Guantanamo, or what the NSA has listed and so on. All of this is hidden, and Austrian domestic policy is blind, as led by a blind stick, by American standards, which the European Union is also adopting. The failure of the European Union is best reflected in the NSA scandal. Nothing shows us more dramatic than the fact that snowden is not offered asylum in any European country – in no single country! – although he has done a political service to the European countries like no one else, although he has led things before them or, if one wants to, has forced them to see things that they may already have known, but which are of invaluable value to the population. And this snowden has had no other way than to get in Russia with much hurt and oh asylum. [[Abg. Darabos: Without any thought!]] Without any thought, yes. Mr. Col., what do you mean, "without any thought"? - That the Russians were not angry about it, that's clear. But is it not a shame – I am now asking you as a social democrat – that someone like Edward Snowden does not get asylum from anyone in Europe?- Oh, my God! In Europe, we give hundreds of thousands of people every year asylum status – not per decade, per year! – hundreds of thousands from Black Africa, but not snowing. For formal reasons! Yes, he would have to leave there once and then perhaps be able to apply for asylum in America. The excuses should come together once, Mr Minister, namely the absurdities of the excuses that European politicians have used to justify why Snowden does not receive asylum. I'll end with this and I'll have to say: I believe that we do not agree with these two requests. I have had sufficient reason to do so. My request to all Members of Parliament is to review these matters once again, not only the opinion published, but not just the comments of the Austrian Foreign Ministry or the European Commission or of Mrs Ashton or Mr Obama, but also to make a picture of things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e15316	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Lopatka is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e15337	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is very good that at this hour we are dealing with this issue here. We do not know how things continue with Ukraine, and perhaps this question will take even greater advantage of us than we can estimate today. The opinion expressed here by Mr Hübner that the European Union would have contributed to the situation would be classified as “very tight” at an international conference. There is no way to follow you, because something has gone well, Mr Hübner, in the assignment of what has happened here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice.]] I hope you see it as an illegal act of international law. [[Abg. Deimek: What about Kosovo?]] We are no longer talking about what Russia has done in Ukraine, because Crimea was and is part of Ukraine, and I am sorry that it is not really talking about the step Russia has taken there. [[Abg. Deimek: You shouldn't twist reality!]] This is not comparable to Kosovo at all. But this is your form of foreign policy! Also, that's very tight what you're saying here. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Deimek.]] They are going to the same level as the self-proclaimed rulers in the eastern Ukraine, where the mayor of Slavyansk, Vyacheslaw Ponomarjow, has said about the release of the OSCE representatives who are held by him, he is only willing to talk if the EU thinks about lifting the sanctions. [[Abg. Deimek: And in Egypt?]] That's blackmail pure what's done there! That is not the way to deal with this at international level. This may be the methods some of them fall from the FPÖ. Only: These are Wildwest methods that have long been overcome on the international level. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Windbüchler-Sauschill.]] I really have zero understanding of where you, starting from visiting Kadyrow, now want to go back to what Putin has done up to your analysis of the Eastern Ukraine. [[Subsequent calls to the FPÖ.]] There we would be completely outside the international community. The only thing that brings us forward here is if Russia is being led to actually participate in a de-escalation, and not, if we justify what is done by Russia in any form. We can't and we can't. We cannot and must not put economic interests ahead of everyone else. These are fundamental questions: Have we overcome the phase of the Cold War, where weapons were decided, where violently decided? That is exactly what it is all about, I would like to talk about: that Austria has really positioned itself here, that the Foreign Minister and the Austrian Federal Government have really positioned themselves here, saying that we are doing everything we can to do in order to act violently and provocatively, to do everything we can to implement Geneva's decisions, and to do everything that Russia is willing to make substantial contributions to de-escalation. That's what it's all about! And there the European Union must be strong and, I say, the free West must be strong. [[Abg. Deimek: The Free West Under the Fuchtle of America!]] And the offer we have must be so strong that people on the ground freely decide whether they offer the model Putin, or whether they want the model of free Western democracies. That is a fundamental question of democracy policy. I sometimes wonder what kind of thinking individual Members of the FPÖ really are at home in, I tell you. To accuse the EU of causing the situation in Ukraine, I really cannot follow that view. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Deimek.]] In conclusion: The Foreign Minister does not need to ask how he has to behave here – I am now saying this towards the Greens – when it comes to arms exports. Of course, we assume that we have to comply with this three-stage sanctions plan, and, of course, in Stage 2 and Stage 3, a arms embargo is a target, but there is no need for any calls from the opposition parties. The Foreign Minister is doing great work here. If the liberals do not recognize this, I am glad that this is what the international media and, above all, its ministerial colleagues at the European level, but also beyond Europe, see. I ask the FPÖ to remain careful, especially in the choice of words, so that we as Parliament do not give the impression that there are parts of the Austrian Parliament who believe that this is to be justified by international law, what Russia has done here.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e15469	Mr Hübner has spoken a second time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e15490	I spoke again, because that cannot be allowed to stand in the room, Mr Lopatka – Excuse me! – what you said here. They said it was necessary to prevent a new invasion of the Cold War phase. What are we doing, Mr. Foreign Minister? . We are one of the seisms which blows with all force into the flames of the new Cold War. [[Abg. Lopatka: Perfectly wrong!]] What does “perfectly wrong ” mean here? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What does “perfectly wrong ” mean here? – Such a cold war unfolds before our eyes, the world is divided into friends and enemies of Russia. Whoever is a friend of Russia or Putins is punished. You believe that sanctions against persons close to a regime or a president will not cause flames or blow into the flames that this is a way out of the Cold War, a way to democratic order, to deescalation, to the production of international law?- Oh, my God! - Where is it, please, the case? They say that the European Union has done nothing wrong at all, it has never had a responsibility in relation to the situation in Ukraine. – I remember Mr Kurz here – it is not many weeks ago – celebrating the victory of the pro-European opposition and pro-European forces in Ukraine and calling for the contribution that everyone has made. – Yes, that’s right, a contribution was made. There was a massive contemplation done by American and European organizations as well. There was pressure from the European Union on the regime. At the end – I have already said it – even sanctions were imposed. There are European politicians, active and retired, and they have given a real gas to Majdan. The European Union has nothing to do with this. She didn't do anything, but she stabilized it and calmed it down. The European Union has then brought together an agreement. That's right. This has also led, among other things, to the withdrawal of the police from the public buildings in Kiev, and they have been taken over by the demonstrators within 24 hours – and the regime has collapsed. A violent crash. One can say about the Yanukovych what one wants, he was already corrupt, that might be already, and his people were corrupt. But the regime before that was just as corrupt. And here we do not impose sanctions on corrupt people who plunder the countries and move the assets to Austria, to Europe and to America and Kuwait – that would be all right, then we would support them – but we impose unilateral sanctions on people whose only fault is to stand on the wrong side. And then you say that's a deescalation policy, that's a policy that conforms to international law?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is an illegal action against international law! By the way: The sanctions also violate the principles of the WTO, where we are also members. That's just by the way. Take a look at the WTO's statutes! Russia has so far not argued, but this is a violation of the foundations of international law. If I use these instruments to shoot out individuals because of their political attitude, then I can't claim to be de-escaling or against international violations by breaking international law myself! So, Mr. colleague, this is absolutely to use your words, “very tight”. Excuse me, you said that in English, apparently it is very difficult to express in German, so I use it. That's all I can say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e15546	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e15567	I am simply and simply in favour of addressing the matter differently, because we also have to ask ourselves the question of how to influence development in the future. I have located – we will all have registered this from international media or other reports – that Austria is taking a very balanced position here. There are other countries that go much, much more pronounced in one direction, and perhaps even others again in another direction. But if Mr Bundeskanzler says recently that we believe that our specific call for de-escalation and negotiations is therefore correct, because the debate on sanctions relating to peaceful living together cannot do anything alone, then this is once a baseline in combination with the fact that the Foreign Minister has put several points to the public for discussion, such as, among other things, an arbitrary model of block freedom for Ukraine. I have never heard a call for these economic sanctions from the government, where I also believe that it is absurd to go in this direction, because it is especially so – no, no, sanctions with which one meets the surroundings of Mr Putin or others, with account locks or otherwise, that is not a subject for me, that can be done. [[call to the FPÖ.]] But what is already an issue for me: if you go towards economic sanctions in a situation of mutual economic dependence, both energy and general, of trade, of investment, of everything. That's a fact! [[It was in favour of the FPÖ as well as of representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Those who have looked at today’s “handelsblatt” read that exports and imports of different countries with Russia and Ukraine are already going back. That can't be the goal! This also has an impact on the employment situation, for example in Austria and other countries. What I criticise is that one-third of Ukraine's economic relations with Russia and one-third with the European Union have been ignored. It is precisely the fact that we should have taken into account when it comes to the association agreement. We should have said that if that were the case, we must find a model that, in particular, Ukraine can live on. And I'm going to look at that now – and above all, I'm going to think about those who're talking so big now – who's going to finance Ukraine's development in the future. After all, it is necessary to finance what is happening there when it develops and then develops again! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would ask that a few of the ÖVP welcomes now, because not a few are involved in the field of banking influence of the EIA in Ukraine, are engaged in Russia and we cannot care at all if deescalation, negotiations and economic development do not lead to success and we may have to meet again in order to decide on a new bank package. So there, I think, it is important that you go in this direction and also find alliance partners who take this balanced path of Austria with us. I believe that this is very crucial in the context, because it is also in our interest. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Hold on to OSCE observers, that can't be a way. I think we'll all meet, even if he says these are his guests. To such a hospitality- I do not place any value at all, honestly, and I do not think anyone here wants to find himself in such a hospitality. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am also against the fact that we are making a list of illegal behaviours against international law, and we are putting them on record. So honestly, that doesn't matter now, we have to look into the future. Otherwise, I remember the speech of the Dominique de Villepin in the UN Security Council on the issue of the Iraq war. Because there was no UN mandate, that was also illegal under international law. And so on. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] However, it has still been illegal under international law in Crimea, one must also say. There is no point in recalculating this now and saying what the Americans are allowed to do, so are the Russians. So I don't think that's a way either, we can't support that either. That is, Austria has a very massive interest in peaceful development, in a common Europe – including Russia – which is very crucial, because it is also an economic element, which, I believe, is of the utmost importance. In this direction, the negotiations should go, and the Austrian position should be the one that is equipped with the most perspective in this regard. One last point: If any party or group today believes that with a arms embargo decision against Russia, one of the largest weapons producers there is to produce more than a slight mosquito function in the left ear, then it is really wrong. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at SPÖ and FPÖ]] I'm ready for everything, but I think that's something that fills me with – how should I say? – critical restraint.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e15670	Mrs Windbüchler-Sushill has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e15692	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I find the blue-red Phalanx around my colleagues Cap to be extremely worrying from a green point of view, particularly because it is also about the fact that social-democratic groups in Europe clearly show signs of arms exports stop, an arms embargo and the will to say: We reject violence, that is why we are in favour of a arms embargo – and that is only why we are in favour of an arms embargo. It's a worrying development in the eastern Ukraine, I'm sure you'll all go with me d'accord. The violent conflicts in eastern Ukraine, in particular, show how important it is to insist once again on further sanctions on the part of the European Union. Germany can also be a good example here, because Germany did not impose sanctions on individuals, i.e. persons, but clearly demanded the ceasefire of arms exports. This responsibility has been taken over by Germany, Federal Minister for Economic Affairs Sigmar Gabriel, your colleague, Mr Cap, has taken over quite clearly. Businesses in the arms sector amounting to € 5.18 million for Germany. Perhaps that's just a small sum for Russia, for Germany, I'm sure, it's not that small. The government has also started an examination of how export permits already granted can be dealt with. In other words, even in critical cases, the effect will be to avoid the exportation of the goods concerned. This is a clear signal from the German Federal Government. It is a clear signal from a European state to carry out a arms embargo. According to the EU R & D report, there are exports worth € 118 million to Russia, and it is not that way – and Mr Cap makes no mistake about this situation – that € 118 million would be nothing for the European market; Germany is just about €40 million. But I am aware of why Mr Cap is so vehemently opposed: because France and its colleagues in France have been made so much dependent on the arms industry because they have to run an economy that lives on jobs in the arms industry, which seems to be closer to you than the development in Ukraine. We also need to discuss how economies can actually work in these times and whether the arms industry is really the right way to secure jobs. That is why this motion for a resolution is also being tabled. He is a clear sign against violence, against the dead, against pro-Russian separatists, who so to speak, who hold the OSCE observers as prisoners of war; for them is the state of war in the eastern Ukraine. We have a very clear response here. Therefore, the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e15755	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e15845	Mr Bundesminister Kurz has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e15867	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I can say that I see the proposal very positively, because it clearly strengthens us in our Austrian line, which represents the Federal Government. From the outset, Austria has tried to play a very balanced role within the European Union. We were always in the circle of those who did not press for sanctions, but rather, on the contrary, who have always voted in favour of also seeking to talk with Russia. We are in the circle of all those who have said consciously that economic sanctions should only be the Ultima Ratio, and we are not pressing for this level of sanctions, but, quite the contrary, are among those who are very reluctant. In my opinion, however, the Chancellor rightly agreed to the three-stage plan in Brussels, because being neutral, not being militaryly neutral does not mean having no opinion, nor does it mean not recognizing violations of international law. The sending of Russian soldiers to Crimea was clearly illegal to international law, and the referendum that was carried out there did not comply with international standards, but, quite the contrary, the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe clearly stated that there were anything other than appropriate framework conditions here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Hübner, if you are now trying to impoverish the Russian actions, I have relatively little understanding of this. I would remind you that we also have Austrian OSCE observers on the ground, and I believe that we should be very solid toward the Germans and the other countries, who are suffering from the fact that their OSCE observers have been abducted and detained. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of SPÖ and Greens.]] This is an absolutely unacceptable behavior from all those who are responsible for it. And I would like to ask you the question as to how you would have seen it if you had been active as an international observer or at least as a FPÖ observer in Crimea and the other side would have kidnapped and held you there. [[Abg. Beautiful: But these were not the Russians!]] The last point I would like to address is the idea of the arms embargo or the idea of trying to ban imports or exports of arms. We in Brussels have made a very positive statement about this, because it is already, and that is perfectly true, there are some European countries that have a very intense business relationship with Russia in this area. I do not think that this must be achieved per se, but if we look at the three levels of sanctions, then it is not true that, if they were to come, economic sanctions would start at the same time in all areas, but, quite the contrary, the European Union has different considerations if there were economic sanctions, in which areas they would then start. I do not hope that there will be economic sanctions, and we should not look at them, but if it were to happen, I think that in my opinion the area of weapons would definitely be one where it would be right to start. However, this contradicts the interests of other countries, and, accordingly, my speech by representatives of some other European countries was also recorded in Brussels at the time. Finally, I can use the opportunity to thank all officials responsible for organizing the Council of Europe Ministerial Conference next week. I can inform you that, at the end of our Council of Europe activity, which I believe we have conducted very intensively, there will be a ministerial conference in Vienna next week, in which numerous foreign ministers will participate. It was a great achievement of the diplomats responsible that, despite the difficult situation, it was possible to decide on an agenda that was even supported by Russians and formed by all the forces in consensus. This is anything but a matter of course and, as I believe, a great achievement for all those officials who work in Strasbourg in the Council of Europe for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e15915	Next speaker: Mrs Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e15937	Madam President. Minister! High house! Mr Kurz, no, Mr Hübner does not embarrass anything, especially because it is also a vocabulary that does not fit into the sphere of politics. I am very happy, I am delighted and I say – although then again a axis is conjured – that MP Cap has brought the debate back into politics from the field of morals. This is reassuring, because conflicts become really dangerous when you start to divide into the good and into the evil and in the black and white, when you play the moral card instead of doing what you have to do in politics, simply and simply notice: States have interests, and everyone must be interested in representing and defending these interests under international law. If we were to start counting now, we would have to sit here for a few minutes to be able to hold on to who has already represented all his interests against international law. And these too, for which you are so strong in the party, are massively involved. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is not easy, by the way, because international law of course also offers potential for conflict, especially in Crimea: the integrity of states on the one hand, part of international law, on the other hand the self-determination. the right of peoples and ethnic groups, even if they are already part of a state. A field of tension that is massively broken up, and as a neutral, we do well not to put ourselves on one side without letup. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This, Mr Klubobmann, is also not “very tight”, but reasonable. And you will know, in particular, that in the case of the Federal Republic of Germany, it is an immeasurable pity which all, for example, two German old chancellors are committed to a reasonable, de-escaling, political attitude, and I believe that we should do the same. However, it is only possible to deescalize if you apply a cool rational view of things. That makes sense, that can prevent escalation, that can create peace, that is political, and that is above all the attitude that is the only possible for us as a neutral.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e15994	Next speaker: Mrs Dr Lintl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e16015	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! We have formulated this joint proposal and put it in place two months ago and called for the commitment to democratic development in Ukraine. Since then, numerous initiatives have emerged that are committed to a positive development. A civil observer commission of the OSCE under Austrian participation is also planned. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] But now we have got these terrible news that OSCE observers have been held, supposedly by a small group of radicals of a Russian minority. And that's not how it is! If people already make themselves available for an observer mission, are highly motivated and put their lives at risk in order to support the formation of democratic standards, then security must also be guaranteed. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Amon.]] The need to demand from the Member States of the OSCE – including Russia and Ukraine – is that the personal safety and integrity of observers are guaranteed. Everything else is counterproductive and does not help Ukraine. I think we all consider it unacceptable that observers should fear their lives. I assume and ask you, Minister of Foreign Affairs, that you are really committed to making sure that something like that doesn't happen anymore. Thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e16058	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Vavrik. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e16079	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Dear hypo-numbers and hypo-counters on the audience edges and in front of the screens! First, a small correction: I would like to say that NEOS has, of course, voted in the Committee on the Arms Trade Treaty, which was a protocolic mistake which I noticed only yesterday and which will be corrected. Secondly, I would like to thank the Federal Minister for his clear words, on the occasion of his visit to Iran, on the death penalty. I don't know if my Speaking, when we met last time here, something has contributed to this, by a somewhat graphic presentation of the death penalty, but however that is also true: Thank you very much for addressing the subject quite well and mercilessly on occasion. In Vienna Donaustadt, in the Danube City area, there is a promenade called Isidro-Fabela-Promenade. Who is Isidro Fabela? Does anyone know that among the colleagues who listen to the few? - No? Isidro Fabela was the representative of Mexico at the World Federation in 1938, and he wrote the protest note against the “connection” of Austria to the German Empire. At that time, Mexico was the only country that officially protested against the so-called connection. The promenade was named after him, and also, to the memory, the Mexicoplatz in Vienna Leopoldstadt. I mention this because, like today, the community of states encounters a large, dictatorial, militaryly uplifting country that is interfering in the internal affairs of a smaller neighbouring country. Back in Austria, today in Ukraine. At that time, as today, we are facing a state that cannot hurt the loss of its supremacy, which feels humiliated by the international community of states, which feels unfair, who has imperial ambitions, wants to turn the wheel of history back in part, seeks territorial enlargement, pursues an immoral, volcanic foreign policy doctrine, and agrees with the smaller neighbour's full sovereignty with the arguments of the same language, common culture, common history. At that time Austria, today Ukraine. At that time, as today, a country tries to extortion its neighbors economically. At that time, as today, a country is trying to use the fact that its neighbour is in a deep political and economic crisis for its own nationalist purposes. At that time Austria, today Ukraine. At that time, as today, the larger country benefits from the fact that the smaller country is still in the search for a national identity, it is shy, threatening it unblemished. At that time Austria and today Ukraine. At that time, as today, a country is exerting its imperial interests by infiltrating first, then interventioning in the military and lastly annexed. Back in Austria, yesterday in Georgia and today in Ukraine. At that time, as today, the international community looks away by a majority, acting in a loss of rattling, helpless, disunity and, as a whole, weak. Only a relatively undivided country, i.e. Mexico, then voted that a de facto annexation of a smaller country simply cannot be accepted by an overpowered neighbor. Austria can and should, according to this model, be stronger for Ukraine what Mexico was for Austria in 1938. Austria could show that it has drawn the lessons from history that, due to the painful experience of its own, it recognizes that compliance with the European peace order – because it is about the European peace order and not just the interests of some banks in Ukraine or Russia, Mr. Cap – that the preservation of the peace order in dealing with a state such as today’s Russia, led by a dictator of the blow of a Putin, not only can be achieved through a policy of abuse. Peace also requires determined, courageous action. Yes, peace costs something; but the costs of the alternatives are disproportionately higher. In this sense, Austria – within the framework of the EU, the United Nations, the Council of Europe – the initiator of a more independent and courageous, more determined policy towards Russia. And yes, this should be done in the form of stronger political sanctions. There is still a lot of room, up to and including, if necessary, economic sanctions. And maybe one day there will be an Austria square in Kiev. Yes, and perhaps, Minister of State, a short-promenade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e16167	Next, Mr Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e16189	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not know whether there is a second colleague in this House, who was born in 1968, on 21 December 1968. August, military service. I was on duty that day. It was the day of the occupation of Czechoslovakia. And I will never forget how on that day in the early morning, at around 4.30 p.m., the order of the mobilization came from the officer of the day because at the border a foreign power has been raised. Therefore, since that day I have been very sensitive to such processes as they are currently taking place in Ukraine. I also say that I do not know and am not sure whether sanctions are the right means. That may be already, you can ask a question. Perhaps it would be better to make even more offers of dialogue, to appeal even more to reason, so to speak, to a peaceful relationship. But if OSCE observers are captured – and Austrians have been on the road very often, especially in this area – I wonder how the reaction would be if Austrian OSCE observers were captured, whether we would be impoverishing the debate here, as it were. That is why I can already appeal to acknowledge that it is necessary to make it clear to Russia that this is not the case! [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] I cannot follow the view that the European Union would have contributed to this escalation or debate. I clearly say that, I can't follow it. It would be important to take the old treasure of experience that by talking or by speaking people come together seriously here too. Sanctions should never and should never be self-interest, but they must remain in line with politics, nor can they be the goal and the end of politics, because there is always the risk that politics will lose control of the means and the extent of the conflict. Sanctions must be measured on the question of: How much, how far, and when is it enough? Who gives political control? Sanctions are always double-edged when they are serious. You think you know where you start, and you can't determine where you end up. Only one thing, and I say that in the direction of the colleague Rosenkranz: Yes, it's right, states are interested and have interests. But the interests of states to whom democracy must not be sacrificed!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e16241	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall vote on the resolution on the use of democratic developments in Ukraine, annexed to the Committee's report 110 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. (E 18.) We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Windbüchler-Souschill, colleagues on the use of a European arms embargo against the Russian Federation. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[18:11:16]] 19. Point Report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on Amendment No 232/A(E) by Mr Tanja Windbüchler-Sushill, Members of Parliament on Harmful Practices based on Tradition, Culture, Religion or Superstition (111 d.e.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e16310	We're entering the 19th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs Pfurtscheller is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e16338	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Estimated to viewer! There are around 140 million women worldwide who have become victims of genital mutilation. Especially in parts of Africa and Asia, this terrible practice is considered a tradition that many girls do not survive every year because they are bleeding or dying of infections. If they survive, these poor women are often physically and psychologically damaged. According to estimates for the spread of female genital mutilation, in short in English, FGM, more than 2,000 circumcised women live in Austria and 8,000 women are currently threatened with circumcision. In Austria, there are already a number of legal regulations to combat female circumcision. FGM or the consent to it has been prohibited by law in Austria since 2001. Art. 90 in the Criminal Code has also been extraterritorial since 2012 to prosecute the circumcision of girls and women abroad. A potential threat by FGM is also taken into account in asylum applications. At international level, Austria has been working for years in the framework of the United Nations, the Council of Europe and the EU against harmful traditional practices on women and girls. Recently, about 58. Meeting of the United Nations Women's Status Commission. Austria has successfully negotiated this subject area for the EU as a whole. This made a significant contribution to the elaboration of the post-2015 development agenda. N. Austria is committed to a sustainable anchorage of the rights and empowerment of women and girls within the framework of the current post-2015 process, both at the level of the United Nations and within the EU. This includes, on the one hand, the demand for a human rights-based approach to all the objectives of the future agenda and, on the other, the concrete call for a separate gender target, which should not only strengthen women but also eliminate harmful practices, such as female genital mutilation. A National Action Plan on the protection of women from violence is currently being prepared within the framework of an interministerial working group. Civil society representatives are involved in the process. The National Action Plan is to be adopted in 2014 and, in the current state, also includes measures against harmful traditional practices, such as the protection of Austrians with migration background from forced marriage, as well as projects to prevent and combat violence against women, including FGM and other harmful practices, by the ÖEZA. Ladies and gentlemen! So you see, the Austrian Federal Government, especially our Minister for Europe, Integration and Foreign Affairs, Sebastian Kurz, is already very busy with the implementation of the demands mentioned in the Greens' request. Nevertheless, or precisely so, we will be happy to support this motion for a resolution. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e16402	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e16423	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! FGM or genital mutilation, homicide, forced ewes, feminicide, all these are crimes committed to women, to young girls, in other words, gender-specific crimes that we have to deal with here. This is more than our duty, that is more than necessary! In Austria we have already set out a lot, whether it be a whole series of anti-violence laws that we have passed, whether it be the emergency apartment installed last year for forced-married girls and women. On the other hand, the Istanbul Convention has now been adopted at the Council of Europe during our presidency. Austria was one of the first countries to sign and then ratified in Parliament last year. These terrible acts, these terrible crimes, whether they are homicides, whether this is the forced marriage of young girls – an 11-year-old girl is married to a rather older gentleman beyond 40 or 50 –... – Yes, these are in relation to them more than 30 years, and the child is eleven years. [[Calls:Hello]] That's not tolerable! On the other hand, it is a very important goal. Detto is the homicide of which one doesn't hear only over and over again, but it simply happens and often isn't really revealed, because the family association holds together accordingly. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] As I said, it is necessary, on the one hand, to do everything in Austria – through the NAP, as the colleague Pfurtscheller has already mentioned – but, on the other hand, to continue, of course, in the process, that it is not internationally justified with any tradition, with no culture, with no religion, in fact, to undermine human rights, to tread human rights. In the final effect it is always about violence against women, against women, because they become very many around the world. In this sense, I am glad that Mrs Windbüchler-Souschill has initiated and jointly adopted this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e16463	The next item is Mrs Windbüchler-Sushill. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e16484	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If an Eleven-year-old has to marry a man over 40 years old, it is not possible for us to imagine what happens to this young girl, what she suffers and what violence she actually has to endure. In English, there is the beautiful expression survivers, namely for those women who have actually survived such violent relations, such violent applications. It is indescribable, inconceivable, any form of violence: psychological violence, physical violence and sexual violence. Moreover – and this is another major problem – that through the use of violence teenage pregnancies happen in young girls' bodies that are not yet ready to bring children to the world. 39,000 girls under the age of 18 are married daily. Every ninth girl worldwide gets married before it becomes 15 years old. The problem is that this happens especially in the poorest areas of the world, there is no health care there, there are no midwives there, there are no educational facilities for girls and young women at the same time, which would be important to protect these girls in fact. That is, these experience forced marriage, violence, pregnancy and death. It is our job to act very clearly here. The aim is to ensure food security, food sovereignty, to combat hunger, to enable access to education for girls and young women, and to prohibit children under 15 years of age. It is currently being discussed that Iraq wants to adopt a new law allowing nine-year-olds to marry, but it needs to be done very clearly. And it is about poverty being effectively prevented. It also needs financial support, not a question. This also requires the organizations that work multilaterally. Unfortunately, we have learned today that the amount of UNICEF's child assistance work will be drastically reduced in 2014, halved from € 2 million to just over € 1 million. Mr Minister, I would also ask you, in the course of this request, to consider once again the fact that no cuts will be made in the field of multilateral relations.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e16534	Mrs Lintl spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e16555	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! We support the Green motion for a resolution, because the dangers to which girls in many countries are exposed. Those exposed are totally unacceptable. It is good that these culturally-related abuses, which clearly contradict human rights, are becoming increasingly acute. Austria is aware of its responsibility and, of course, supports all international initiatives aimed at fighting Harmful Practices. In the countries where this is happening, we cannot do much, but in our culture we must not do so. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Walser.]] In Austria, female genital mutilations have been prohibited by law since 2001. While there is also a legal obligation for doctors to report such suspicions, there is little control for this. We therefore call for an integrative educational work by all parties involved, i.e. by gynecologists, pediatricians, midwives, but also by teachers and integration representatives. The NGOs in Austria, which have contributed a lot to the educational work in recent years, have a lot of know-how and are valuable partners in cooperation. It is also important to offer uncomplicated and open contact between the contact points for vulnerable women and families. We want to make a strong effort to protect the potential victims, because our society cannot stand by here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e16603	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Karlsböck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e16625	Mr President. Minister! I would like to speak briefly on this very important subject. It's a basic consensus matter, we don't need to discuss it at all. If I see this request here, three names of people who have also impressed me very much. The first name is Waris Dirie. She wrote a book, after which there was an impressive film, called “desert flower. ” That's what most people will know. I've seen the movie again recently, by chance in the evening in the late evening program – a really very touching, impressive film that shows how this problem of genital circumcision is actually happening in girls around the world. One must admit, of course, that there has been awareness raising in recent decades. But when we talk about it, and also about Austrian foreign policy, Mr Minister, it is simply important to always have these things in hand and point out at every opportunity, without regard to diplomatic developments. Of course, we know that it is quite difficult worldwide to get into traditional areas, especially when it comes to religious practices. We have held the discussion on circumcision in Europe last year and have also reached compromise agreements in the legislation here. However, this compromise ceases somewhere, and especially with the circumcision of girls, as well as with forced married people – from an Austrian point of view – we have to intervene with the full hardness of the law. This must also be stressed here, even from this point of view, when it comes to foreign policy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Minister, I would have liked to know something about you a little different from the actual subject, which we discussed last time in committee. am. I have two names on my list, which are symbolic of oppression, arbitrariness and religious insecurity. This is at Iran Pastor Saeed on the one hand. I don't know if you've addressed this delicate subject on your last trip. I'll just repeat it: A pastor who has felt called to invite young men and also young women to house churches and tell them about Christianity has been imprisoned for several years. There is a need for a humanitarian solution. And that's just the policy. Please tell us what you did here. The second person is a young man in North Korea who has done the same, who is imprisoned only because of religious conviction or the approach of employment with religion. I believe that, from our parliaments, we must show real strength and strength in a consensus. Today we have also talked about Ukraine; our clubman has found clear words. We did it from our side. I believe that we also need to find very clear words, because this is not about tanks, not war, but simply about human rights, about fundamental rights. A society is as strong as the liberality it shows in these areas. I also expect Austrian foreign policy to intervene and appear with all its hardness against diplomatic complications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e16692	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution on Harmful Practices based on tradition, culture, religion or superstition attached to the Committee's report 111 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 19.) [[18:28:13]] 20. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors’ report Series Bund 2012/11 (III-13/95 D.B.) 21. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors’ report Series Bund 2013/5 (III-18/96 d.B.) 22. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors’ report Series Bund 2012/4 (III-8/97 d.b.) 23. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors’ report Series Bund 2013/11 (III-29/124 D.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e16774	We now come to points 20 to 23 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. I call Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e16802	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors' current reports deal mainly with educational matters, one of which we have also discussed very intensively, namely those concerning the New Secondary Schools, will then be discussed and discussed here in the House later. On the one hand, we are dealing with the 2012 cross-sectional report. In the area of the Länder of Lower Austria and Styria, this study examined the allocation of funds and the implementation of the extension of the childcare of the zero to 16-year-olds. Here it is very striking and exemplary to point out how much attention must be paid if funds are given by the federal government in countries, especially when it comes to how efficiently they are used. I believe that this report is a real fund for future consultations, investment or financial offers. The second The area is the cross-sectional examination of 2012 which affected the federal states of Carinthia, Lower Austria and Salzburg. This is about the teachers' use of the federal states, the accuracy of the billing as well as the state teacher controlling regulation. This is also an issue which has touched us very strongly in recent weeks and which has almost seamlessly followed the first Court of Auditors report: How do countries deal with the resources transferred or not transferred? How are teachers used? How is that calculated? And is there the possibility that the one who pays can also buy or at least share or control it? Now I would like to refer briefly to a report that we once had in the Constitutional Subcommittee. There a colleague from the ÖVP asked you, Mr President, how many teachers are paid by the federal government who do not stand in any class. And then you had to answer, you could not say that because the countries do not provide any information about it. – This is the experience gained constantly when dealing with these control reports. Then we are dealing with the personnel situation of the Federal Teachers, which is also discussed in great detail, and with the report on the outsourcing of the BIFIE. The various areas will then be dealt with in detail by my fellow Members in the Committee, I would like to touch very briefly on the area of BIFIE. The control gaps were indeed terrifying, and the testimony that you, Mr President, have issued to the responsible director Dr. Haider and Dr. Lucyshyn – and so you have to put that to the point – is and was disastrous and led on the one hand to discharge, on the other hand to non-renewal. It is gratifying that the Court’s recommendations have been largely implemented, as far as possible. The BIFIE has important tasks, with PIRLS, TIMSS and PISA and so on and so on, but also inside with the education standards and the new Matura. But the new leaders have to take advantage of their opportunity, otherwise it says: Get away with this dissemination and repatriation! I know that my speaking time – and also the speaking time for my colleagues in the political groups – is very short, but I would like to point out something that will be up-to-date over the next few weeks and months, namely the report you and IHS, WIFO and the local scientific documentation centre on school administration, which was also dealt with in the relevant committee and which, in fact, clearly reveals and explains how we will have to deal with school administration and school in general in the future. It is really a guide that will be supported by all those involved in matter and that should be a directive for us in this House too. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e16850	Mr Gahr. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e16871	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Mayer has now delivered a cross-section on the Court of Auditors' reports on education. I believe that in all the reports that are being discussed here today, there is a need for improvement and optimization. But the 2008 report on BIFIE's disseminating has shown that there was a high need for action, and the results clearly show that there were indeed many mistakes and shortcomings. The key tasks of BIFIE, such as applied education research, education monitoring, quality assurance and regular and national reporting, have not been fulfilled. There have been significant criticisms that there have been rising expenditure, especially on what has affected grants. The budget has exploded from 7.36 million to 15.12 million from 2008 to 2010. The establishment of multiple sites resulted in double structures and inefficiency in the administration. Staff expenditure has increased dramatically. It has also been shown that there has been a lack of control and gaps in the control system. Mrs Bundesminister stressed in the Committee that this Court of Auditors report has led to many measures and recommendations being implemented in the meantime. There has also been a revision of the BIFIE law: The supervisory board's control rights have been strengthened. There is more transparency and sparingness. A three-year plan must be submitted. Furthermore, a four-eye principle, the extension of ongoing control and a mandatory presentation of the staff and liquidity plan were introduced. In principle, we need an institution or a body in which our education is constantly controlled, revised, optimised and efficiency improved, but we need to consider exactly how we are doing this and what possibilities we are equipped with it. I think this report shows that it is quite possible to improve things. And we should continue to work on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e16905	Mr Rosenkranz. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e16926	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! There are some Court of Auditors reports on the table dealing with the question of education in Austria, and a little atmospheric. The Court of Auditors, represented by Mr Dr. Moser, has made its factual criticism in the Committee very clear and clear – we can indeed criticise it. Read all points. And as Members of Parliament, we can be happy and happy that the National Council has a corresponding “help organ” – under quotation marks. “Hilfsorgan” sounds as dry – as if it helps us a biterl. In this case, the term ‘help body’ is a little understated, because, in reality, the Court of Auditors, with its minute work, with its well-foundable work, makes the work of our parliamentarians quite clear that we are making improvements in this Republic. The Court of Auditors' report clearly differs from one Sunday's speech in politics. It was therefore absolutely incomprehensible to me that, in response to the criticism of the President of the Court of Auditors, the Federal Minister in the Committee reacted so strongly and even accused the President of acting in the style of an opposition politician. That's where I have to say: As a whole, the Court of Auditors has not deserved to be qualified in such a way as to help Parliament! [[Congratulations with FPÖ, Greens, Team Stronach and NEOS.]] I believe that the Federal Minister has also realized at the meeting that she has shot beyond the target. What happened now? – The previous speakers, who came from the government parties, said: Yes, we have shown this, and well, you can make improvements and proposals, and it will be looked at at the BIFIE too, yes, and at the New Secondary School, it is a bit more expensive than everyone else, but education is so important to us! and the like. It is quite clear that the Court of Auditors has shown. And if you hear now, you want to reduce double-tracks in the administration in the education system, and that means the school administration of 1962, then it is said that in 2008 you have introduced double- and multiple-tracks in addition. This is the Court of Auditors' clear findings. On the reform of schools as a whole, I would remind you of what a Member has once said: The fact that we do not adequately regulate the school administration now and find a compromise will continue to concern us in a year's time! – These few years began in 1919 at the constituent National Assembly of the Republic of Austria, when simply the school system, the administration system of the monarchy was taken over one by one, and in reality we still have it now. So these few years have taken almost 100 years, since 1962 it has been over 50 years of school administration! And what happens? I can only say one thing: What the Court of Auditors has shown here in detail and with figures is a wild growth – of reserves that the BIFIE has accumulated, or of two locations where you have written kilometres of money and where the managing directors, depending on how, could travel between Salzburg and Vienna. The Court of Auditors has shown all of this. And in the end, the result is: In reality, it is the years of socialist education policy in Austria that have now also economically ruined the system in terms of content and, as the discussion of the last days when it came to the Sparverordnung has shown. This is the fastest thing to do.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e16989	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e17011	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! First of all, I would like to thank you very much for the work, for the reports we have been presented here, for the reports that speak a clear language and show the need for action. I am already at the end of thank you, because, Mr Mayer, I apologise for the expression, but it is bad. It is really bad to disqualify the former director of BIFIE, the truly pronounced specialist, who has been used by your party and the ÖVP over the last ten years as an expert, Dr. Günter Haider, in this form. That's not how it is! It can't be that people who are undisputed in their scientific reputation do not enjoy international reputation, only because they suddenly don't fit into the Party's political concept, because they suddenly insist that they can't reverse what Dr. Haider has repeatedly shown, namely the reform stand. So I am really disappointed and disillusioned about how you argued here in this context. But let us stick to this BIFIE report, which has already been referred to, in which overliquidity was mentioned and in which, above all, the political failure has been pointed out – the political, colleague Mayer! Because what is quite clear here is that there have been poor targets – and the targets, please, come from politics – which have led to this situation, namely to a situation where we have overliquidity. We have over €8 million on the high edge, because it has been missed from the sides of politics, since it is clear to say what is desired and what is not. What was obviously not desired were the reports that BIFIE repeatedly came up with in-depth political analysis. So let's just keep it apart, please. Criticism is okay where it is appropriate – and we only have to take the Court of Auditors' report there – but please do not go to the content, because the work of the scientists was excellent. If we were to focus our education policy on this work, we would have results other than the one we are currently doing. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Let me mention at least briefly some other issues, such as personnel planning in the field of the Federal Teachers. Please, here are the constantly moaning signs on the wall: Over the next 10 years, more than half – 55 percent! – the teacher retires. We need new teachers. We know that now, I alone do not see the appropriate measures. That would be the task of politics, please. It would be up to the government to make sure that we really have these teachers in five, ten, 15 years that we need. That is now the Court of Auditors' report. There is no excuse – only the measures are missing! There are also some other interesting data. Let me just take one point out. In the period considered, the part-time rate increased by 6 percent. I have put a question in this context, and the result is clear: It's also an increased stress. We need to think about what's happening at our schools. I think we're missing these thoughts. Overall, thank you again for your work. And my appeal to the government: Don't cheat, don't defamate people afterwards, but draw the corresponding conclusions!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e17080	The next item is Mrs Schenk's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e17103	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! We do not know that much is in the arrogance of education just since yesterday. We've known that for a long time, actually for decades. Last week we also had a special meeting on this subject. The Court of Auditors has noted this once again, and I should also like to thank the Court of Auditors and his team very much for these excellent reports. In summary, the Court of Auditors' criticism can be described in the following words: Double-tracks, inefficiency, high costs, low output. The BIFIE was also addressed by the previous speakers. As we know, the BIFIE has been in place since 2008. There has been an area outsourced by the Ministry of Education and a number of tasks have been assigned to BIFIE. And they didn't get done, bad or just bad. There are a number of criticisms raised by the Court of Auditors that it is too expensive to be too inefficient. Our opinion is also covered by: There's been friendly business. The Court of Auditors also confirms our view that the BIFIE should be dissolved and that the tasks which the BIFIE has until now only partially or inadequately fulfilled should be returned to the Ministry of Education. The New Secondary School was also reviewed. It has been shown that primary schools have mostly been converted into New Secondary Schools and that very few AHS have participated in this school attempt. According to the Court of Auditors, 90 percent of the expenditure has been spent on teaching staff. And the Court of Auditors has also objected and found an imbalance in the remuneration of federal and regional teachers. In summary, you can also say: The Court of Auditors has criticised the uncoordinated realization of the New Middle School. It has already been mentioned how Mrs Minister's replica was in the Court of Auditors Committee. We know that the Court of Auditors is doing good and valuable work as a control and assistance body of the National Council. It is the task of the Court of Auditors to control the government and subordinate undertakings, and that is what it does. He does well to make these reports and to present and present them in the Committee on the Court of Auditors. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] What happened? – Instead of listening to the criticism – constructive criticism is quite good, you can learn something, and it is important to improve a lot in the field of education, we all know that – the Minister of Education has been drawn so much to submit to the Court of Auditors or to the President that he is polemic that he is not objective and that he would act here more subjectively. – I would like to reject this, ladies and gentlemen, at this point. This reminds me of the following: Some time ago, the SPÖ Council spoke, and some of you will know this video, namely the scenes there when the Minister Heinisch-Hosek deprived a young guest speaker of the word and congratulated her on the stage because she allowed herself to critically question the party apparatus. Such a thing, as I mean, is not worthy of a minister. Maybe you can give this to her as well. To act in this way in the field of education and to act in general, ladies and gentlemen, I do not think it is a good idea. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I would also like to take a brief look at the educational people's desire, which has obviously been forgotten by the government parties: 383 820 Austrians have signed this popular desire. What happened? . A separate subcommittee was set up here in the House, which has several times spoken, but the whole is also sent again. – But this is just an example. It is understandable that political intrusion is increasing, increasing when results obtained through the use of direct democratic instruments are pushed here or disappear somewhere in the sinking. That can't be it, ladies and gentlemen. We really need to involve the people, accept the results of popular desires and implement them here in the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e17185	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Strolz is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e17207	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear citizens! I too would like to thank you. I think you as the Court of Auditors have put your finger in three wounds. We are not poor in injuries in the education system, the open spaces are indeed numerous. There is a sea of proposals in these three reports, which we are currently dealing with quite clearly, which could be implemented. I would like to take a few points of view. Firstly, the issue of BIFIE. I think over the BIFIE, more question mark than answers are currently hovering and that there is clearly the minister on the train. I believe that we should quickly come to a BIFIE novelle, because that is also a question of making sense to the people who work there. I also mean that some things are hard to criticise, but there will also be people there who work according to best knowledge and conscience. And, of course, this is not a state, as the BIFIE is currently hanging up: actually without political leadership. We have now obviously withdrawn some of the tasks, and it is not quite clear how much budget is available. Imagine, this is a medium-sized operation and it should also be managed somehow. That means we need a clarification here quickly. I do not want to go into criticism at all now, but I have the urgent desire for the two government parties to take along – you are simply in the lead and in the direction of giving direction – to come quickly to a novel to give answers that will help the education system and also all the employees involved there. So you have to explain: What's back to the resort? What do we leave at BIFIE? What confidence is there on the part of the department, on the part of this House? And how do we change some things so that we also have the confidence that this will be done efficiently and effectively there? Secondly, Staff planning in the field of the Federal Teachers. This is a terrible construction site on and off. We've known that for years, decades. We as the Republic simply do not have good access to the most important profession in this country, namely to the teacher, to the teacher, because we have no real professional understanding either. We cannot imagine that there is something else besides teachers: A teacher is a teacher, is a teacher. These are tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of people. Of course, there will be differentiations. This begins with the assistant staff and is about administrative activities. If the Court of Auditors assumes that we alone have 5 200 teachers from the profession of teaching, teaching and working for administrative activities, and that this is even more expensive for us – it costs us 13 million more than if we use administrative staff – then of course it is a fact where I do not understand why we do not act. I would like to make a clear commitment to this House. I wish we said: The teacher profession is so infinitely important for this country. We all have to deal with representatives of this profession for at least nine years, most of us twelve years or more. We need to think this profession more differentiated. If we say that talents are to flourish in this country, we will need different expressions: linguistic promotion, psychological coaching, there is a lot of differentiation, and we must also picture this in training. What is especially dear to my heart is the autonomous school. We see the autonomous school as a lever to give schools more responsibility and more freedom, and there is a lot of approval for that. We want to do so, I announced this the last time, and we will now be doing so within the framework of the National Initiative: "Develop autonomous school" for over a year. It will be quite, very important that we get a better look at the function of the school management in the next few years. We think we can just pull someone out of the teaching body and say: So, you're the director now! That's absurd in this demanding job! Some do the additional course for school management first on the job while they are in function. Then we actually have it that the curriculum for these courses, for example, for a folk school director, are the same as for an AHS director who leads 150 teachers. These are other requirements, that's a management function! We admit to every employee in Austria that he has a manager, only the teachers we do not admit that, they actually have no leadership. That is why the trade union is so dubious and ambivalent as a managerial replacement for teachers in this country, which has not necessarily done well for the system in recent years and decades. It seems to me like this: For ten years I was a member of the Harmony Music Wald am Arlberg. And – when I stretch the bow so much – of course, every bubble music chapel needs and the Wiener Philharmoniker also needs a conductor, a conductor. Nobody's coming up with the idea: Let's turn a bottle today, and some of the musicians ladies and gentlemen will be the conductor for the next few years. That needs additional qualifications! It was quite clear to us that even for the harmoniemusik Wald am Arlberg the conductor needs additional qualifications. And at the directors, we're doing this sort of thing: Let us look a little more at the party book than at the qualifications! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oberhauser.]] Fortunately, no longer in all the federal states. There are federal states where this is no longer the case. But one thing is clear: You won't become a director in Vienna if you don't leave the Association of Socialist Academics. [[Abg. Oberhauser: Not at all!]] I've got neighbors, and last thing she tells me: [[Abg. Oberhauser: I also have neighbors!]] Today I'm going to a meeting. I ask: Where? – She says: To the Association of Socialist Academics. [[Abg. Oberhauser: I know which ones go to the CV!]] Yeah, you don't give a shit. That's the dump you're doing. They don't give a damn, because if I go five kilometers beyond the Lower Austrian border, then I see that it's of course in Lower Austria exactly the other way around. You won't be there if you don't sage at the ÖAAB. That's bullshit! Stop it at last! – But it is! [[Congratulations with NEOS and Team Stronach.]] [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] There are also wonderful examples. For example, in Vorarlberg it is not that way to say that clearly. In Vorarlberg is no longer decided according to the party book. I don't know every single state so well. [[New calls at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. You're talking stupid!]] You have a bad conscience! Of course, the party book has no place in schools like anywhere else on this continent. We still have state school councils where, when they are sent in the ORF, the party membership is attributed in parentheses! What a pot, Hallelujah! This is an administrative level, because we do not need to hide party membership! Kruzifix again! [[The speaker beats the speaker with the fist on the speaker's desk]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e17319	Mr Klubobmann, we do not curse the speaker's seat!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e17343	Good. – Third point: Funding of the state teachers. The Court of Auditors would point out clearly that the responsibility for financing, expenditure and tasks separates. This is, of course, nowhere useful. But it's always where it happens, sucking, and so on. Here we lose €33 million. We have to bring together responsibility, responsibility, of course. And in a first step, we wish we could bring everything together in federal competence. That's a question of hope, it won't play in this legislative period; but let's see if it goes. There must be some changes among national leaders. In the meantime, I have the feeling that there may also be some contemplation with one of the government parties. The next step, as you know, is particularly important: Let's give it to the schools! Let us give the schools freedom and responsibility! Get away with teacher service law, with a framework collective contract and personnel responsibility for schools. Then we will unravel the hearty forces that we have piled up to tens of thousands of committed young, older, medieval teachers, teachers, hearted directors. To them we will remove the stones and they can finally do what they want, namely the students who put the students at the centre. On that day the blossoming of the talents in this country begins. That day, we'll be thinking back for a long time if he comes someday. I'm looking forward to it today.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e17379	The next item is the report by Mr Kucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e17402	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Strolz, you have just said in a press release: “Our education policy also needs a good feedback culture”. – When you talk out here and skinned the pult with your hand, I have learned what you understand – at least after your speech. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I'm trying to stay real at least right now. The positive thing about today's debate is that this Court of Auditors report has been behind for a while, so today we can say in retrospect and positively that auditing is effective, because it is positive that most of the Court's proposals on the subject of BIFIE have already been implemented. The basic idea of this breakdown was on and on, for itself, nothing negative: We wanted to create the basis for a fact-based education policy. – We have heard some examples today, all of us were in school once, colleague Strolz likes to quote his neighbor. It is also positive that this should be addressed, but we should rather have the educational debates based on facts and, of course, also include international developments, away from party-political scams. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz:... PISA test!]] Mr von der FPÖ. So maybe a trace of less ideology, but also international comparability. I think we're on the right track as SPÖ. But I thank you for your approval. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Can I explain my call for call? The colleague does not seem to have understood him!]] A brief summary of the Court of Auditors' criticisms: Most of these criticisms have already been recorded and implemented in the meantime. Transparency standards have been introduced, quality indicators, locations have already been reduced, the introduction of the four-eye principle – if you can shout a little less, I thank you. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Mr Colleague, what can be the problem?]] Some things have already happened. Because Mr Mayer as the Court of Auditors has also been criticised: Yes, we will continue to look closely at the further development of BIFIE in the future and continue to review the reforms that are necessary. Mr Walser, this is not bad! Putting criticism under the carpet is tedious, and not learning from mistakes is tedious. I thank Mr Mayer for the open and critical words. This, I think, is quite something that government parties do well to do: to question themselves critically and to accept critical suggestions. And because the Court of Auditors has always been criticized: I believe that Mr President-in-Office Moser, too, felt that the discussion in the Committee was quite positive. I think critical discussions are also far more exciting for you and make you more happy; I am convinced of that. [[towards President of the Court of Auditors Moser]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e17478	Ladies and gentlemen! In the last few minutes, during my presidency, I had heard some expressions in speeches, all of which were orderly. This was Col. Walser with the term "shabby", colleague Rädler with his call for intercession with "fathom", but also colleague Strolz with his outbreak at the speaker's desk earlier. I do not give up the issue of calls for orders, but I ask everyone, including the future speakers, to be moderated again. I don't intend to give inflationary orders here, so please pull something together! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Well, so “trapping together” is not worthy of a president either! “Being moderate” is much more beautiful than “trapping together”!]] The next item is the speech by Mr Lettenbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e17518	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! I am trying to follow the President's words in the greatest possible calmness, and this is not always quite easy on the subject I would like to deal with. My previous speaker said: It is not, in principle, a negative thing to do if something is distributed out, if one brings things together, as was the case with BIFIE 2008, where one has brought together a subordinate department – the BIFIE old – and the Centre for Comparative Education Research at the University of Salzburg, but everything that can go wrong in the future. I do not wish to question the BIFIE per se, because I consider the tasks which the BIFIE has to fulfil to be very important for the further development and for the improvement of quality in our education system and I also appreciate the scientific work done by the employees. The Court of Auditors has shown many shortcomings in its report, and many questions that have been raised or still arise remain unanswered. For me it is totally incomprehensible how it can be that for years, for example, the two directors had no managing agreement, why, on the basis of a business plan, grants that were granted were more than doubled within three years and how to explain the disproportionately high increase in the number of employees. – It is all the more terrifying when we see that the budgetary possibilities are no longer going to be that there could have been such shattering excesses and misdevelopments for years here. I know – and the Federal Minister has explained this in the Committee – that many things have been abolished or restructured. One point I would like to address that has so far been too difficult to deal with is the question of the location. I know that a combination of a site is naturally linked to initial investment, but I do think it would be useful to bring the synergies together. However, it does not necessarily have to be the location of Vienna, it can also be another beautiful city in Austria. I would like to thank the Court of Auditors for their report. He was the basis for the urgent and urgent action of the Federal Minister responsible at the time, who was now further implemented by Mrs Heinisch-Hosek. And I also see that the new BIFIE leadership is very, very hard, because the task, as I have said, is a very important and also valuable one. We need, in this regard, Mr Strolz, if he has not said anything right, so we need to redefine the BIFIE. There is a need for a clear objective and a budgetary framework to enable employees to implement the targets, which also need to be clarified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e17558	Next, Mr Magistrate. Hauser in word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e17582	Estimated President! Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, I think it is very positive that emotions are at stake in the debt debate. I do not think this is negative at all, because the children who are young people are our potential for the future. And if we do not really manage to get the money, the €8.1 billion that has been set aside in the 2014 budget for education to reach the children in school, to lead them there, then we lack the essential potential for the future, namely the spiritual potential and thus the competitiveness. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's why I'm glad – I'm really happy about it! – that there is quite a knock on the table here, that emotions are at stake, because otherwise we will not continue in this debate at all. The Court of Auditors' reports, Mr President, are excellent, and the BIFIE report you gave was a devastating report. It is not enough time to repeat these points – I do not need them either; everyone can read these reports. Only in addition: ==References====External links==* Official website March 2014, which stated: “fix is at least that because of the obvious unprofessionality the baby will no longer be our partner” – say: no more partners of the Vienna City School Council – “be at the reading test,” says Bände! If Presidents of the Council of State Schools distance themselves from this institution, then there is a real need for action, and I simply ask that the Court of Auditors' reports be taken seriously, discussed and not here the Court of Auditors' advice on how this happened in the Committee's report, but on the basis of an attempt to bring our school system in the right direction. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] A few words from my point of view about schooling: I have taught 20 years of economic education – I am an economic educator – and do you know what my experiences are? – The problem in education is that the curriculum is completely overcrowded! Wave: 350 pages a year to be accommodated. In school, because of that time no longer remains to practice. The consequence of this is that the practice is shifted to the time outside school, in the afternoon, and there, if the children do not make it, the parents are required. The consequence of this is to exploding after-sales costs! - That's the wrong thing in school. Let us really think consistently about how we bring the money to the children and how, above all, we want to accommodate what we want, namely that children and young people can read, write and calculate – these are cultural knowledge! – to teach children and young people to create these skills. We ask: What do we have to do if we want them to have these skills? You need more time for that. We must move the practice back to school, we must practice with the children, with the young people, and we must not shift it to extra-school education, where many education policy is simply unable to teach their children, and because of this the costs of reparation explode. So there is really an incredibly great potential. You have to discuss the topic of school once in width, according to the motto: What do we want and how can we achieve this goal? – The current education policy is a hush-fush- Education policy, where the school system is being brushed around, in order to say that quite honestly, is partly annihilated, which, what was good, simply does not allow it to continue, and is constantly trying to try new things in school attempts, with the whole not being evaluated and thus continuing the school policy hack in reality. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] - That doesn't bring us any further! We have the task of making good and consistent use of the money we take into our hands for the students and, above all, of ensuring that the money actually arrives with the students and young people, otherwise the spiritual potential and resources for the future will go away, and we will no longer be competitive.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e17658	Next is Mrs Mag. Meinl-Reisinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e17679	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I would like to refer to the Court of Auditors' report on childcare for 0-6 years. I think it is appropriate that we are discussing this today in plenary, since we have not yet discussed the budget, but at least presented it today, and, of course, because we have decided today to increase family support, that is, a partial aspect of family support in Austria, which is about cash benefits. This is now about the question of evaluation or, in my opinion, non-evaluation of the second very, very important aspect of family support in Austria, namely the benefits in kind. [[Abg. Moser: Kindergartenen!]] And I must say that I was very surprised by the clear power of this Court of Auditors report. I find it too destructive, and in fact it is on those days when it is about the budget and the question of which goals one pursues with very, very much money one spends and whether one actually looks at the orientation of the effect, but very concerned that in this area, in this very important follow-up funding... I would also like to say that we welcome this; I think it is very good that there has been this connection funding here. I also think it is very good that there was this free duty kindergarten agreement. But if, for example, you take over € 280 million in total, € 70 million a year, and thus achieve an increase – in this case there are even clear targets, namely the Barcelona targets, which is not always the case in the budget or in the field of budget use, but here there are targets that are specified – which is minimal, if you achieve a minimum increase in the care rate of 2.5 percent, then this is actually not the ideal effect for this large sum that has been taken into your hands. They also say in this report – and I think it is more necessary to point out again and again – that there is a problem, of course, that there are different types of childcare in the federal states, that there are different definitions of childcare facilities, that there are dozens of jobs – I think you have said about Lower Austria that there are over 70 different types of child care in order to manage the area of child care of the zero to six years old in Austria. I believe that this report is once again an important sign of how necessary it would be to give it in federal competence, because if we spend a lot of money – we will deal with it very intensively tomorrow and much more intensively in the coming weeks – I think it is particularly important to look at where the structural weaknesses are. How can I create the money used to achieve the politically defined objectives – and that must be defined; it is also important to define them politically – to be really effective and effective? And in the field of childcare, I see only the possibility of resolving this through a federal competence. I would like to take two more aspects because they also seem very important to me. On the one hand, there has been no qualitative evaluation of this whole measure, although it has been reserved for it. One has reserved €12 million to evaluate these measures qualitatively, but then has not done this qualitative evaluation. I wonder why you don't do that, and come to the conclusion that it's more important to be able to write on posters than to really take a serious look at whether you've achieved necessary and important effects. By the way, the same applies, of course, to the area of the New Secondary School, where it would be important to really see if it has brought the desired effect. The last point, and then I'm done: Child care, infant education; this is for us the first educational institution. It is all the more important that the Federation, when it gives money, use its power vis-à-vis the countries in order to achieve a uniform education framework. Therefore, it is also very significant when the Court of Auditors report states that there has been a very different design and clarification of this educational framework in the different Länder, which is why I come back to the solution that the only sensible administrative form of child care is in federal competence. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e17719	Next is Mrs Mag. Mr Greiner. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e17740	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! One of these reports has been concerned with the German teachers. The subject was the personnel planning of the Federal Teachers between the school years 2008/09 and 2011/12. In 2010/11 Austria employed 36,500 German teachers at approximately 1 100 schools and taught 388,000 pupils. What does the human situation look like in the future? – By 2026, up to 58 percent of German teachers will be transferred to the pension, which corresponds to a post-occupying requirement of more than 19 000 people. Due to the corresponding generation change, a suitable time had come to renew the teaching service law and adapt teacher training. Among other things, this is about reducing the high drop-out rate during studies. What concrete recommendations has the Court of Auditors proposed? – In a number of proposals, the Court of Auditors is addressing a new teacher’s right. What consequences have been drawn? – Many of the recommendations have already been implemented or are in implementation. After long and very difficult negotiations, it was possible to present the new teacher's right. The reform of teaching studies is on track. A web-based e-Recruiting model has already begun, and this is intended to ensure a federal-wide candidate list and a uniform database. In the future, an essential focus will be to relieve teachers of administrative activities, so that they can really take care of the pupils and work in a pedagogical way according to their training. That means they're in the class, they're with the students. These measures are essential steps towards a successful education policy in our future. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e17792	Next speaker: Mrs Jank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e17813	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is always sad when we talk about education, and then I look into the plenary, and then it is always relatively empty. Clearly, educational issues, which concern the education and development of our education, are often lip recognitions. I do not take up my own party on this question either. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Mrs Colleague, this is due to the fact that the Court of Auditors is generally transferred into the evening hours! This has nothing to do with education, this is a problem of the Court of Auditors!]] The Court of Auditors' report shows us once again that there is a lot to do and something in the arsenity. The BIFIE has been discussed several times, and I do not now take the time to talk about the BIFIE, although there is a lot to change and repair there. I am relying on Mrs Minister's statements, which say that this evaluation is currently being carried out and there are consequences. It is much more important to me to see the positive, because emotions are, of course, necessary and important – and especially in the field of education – but they should not lead us into aggression, because then, I believe, the brain is no longer properly activated, and that needs it. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to take up what the Court of Auditors has shown as measures to combat the lack of teachers we are dealing with. I am just coming from a conversation with the highest directors, presidents of the directors of the AHS schools, who feel neglected at all because no one is talking to them. They have a high level of competence. And I find some of the difficulties they have identified to me in the Court of Auditors' report again. These are, for example, the targeted information campaigns, on the one hand to maintain the teaching staff in the active position and on the other, information on the need for teaching staff to recruit trainees. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walser.]] The reduction in the drop-out rate in the course of teaching is very important, so we are going to make it possible for young people to examine for themselves whether they are suitable for the teaching profession, so that the drop-out quota is reduced. The creation of a uniform legal framework for teaching staff participation in the New Secondary School is also necessary. It is necessary to continue to evaluate the New Secondary School. There was a first evaluation, which, in my understanding, is too short from the time of the introduction of the New Secondary School in order to be able to draw final or comprehensive conclusions. But the monitoring of the New Secondary School is a very essential part of which we will have to devote ourselves to the next time – and I also expect the Court of Auditors to do the same – in order to see at the beginning when things are going wrong in order to be able to correct and repair them right at the beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e17869	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Mulder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e17890	Mr President! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, there are also a number of other Court of Auditors reports that are available to us, and I am particularly sorry that a report, which is particularly interested in me as a building speaker, has not been able to be dealt with in committee due to a lack of time. This is the 2013/5 report dealing with the 2008 economic recovery package. In particular, I would like to focus on this economically relevant economic package in relation to construction measures. Now, of course, the time effect is a relatively long one, because that was 2008, it was effective in 2009/2010. The report comes from 2013, and also because of the election we could not discuss it beforehand; it is now available. The BIG's task in this package was to invest €875 million in building buildings. This was mainly within the department, in different areas it has been implemented. The results of this review show that, unlike other EU countries in 2009 and 2010 in our country, no collapse of the construction economy could be found in the form. So this investment offensive was successful. The report also quotes two studies by economic research firms, which could have been generated by 2% less economic growth without the measures taken in 2011. What didn't get so well was the thermal renovation. But this is also the case with the recommendations to examine why this has not been accepted. Better documentation has also been recommended. As a political conclusion, it is obvious to me that these recommendations could only be implemented because the BIG is a company owned by the Republic of Austria, and in another case this would probably not have been as possible. In addition, it is important to invest in construction and housing, and this means, of course, that adequate housing support from economic, economic, environmental and climate considerations needs to be reintroduced and implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e17924	The next item is Mrs Schittenhelm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e17945	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! Yes, the speaker's desk, that's what's been the premiere today. I hope it stays with the premiere, because that would be fatal for this house. According to the Court of Auditors' cross-sectional review, four ministries, two federal states, Styria and Lower Austria, and also two cities, Korneuburg and Leoben, were assessing the implementation of the three in the field of child care. In this context, it is important to note that, in the context of the European Union's economic and social cohesion policy, it is important to ensure that the European Union's economic and monetary union is fully integrated into the European Union's economic and monetary union. Of course, we know very well, ladies and gentlemen, that kindergartens are national matters in execution and also in legislation, whereas in practice kindergartens at public educational institutions, on the other hand, the federal government is responsible. The fact is, and this is also evidenced by the Court of Auditors' report, that the childcare rate for under three years has increased accordingly with the start of the extension of the childcare offer from 2008 to 2011, both in Lower Austria and Styria, but also in Austria. In particular, the introduction of the voluntary kindergarten has increased the care rate of the five-year-olds by 2.5 percent, and today we have a care rate of 96.4 percent. This is actually a full supply. After all, we have also decided together that we have invested in the € 280 million from 2009 to 2013. In Lower Austria we have had the free morning in the kindergarten for many decades – that is of course for us. Free of charge because we see the morning as an educational unit, as an educational time, just as it is in the public school – of course also with Native Speakers, of course also with smaller groups, fewer children in the group, if there are children who have special needs. We also have children of two and a half years of age, i.e. it is regionally tuned to the age of children, the number of children in the groups. The Court of Auditors also reported in detail and in detail on this. We all know that especially toddlers, especially kindergartens, are a necessary social care facility for our little ones. This is where education already begins, not only in the primary school and later on. However, the Court of Auditors also notes a lack of facilities. – Yes, of course, we cannot pick up as quickly as we can, even in the federal states, namely the three-year-olds. There's a need for action. In the same way, the Court of Auditors finds that there is no evidence of use. That is to say, the Court of Auditors considers that it is not clearly defined and not clearly defined in what form it takes. However, the family ministry has already taken this into account. In the future, the Ministry of Family Affairs will review targeted grants for clearly defined measures. Ladies and gentlemen, we know that childcare facilities must meet the needs of parents and regional needs. It is important and right that the communities as kindergarten holders not only have the responsibility, but also perceive it – and that is what the communities do in a very great way.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e17996	The next item is Mr Hell. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e18018	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! In my contribution to the debate, I should like to look again at a 2012 Court of Auditors report on the financing of teachers in the country. The aim of this cross-sectional review was to present and assess the legal basis, the organisation of the establishment plans, the accuracy of the audit. . and the State Teacher-Controlling of the Federal and the Länder of Carinthia, Lower Austria and Salzburg. Ladies and gentlemen, in the 2009/2010 school year – which was the investigation period – the Federal Government's remuneration for teachers in general compulsory schools was around €3.2 billion, which was an increase of around 10 percent at the time of the examination. For the compulsory vocational schools – as the federal government has 50 percent of the costs – around € 150 million has been spent. The diversity of the Austrian school administration results from the fact that the tasks, expenditure and the financing responsibility of the local authorities concerned often differ, in particular in the areas of preparation and approval of the establishment plans, budget planning and budget execution, but also in the service division and the national teacher controlling itself. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, the funding of national teachers to public compulsory schools is currently requiring the integration of a wide range of organizational units of the Federal and the Länder, as this study report shows very clearly. According to the Court of Auditors, the lack of consistency in tasks, expenditure and financing responsibilities causes inefficiency, double-tracking and increased administrative burden. The discussions currently under way in the field of education should be used to consider the outstanding points and recommendations of the Court of Auditors. We have very dedicated teachers in Austria, modern and well-trained. I don't think we should keep talking them bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e18066	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Hanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e18087	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen! On the broad lines of the issues dealt with in the Court of Auditors' reports on education, I took a particular interest in my speech, which concerns the issue of New Secondary School. There is also a Court of Auditors report, which analyses that the costs of each student are significantly higher in the New Secondary School than in comparable systems, lower-level gymnasium. This, of course, right analysis has also led to a very critical comment on the New Secondary School. I would like to invite you to see this subject a little more differentiated. On the one hand, the secondary school is certainly very difficult to compare with the New Secondary School, and on the other hand, I would like to remind you of the basic idea of the New Secondary School, which is that we also lead children, who were formerly in the second, third grade, to a level of education, which also allows them to maybe go to a middle or higher school or to make a vocational training, which also requires a certain level of education. That's very important. As a whole, differentiation is very important to me. I know a lot of teachers who suffer very much from this educational debate, because it is simply forgotten that there are a lot of dedicated teachers are giving, with a lot of commitment, really doing a great job, a great job. And no matter what system we set up in the education system in the future, we always have the teachers in mind – of course, next to the children, they are the most important. We have the teachers to keep in mind, because they are also the carriers of this system, and they deserve much more appreciation than they get daily. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e18124	Next speaker: Mrs Gessl-Ranftl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e18145	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! I am referring to the audit report “Child care for 0-6-year-olds”, which is about the development agreements. The countries of Lower Austria and Styria as well as the two municipalities of Korneuburg and Leoben were reviewed in the period October 2012 to March 2013. The aim of the examination was to compare the federal states and the previously mentioned cities in the implementation of the Article 15a-B-VG-Agreement for the administration of the compulsory childcare year prior to school entry, use and billing of funding, expansion measures and promotions for children's families, administration of the Free Kindergarten, and administration of the legal bases in childcare. Since I represent the district of Leoben here in the High House, I can now take a brief look at the verified city of Leoben. After consultation with the competent authorities, it can be noted that in Leoben no technical, factual or mathematical defects could be addressed. In the final recommendations, there was a recommendation to consider and plan the associated current expenditure before further need-based extension of the childcare offer. Hiezu was told the following: Already in 2005/2006, the following cost calculations were carried out during the first expansion of the childcare facilities and further expansion in 2009/2010 and also planned for further budget planning. The Court of Auditors praised the city of Leoben for having complete data to monitor the obligation to visit and its exceptions. A positive picture could thus be shown for Leoben. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e18178	The next item is Mrs Dr. Moser's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e18200	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors! From school, I could really tell you brand new things, two more hours yesterday. – I don't do it, I stay on the meta level, but I emphasize: We have the responsibility here in this Parliament to provide an optimal framework for optimum teaching situations. And this, ladies and gentlemen, I have the impression that many do not take seriously. For many this is not a matter of heart – for us already. That is why I am very grateful to you, Mr President Moser, for various critical reports on the various details and aspects of teaching. I have learned one of you, and I want to put that right at the beginning, namely: To take note of facts and not to smuggle away by means of a budget. I do not deliberately say ‘to lie’, Mr President Kopf, I deliberately do not say so! [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Ladies and gentlemen, you are cheating about the fact that, regardless of what we decide politically here, you are making the financial effort for teachers' salaries on the basis of the salary progression per year 5,54 percent, Mr President, and you are not taking these budget increases – this simple fact, it is almost natural law, this fact – into account in any way. In so far as the educational budget is concerned, we have a constant erosion instead of an improvement. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is another crack, and I am always learning this in discussions with you, Mr President, in discussions in the Court of Auditors Committee. They always make it clear to us that one thing is essential – both for kindergartens and for folk schools or for secondary schooling –: clear objectives and evaluations. That's the criticism, it wasn't evaluated in kindergarten. In part, the objective was not clarified in the BIFIE, or there were double structures. This costs, and it costs all the more, even if the controlling is missing. This is, as it were, a three-step approach that I can observe in various educational reports provided by the Court of Auditors, namely that this has not been done, for example, by not complying with the impact orientation, that rules are not complied with, that money is not used properly, especially in kindergartens. In fact, even the Federation has provided these €12 million – a colleague has already mentioned it – for evaluations. These were not carried out, the money is shipped. We must fight against this sand policy, because not only every euro is valuable for education, it is also valuable to every euro for the budget. To this end, I have to say that the principles of the Court of Auditors, the expediency, the economy and the task-orientedness, are simply written into the basic Bibles of each Member. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] With this I am now at the compulsory readings of each and every Member, namely the Federal Estimate 2014 and 2015. I have now reserved my speech for the conclusion, because I will not address this tomorrow, but today, in the presence of the President of the Court of Auditors, I would like to say once again that you do not agree with this budget proposal – I say it right now, division 06 – for three very simple reasons. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jarolim.]] The Court of Auditors has already been set aside in the 2013 budget. It has already been withdrawn according to the requirements, because, I can tell you in detail, the Court of Auditors must now contribute more to social benefits and social security costs. It wasn't refounded. So, practically finally, as in the school sector, we have an indirect reduction, but this is €2 million, if not even €3 million in 2013. Instead of countering this in 2014 and 2015, this miscontrol will be reinforced. We cannot take note of this, especially as parliament and parliamentarians, which we urgently depend on the number of employees of the Court of Auditors to be complete. That's where we're at the job plan. At least 40 posts are under-occupied in the Court of Auditors while at the same time increasing the role of the Court of Auditors. Nor can it be any wonder - I mean, Mr President - that it is impossible to do more control with fewer people and less money. I can't! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the FPÖ.]] We have discussed this dilemma and this, so to speak, budgetary and also democratic misdevelopment, about this debacle in the Committee on Vehement. We were promised by the Court of Auditors of SPÖ and ÖVP that they would again speak a serious word to the budget leaders in their governments. Unfortunately, my dear colleagues, the result is bad, and bad is not enough in school. Please go inside! It's not every day of the evening. There is still the discussion of the individual budget chapters, the final decision takes place at the end of May. Go inside! This should actually be done by everyone, because the Court of Auditors is urgently necessary for the correct execution of state finances in Austria. We need this all the more urgently in view of the hypo-deaster. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e18299	All right, Mrs Moser, if you did not say the word, I will not say the word 'order call' either. Then, hopefully, we will agree again. Mr President of the Court of Auditors, Dr Moser, is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e18323	Mr President. High house! Today's agenda contains a total of five reports, 17 audit results, which have been sent to Parliament in recent years. Some of these test reports have been discussed today. I would like to point out that all these reports, which have also emerged in the debate, show that there is a need for reform. In education alone, there is a need for reform from childcare to university. We need action when it comes to ensuring the future capacity of our budget and the economic location as well. This is reflected in the reports on infrastructure and taxation. And they also point out that measures must be taken so that we can actually meet the challenges that Austria has faced towards the EU and to which we have also committed ourselves. The fact is that, in many areas at present, the money does not reach the person concerned. The fact is that the current budget path does not comply with EU requirements either. The fact is that government debt has increased to around 80 percent. We need reforms. The Court of Auditors has therefore pointed out for years that it is not possible without structural reforms. It is not enough to discuss who now has the teachers in his competence, but the discussion is more profound to lead. For this purpose, the Court's reports should be a basis and at the same time provide assistance. That is why you also allow me, since the education of one of our hearts is all of us, to do more to the reports which the Court of Auditors has sent to Parliament and which have been discussed today: Expenditure/disbursements in the global budget education increased by 13.5% between 2009 and 2013, i.e. 5.4 percent higher than the total budget disbursements. At the same time, the number of students has decreased by 3.4 percent over this period. Despite – you can say – above average input, however, the output is below average, as international studies show, and this, although the teacher-student ratio in Austria is above average good. It should be noted that in secondary education, i.e. in those of the 10- to 14-year-olds, 9 pupils come to a teacher in Austria. The OECD average is 13.2. If you look at the secondary level II, that is, those of the 14-19-year-olds, then you see that in Austria there is a teacher 10.1 students, in the OECD section it is 13.9. Obviously – this is what the benefits show – the money does not matter: despite very good, above average resources, despite above average good teacher-student ratio. One of the problems is the division of competence that we have in school, which leads to inefficiencies, double-tracks and conflicts of interest. Last but not least, the OECD has pointed out that due to the structured school system, i.e. through the division of competence, the performance differences of pupils in Austria are about twice as large as in the OECD section. Another reason, of course, is that the Austrian teachers teach little on average in the international comparison. If the education period is 709 hours in upper secondary education in OECD, it is 607 hours in Austria. If you look at secondary level II, the OECD section is 664 hours in class time, in Austria it is 569 hours. Teachers in Austria will teach about one third of their activity, one third of them will need to prepare and follow-up, one third in this case for other activities or administrative activities. Reforms are therefore essential. The 1962 school system is no longer contemporary. In principle, the Constitution provides that schooling is a matter for the Federal Government's competence in principle or general competence. In the case of teacher service law, enforcement is outsourced in the field of the countries. In the field of service and at the same time in the area of authority competence, we have a competence of the countries in the field of legislation, but also in the field of enforcement. This leads to nine national law-enforcement law, bureaucracy, control gaps and inefficiencies. Where this leads is very well demonstrated by the New Secondary School, since one of the core points of the New Middle School is a limited staffing between state teachers and federal teachers. The current differences in competence lead to an equal curriculum, but federal teachers and teachers have different training courses, different training obligations, different salaries, different teaching obligations, different admission conditions. In the latter consequence, this also means that they have a different retirement age, because federal teachers and state teachers have used the hackler scheme to varying degrees. The rules currently in place mean that a federal teacher who teaches at a new secondary school, for example German, will receive shorter education, but more paid for it. Therefore, the restricted use of teachers, a logical consequence, could only be achieved in an approach. The cost of the model test New middle school was 114 million €. Before the evaluation, however, the summative evaluation has been carried out, the secondary school experiment has already been transferred to the regular education system. This has so far led to a review of English education standards at the eighth school level, published at the beginning of 2014, showing that the level of the New Secondary School corresponds to about that of the primary school and is far below that of AHS students. In this case, teacher staff costs at the New Secondary School per student amount to €7,200, at the primary school €6,600, at AHS €4,700. This example shows: We need reforms in the field of competence. School organisational measures require an effective review before they are implemented across the board. Reforms in the field of service rights are essential, especially since total personnel costs in the education sector account for around 92 percent, while the use of teachers in teaching is below-average in international comparison. In this context, we also need a targeted control for an efficient school system in the interest of the students. Unfortunately, this is not present at the moment. The audit of the BIFIE, the Federal Institute for Education Research, Innovation and Development of the Austrian Schools shows that public core tasks have been outsourced – education research, education monitoring, quality development, and also education reporting – but this did not involve adequate and efficient management and planning. The targets were inadequate, the project control not sufficient. The exclusion led to the fact that the financial resources had to be doubled from 2008 to 2010. The staff level already exceeded the planned by one third in 2011, and double structures were built up. The objective of pooling the BIFIE projects has not been achieved, as many other contractors have also been entrusted with core tasks of BIFIE. An efficient education policy therefore requires an evaluation of BIFIE, in particular whether the tasks of BIFIE should not be carried out by the Federal Ministry of Education itself. The areas of education research, education monitoring, quality development are undoubtedly a central public task, which must in any case be controlled centrally and directly. And control also includes sustainable personnel planning. This too has been mentioned in the debate. By 2025, 2026, around 19,700 teachers, i.e. 55 percent of the active population, are to be reintroduced. However, there are no adequate coordination measures to meet the needs. No adequate measures were taken to keep teachers in service longer. As a result, 77.7 percent of the teachers in Upper Austria retired early in 2012, 71.3 percent in Salzburg have used the hacker scheme, which has contributed to a massive increase in the staffing situation. The strained personnel situation is also visible – and this has also been addressed today – that long-term multi-services have increased significantly. Automatic@item:inmenu Text Completion the level of employment of 5 200 full-time teachers is spent on continuing multi-services. 70 percent of teachers provide permanent multiservices, 80 percent more than six units per week, some even double the teaching obligation. School organizational measures, a reduction in the maximum number of students, opening and divisional orders, day-care and the introduction of the New Secondary School also have a major impact on the staffing situation. For the introduction of the New Secondary School alone, 3,000 additional teachers are required, for which other measures require more than 1,500 teachers. However, an evaluation necessary for the determination of effectiveness was not carried out prior to the comprehensive introduction. For executive, administrative, support and technical activities alone, 2 500 teachers were removed from school in 2012/2013, i.e. for activities which could be carried out significantly more favourablely by administrative staff. The strained staff situation also required special contracts to be concluded, with teaching students who had not yet completed the examination of the teaching staff, and for themselves retired teachers to be put into service again. The permanent multi-service allowances of 5,200 full employment equivalents made it clear that an increase in the teaching obligation is reasonable, and at the same time that an increase in the international comparison is also required. Finally, I would like to say that the examination of the funding of the national teachers shows that the adjustment of competence is urgently necessary. Nine national law-enforcement law leads to inefficiencies and double-tracks. This was reflected, among other things, in the preparation and approval of the establishment plans, in the budget planning and in the budget implementation, in the allocation and co-utilisation of the national teacher controlling. The diversity of the school system is also reflected in the range of the relevant school authorities: School authorities in the field of the offices of the state governments, the district administration authorities, the federal school authorities and, at the same time, their own established authorities. The division of competence also means that the person who does not comply with the agreements is rewarded for it at the same time. If a country does not comply with the establishment plan and employs additional teachers, then the federal government will have to bear considerable additional costs. For the federal government pays the salaries and the countries do not refund the actual costs, but the standard costs, which amount to €39 000, the actual costs are on average € 56 000. The difference is €33 million in school year 2009/2010 alone. In other words, it would be necessary to bring together the responsibility for tasks, expenditure and financing accordingly. This is certainly not enough for the current reforms. The Federal Framework Act for the introduction of the new training of pedagogists is gradually taking place until 1. October 2019 in force, the new service law mandatory until the school year 2019/2020. Up until then, 6 000 new teachers have to be recruited. That is, the current state of inequality between federal teachers and national teachers will continue over the next 30 years. The increase in the teacher's service obligation to 22 hours per week is made in such a way that two hours are already taken into account for class board activities and advisory activities. This means that an increase in teaching time at an international average level is not carried out. At the same time, records of preparation and follow-up work will be carried out. not defined for other activities. The perceptibility of the provision of services is therefore difficult. An annual standard of work is missing. The non-implementation – which was also addressed – of evaluations, namely at the New Secondary School, is an example of taking the opportunity to use the results to control them accordingly. From the point of view of the Court of Auditors, we therefore urgently need structural reforms to lead the future of education in international comparison, where the use of resources is above average, towards competitiveness and a future chance. We need reforms to improve the use of the scarcer resources in the future. The need arises from the fact that in the years 2009 to 2013 the increase in education amounted to an average of 3.17 percent each year. In the future, with the Financial Framework Act presented today, the increase will be 0.7 percent for the years 2014 to 2018. If we do not implement the structural reforms, then it is precisely because we feed the structures and at the same time forget about the children. I do not think that should be the case. This would also be necessary in the area of childcare, where, for example, € 280 million was spent in the past in order to introduce the free kindergarten requirement. In the last episode, 2 350 five-year-olds were brought to childcare. It would be appropriate to evaluate the extent to which this money has actually developed effectiveness and has also been targeted at the same time. One important problem is that the necessary, planned evaluations – mid-term evaluation, evaluation of day mother care, evaluation of the extent to which the free kindergarten requirement improved children's opportunities – were not carried out. If we do not carry out these assessments in the future, then the money will simmer as in the past where it does not belong, namely in the structures, and we will no longer have it for those concerned. For this reason, I would like to ask you – my remarks were a little longer today – the fact that 17 audit results are on the agenda to benefit from the fact that the reforms are finally being taken to give Austria a chance for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e18502	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 20: Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of this report III-13 of the supplements. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 21. Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of this report III-18 of the supplements. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is unanimous and therefore adopted. Vote on agenda item 22: Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of this report III-8 of the supplements. Whoever is for this, please give a sign. – This is also unanimously adopted. Vote on agenda item 23: Request by the Committee of the Regions to take note of this report III-29 of the supplements. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is, in turn, unanimously accepted. [[19:57:44]] 24. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors’ report Series Bund 2014/2 (III-41/125 D.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e18593	We're getting to the 24th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Preiner is the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e18620	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen. The 2011 financial report was jointly prepared by the EU Court of Auditors and the national Court of Auditors. In principle, I consider this cooperation to be positive. In 2011, Austria received €1.87 billion of funding from the EU. At the same time, this is by 3 percent more than 2010. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Furthermore, €1.48 billion went directly to the Federal Budget in 2011, the remaining amount to €1.87 billion went directly to the promoters. 70 percent of the funding that came to Austria in 2011 could be allocated directly to agriculture. In the field of agricultural and structural support, €1.45 billion went to the Austrian national budget. Of these, 97 percent went directly to the federal states. I mention here that leading Lower Austria with 32 percent, Upper Austria and then Styria benefited mainly from it. In other words, the federal states also benefited Austria greatly from its EU membership in 2011. The new EU 2020 strategy has already been launched in 2010. Here I can mention that we have already exceeded the Europe 2020 target with an employment rate of 75.2 percent in the 20- to 64-year-olds. However, the Court of Auditors report also shows relevant criticisms and clear shortcomings, for example in the area of alpine areas, and also assesses the monitoring and control system in agriculture as being only conditional. I think that simplification of funding arrangements, red tape reduction and more efficient control systems will create more transparency. These are also the challenges for the future. I am very grateful to the experts of the Court of Auditors for preparing this financial report 2011.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e18661	Next speaker: Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e18682	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Preiner already has Summary: This EU financial report for 2011 gives an overview of payments to the EU and the return on the – at that time – 27 EU countries. Austria has paid €2.69 billion, and €1.88 billion has flown back. We are 9th in the field of net payers. The eleven net payers are listed by Germany, France and Italy. There are 16 net recipients, including Poland and Spain. It is, of course, mainly reinvested in structurally weak countries. In Austria, about one third of the funds have been transferred to Lower Austria, 19 percent to Upper Austria, 13 percent to Styria. The final lights are Vorarlberg with 2 percent and Vienna with only 1 percent. Overall, as my previous speaker has already said, 70 percent of the funds have been spent on agriculture, with a view to preserving the management and natural resources. Of course, it is also a matter of promoting rural development and attraction. Of course, valuable resources are invested in jobs, but of course also in the protection of the environment and steep areas. Every euro, every project, every investment measure is important, and I believe that in the future there are still additional possibilities for more funds to be collected in Brussels. We are currently taking a little too little money; we have increased our net grant over the last few years. A total of six audits were carried out by the Court of Auditors together with the EU Court of Auditors between 2011 and 2012. It has been a question of questioning the measures for monitoring and controlling, and the Court of Auditors has already found that there is a great need for improvement and that there is a need for a new system in particular for the alpine areas we are currently discussing intensively. There is a clear mandate from this EU financial report: How can we reduce our net pay position by means of additional projects and programmes and collect more funds? It is therefore important that we have a European overview and that we know where we stand and where we need to set up our initiatives in the future to pick up EU funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e18730	Next speaker: Mr Zanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e18752	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! It is nice and good to quote the figures from the EU financial report, but I think there are a few things that need to be a little more intensive. Finally, it is always about developing something further. The Court of Auditors has found that some 5 per cent of all payments made by the EU – and this amounts to around €140 billion that are processed in payments – are wrong, so to speak, payments that should not have been made because they violate any rules. And you have to deal with why. These mistakes were found, but they did not say what we were doing about them. In my opinion, this is far too little, and it is all the more appropriate to take action and take steps to reduce this percentage by – we think – 5 percent and to fight payments almost flawlessly at some point. It is also very nice, Mr Preiner, if the return flows from the EU have increased by 3 per cent, but if the net balance of Austria from 2010 to 2011 increases by 19 per cent, I would like to forget the 3 per cent, which I do not need either. In concrete terms, net payments increased from € 676 million in 2010 to € 805 million in 2011. That's a provocative sum! Let's see how things continue in the next few years. The room up seems to be infinite. In any case, we will look very critically at how this develops. Last point: If you look more closely at these backflows of €1.876 billion, you can see that around a quarter of them are payments that go directly to the beneficiaries. This is tax money that comes back – though through detours – and there is no way to control whether these funds are properly paid out and to whom they go. We don't know anything. We'll get in the dark. This is a control-free area – Mr President Moser, you have referred to it in the Committee. I think that we must be able to control each of the taxpayers, and I therefore have tabled the following motion for a resolution on this point: The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Government is invited to forward to the National Council a government template providing that it is also possible for the Court of Auditors to examine the use of EU funds paid directly to beneficiaries.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e18809	The application is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e18866	Next speaker: Mrs Schenk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e18888	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speakers have already mentioned a lot about the EU financial report. I would therefore like to take my speech on the occasion to point out some of the money waste actions that are unfortunately taking place in the EU – it disappears and always simmers money in an incomprehensible way somewhere – and I would like to make two specific examples: First: The EU Commission's Directorate-General for Justice spent €718 620 in 2010 on the design of its website. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is a sum which has to be mentioned here and which also shows exemplaryly how EU money is handled with tax money. Secondly, I would like to remind you of the costs that arise from one seat of the European Parliament twelve times a year through the transfer and transfer of EU delegates from one seat of the European Parliament to another, because Members and their employees are travelling from one seat in Brussels to another seat in Strasbourg, €200 million is to be paid. This, ladies and gentlemen, would be to discuss and clarify right now, in the run-up to the EU election which is taking place at the end of May, and to address and deal with the future European Parliamentarians in a further way! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] It has already been mentioned: According to the EU financial report, Austria received almost €1.9 billion from EU funds. Of this, €1.4 billion went directly to Austria via the federal budget, and € 395 million went to the beneficiaries without an examination, were paid directly to these beneficiaries. Mr Zanger has already referred to it, and it has also stated in the Committee's President-in-Office Moser that these €395 million have not been examined so much in the non-examination area. We support the request made earlier by Mr Zanger, because I think it is useful and correct that the Court of Auditors should have further competence, that the examination should be extended and that he can also examine these funds, because they are taxpayers, ladies and gentlemen. However, it must also be ensured that the Court of Auditors has a budget that is appropriate if it is to be agreed to extend the audit competence accordingly. The Court of Auditors must not be threatened in budgetary terms, as happened in the last budgets. The budgetary negotiations are now under way, and I too, as the chairman of the Committee on Budgets, Dr. Moser, said earlier, can call on you to consider these items when making the budget, and also to ask that the letter of the President of the Court of Auditors, which he sent to you in March of this year regarding the employers' contributions which he himself has to pay and which burden the budget, be returned to you. This will be taken seriously and will be done so that the Court of Auditors can be equipped with appropriate resources in order to continue to carry out its core tasks well. It must be ensured that the Court of Auditors can fulfil the additional tasks which we have assigned to it by the National Council, and that the use of the tax money is also controlled. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The most important thing is: more control, more transparency, less bureaucracy – not only here in the House, but also in the EU Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e18955	Mr Hable has now come to speak. - Please. [[Call the SPÖ:Hable!]] – Habl e. – Well, the colleague has now miscorrected me. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Deputies Kogler and Mlinar:Hable!]] With the Burgenlands you can do it! - Excuse me, Mr Hable. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e19009	Mr President. High house! Estimated citizens in the gallery and in front of the screens! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Thank you very much for the EU financial report. Let me speak on a point which we have not yet done today, but which is also the subject of the EU financial report, namely the budgetary coordination of the European Union: Fiscal Pack, Six Pack, Two Pack in the Future. We have discussed whether that is enough for the future. We have also addressed the question of control architecture, also in connection with the role of the Court of Auditors, the national audit courts as a whole in the European Union. One thing you can certainly find out: Budgetary co-ordination by the European Union is healthy for the budgets, including the budget of Austria. It must be borne in mind that the Federal Procurement Act 2006 is based on an EU directive – a law that has provided transparency in public expenditure. We must bear in mind that Eurostat has recently intensified the calculation of public debt and that it is no longer possible to disburse itself, particularly at national and local level. This increases the official figures for the debt of Austria, where the debt has always been there. Of course, we also need to see that the Fiscal Framework Directive – a measure from the Six Pack – should also ensure that we have a modern, coherent accounting system. Well, at least at the federal level, this is already in the approach, but it is still missing in the countries and communities. That means – and that is what we have discussed – that is Austria is sumptuous. This coherent, modern accounting system is still lacking in the countries and communities. Of course, the Finance Minister – and we have already discussed this here in the National Council – would have the opportunity to prescribe this under § 16 Financial Constitutional Law. He doesn't, he doesn't want to, he doesn't manage to resist the resistance of the national leaders. – Well, this is not the way, but even if Austria is sparse now, one will not be able to vote against the implementation of this Fiscal Framework Directive in the long run. So that's gonna come. All in all, then, a very healthy effect must be observed. One can be glad that Austria is a member of the European Union. I cannot imagine what it would be like to do about the budget if it were not for this fiscal policy, this budgetary coordination and discipline by the European Union. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e19054	Thank you very much, Dr. Hable. Next speaker: Mr. Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e19079	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! The EU financial report gives a very good overview of the development of payments to the EU and the use of EU funds, as a result of the annual edition. In the 2011 report, I see very positively the Court of Auditors' finding that EU funds for rural development have already been used to a great extent. From the €2.9 billion allocated to Austria by 2011 to Austria, €2.5 billion had already flown back by the end of 2010. As the unexploited funds can be retrieved in the following years, the Court of Auditors has found that Austria can achieve a hundred percent increase in rural resources – I believe that a very positive development for rural areas. Dear Ladies and gentlemen, it has already been found that Austria has paid around €2.69 billion to the EU in 2011 and has flown back some 1.88 billion. That means a net amount of € 812.9 million is at beech. Austria is thus to be found by the eleven net payers in the ninth place. Ladies and gentlemen, Austria is a net payer and pays more in the common pot than it comes out of superficial consideration. 20 years after the conclusion of the accession negotiations, it is appropriate to look at the benefits of the EU for Austria to the Austrian population. Before: Many experts in Austria and abroad see Austria as a great profiter of EU accession. A few facts about this: In addition, some 17 000 jobs can be created annually in Austria. In total, these are already 375 000 new jobs. A plus of the gross domestic product of almost €57 billion so far stands at beech. Income levels are 21 percent higher than without EU accession. We are also aware and clear: Unemployment has remained a low level of thanks to God in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, the EU accession has had a very positive impact on Austria. He has had a very positive impact on our economic performance and thus on our standard of living. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e19122	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Lettenbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e19143	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. High house! We have already heard several times that Austria is net payer and that we are of the 11 net payers to 9. Lie down. Of course, the Federal Republic of Germany is The European Union has always tried to keep the transfer payments to the European Union as low as possible, but also the return flows. This is a point of reference of the Court of Auditors that they should, of course, be increased. However, we are committed to this net payer existence in Austria, because we are, of course, supporting other structurally weak countries and regions that need this support so that they can reach a standard of living which is similar to the average in the European Union. We also know that the European Union has its weaknesses. It's not all around and the way we imagine it. But here I want to set a stage for the European idea, for the European Union, and it should be a unique peace project for all six parliamentary groups. For almost 70 years now, we have been living in a region where there are no wars, in which national states do not get one another, and that is actually the biggest achievement of this European Union. Also economic, even for the workplace, accession to the European Union has become a success story. We have been able to significantly increase the number of business start-ups. There were more than 300 000 new jobs for Austrians. Our exports have increased significantly, especially in European Union countries. Our export rate, i.e. exports of goods and services as measured by GDP, is now 57 percent. Our economy has also grown stronger than the average in the euro area. Also with the fairy tale that since the introduction of the euro everything has become more expensive, I want to clean up. In recent years, average inflation, the inflation rate in Austria was only 1.9 percent. This is much less than at the time of schilling. Finally, I can call on all Austrians, who at this hour in front of the TV, in front of the laptop, in front of the PC to follow this transmission, to do so on 25 May. May go to the election and support the positive forces in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e19186	The last speaker in this debate is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e19207	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! – Yes, the positive votes in the Austrian country! Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you must have heard the budget speech today: Austria is the country of the mountains. We once had a finance minister – with whom we have fought conflicts together – who has always resorted to those from the advertising industry in his sayings. The bacon must have gone! was one of them. - Yes, with the others! I'll leave you alone with this, but... The Karl-Heinz Grasser has not managed to get away with the German anthem. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Podgorschek.]] He didn't succeed. Austria, however, is not only the land of the mountains. Austria is also the country of those institutions, where at least one is too much. These institutions also start with the letter B. – Think now! I must give my preliminary opinion on the other points of this Court of Auditors report. First of all, thanks to the Court of Auditors – as was often said – for the really good reports. As far as cooperation with the institutions of the Union is concerned, we also want to do more. Do more than that: The Court of Auditors is doing more and more, out of its own drive, but also because we, as legislators, are increasingly imposing on it. And every time the budget debate comes – we will hear it even more often – when it comes to it, the legislator is – and the Court of Auditors is, as usual, always in such a great way, among other things an institution of the National Council; you must always listen to it, Mr President, the National Council is too cowardly and gives up to the government, that government that makes cuts at the Court of Auditors which it is supposed to be controlled by. I think this is a real political abuse. Of course, the National Council is formally responsible for the budget, but we know that we essentially do what comes from the ministry. And precisely the conflicts with the ministries or with the Minister of Finance – at the time – they were violent, and one could not resist the impression that this is simply about classical power-political retortion measures. I find this sad in a republic, when those who are to be controlled, i.e. the rulers, stand around at the Court of Auditors and essentially sniff around – incompetent as always. We don't want to let that happen. This will also play a special role in the debate in the Committee and in the plenary when the chapters of the Supreme institutions come. Be sure that there is a sufficient number of Members here – and there are more and more – who have an eye on it. And we will at least try to stop this negative development, which it is at the end of the day, and perhaps there or there to introduce a trend change – as with the committee of inquiry, it cannot be stopped either, and on other issues where, thanks to God, the opposition is more and more often enforced, for with this government we would no longer leap far, at least not above the mountains described by the Minister of Finance. Now to these mountains. Austria is not only a country of the mountains, but also a country of banks. And we have at least one bank too much. At least we bought a bank back too much. And who's to blame for that? - That'll be clear. [[I should like to congratulate the Greens and Liberals, as well as the Members of the NEOS.]] Now I would like to say something about this report: It is once again an art of members of the government to abandon the liability of the country of Carinthia for Hypo Alpe Adria International AG. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] – Yes, this is in the Court of Auditors’ report. They're back in between and they don't even know what we're negotiating. But that's what you've been doing for a long time. So now we have the following wonderful process: The liabilities of the country of Carinthia after this glorious buyback are paid by the federal government, with the liability fees! We must now present this as a representative responsible for the Federal budget: We pay liability fees from the Federal Budget to the country of Carinthia, which can never exercise these liabilities! - Absurd! If we are already talking about repayment mechanisms here – and I believe that there is also the head of state in Kaiser’s office – then let us leave this so-called future fund, which is fed out of things of the past, as we know. But there he is, I believe, with insight – and rightly so – that we can make a return transfer here, and there he is also ready for negotiation, because this is the biggest “perversum” of the Austrian financial flows, that we must always pay the Carinthians a liability fee for the liability for which we must in the end – not according to our reading, but, unfortunately, after reading of Black again, of Red. On this occasion, one last thing, because we are talking about the budget: If we – and history goes by autumn, because you obviously bring the law to Bad Bank, I say so vulgarly, here not even here; yes, but so long the match is open – so we would – and for that we will start fighting again – enter into the insolvency solution with a debt cut of only half-half against those unprotected creditors who have put in the whole mess with us – and not only Mr. Haider, but they have also financed a Mafia bank and collected interest and interest rate for which taxpayers are now to pay, together with 100 percent of the capital, because these liabilities are supposed to be so compelling; are they not! – then that's what it was: 6 billion for taxpayers! This debate must be conducted! Then we'll talk about downfalls, not mountains. But this has been reserved for your convening Minister of Finance: Quickly another green quarter of an hour for the gallery talking about insolvency, a small rapid four-hour hour, and then, when it comes to bending away, out on the side playing field headlights and giving such speeches that you then sell as a budget speech. There will be a lot to discuss tomorrow.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e19304	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Auditors to take note of this report III-41 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Zanger, fellow Members, concerning the examination of EU funding paid directly to beneficiaries. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. [[20:27:23]] 25. Point Report by the Committee on Equal Opportunities on amendment 298/A(E) by Mr Mag. Gisela Wurm, Dorothea Schittenhelm, colleagues and colleagues on measures against violence against women (122 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e19366	We reach the 25th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Worm. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e19393	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If we are discussing today the motion for a resolution tabled by me and my colleague, Mr Schittenhelm, the following was the occasion: On the occasion of the International Women's Day in March this year, an EU study was presented by the Fundamental Rights Agency, which was the extensive study that the EU has ever commissioned. There have been 42 000 detailed surveys carried out, and the result of this survey was then published and presented here in Vienna. The result was more than terrifying: In the EU, every third woman will be victims of violence in various forms, whether it be physical or sexual violence, whether it be violence in the form of cybercrime - a new phenomenon that always occurs -, stalking and, and, So women are always victims of physical, sexual and otherwise violence. For those who want to take a closer look at this study: Here is a short form where you can read the results very well. And it is also a remarkable result in this context that in the Nordic countries, for example, a lot of violence is reported, so that many women – above all women – also feel it is violence when they suffer violence. That's what I'm saying. In this context, we, Mr Schittenhelm, and I, have tabled this motion for a resolution to the Committee on Equal Opportunities, and this is a matter of taking account of the results of this study. And this study tells us that the ads are not yet as we wish, so the desperation as it would wish is not yet given accordingly. That is, the women go to the doctor's office and say they've become victims. But those institutions we have hoped to see as already known, i.e. women's homes, non-violence facilities, are still under-utilised by women. Therefore, it is necessary for women to be alertly informed that they are being sensitised so that they can also find the way to the relief facilities. I am really glad that we have put this initiative, even though we in the committee – unfortunately, I have to say – have more or less agreed to this right's opposition because resolutions to our own government should not be State of the Art. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mlinar.]] – You were the exception, Mrs Mlinar, and we discussed this in committee. I believe that it is necessary for us to put in place measures here now to call on the Federal Government to launch information campaigns so that this phenomenon, which continues to be so massively violent against women and girls, is kept as far as possible.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e19447	Next speaker: Mrs Schittenhelm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e19469	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Unfortunately, violence against women is a reality, not only in other countries, where women are very often victims and victims, but also in Austria. Throughout all social strata, women are faced with violence. In Austria, every fifth woman is affected by physical or sexual violence, and unfortunately God needs to strengthen the institutions – like women’s houses – to protect women. Of course, we are all aware of this. Last year alone, ladies and gentlemen, there have been 4 600 bans and directions, in Vienna alone 3 200 times. Ladies and gentlemen, we know that violence against women has many faces: sexual and psychological violence, but also, among them, forced marriage, trafficking in women or genital mutilation, which has already been addressed today. Physical abuses include verbal attacks or even psychoterrorism, as is practiced during stalking or mumbling. Mobbing, which is often underestimated, is a stressful situation for women and men at work and has devastating consequences for those affected, as we know. This can lead to psychological and physical destruction of a person. Unfortunately, I had to experience this myself in the circle of acquaintances. That is why it is necessary to set clear objectives – and Mrs Wurm has already mentioned them – to improve access to violence centres through increased low-level information provision. But we also need trainings and seminars and increased information and awareness work by physicians – they are where women first go – so that they can recognize the situation in which the woman is in. But above all, we also need the awareness of the citizens. We need to raise this awareness, even the media, so that violence against women is not tolerated. Violence against women is not a cavalier crime! Violence against women must not only be recognized as a social problem, but also made visible and publicly denounced. Therefore, the merger of the anti-violence centres into a umbrella association across the federal states is a model that is considered to be a model throughout Europe and internationally, namely in terms of victim protection and victim support. Since the establishment of the so-called process accompaniment, there have been 3 483 women who have turned to this place in 2010 and in 2013 it was already 6,866 who have used this help to receive appropriate mental care. The networking of criminal police, court, prosecutor's office and victim protection facilities and their gathering at a round table are another area in which the Minister of Women can also play a more active role in order not only to raise awareness and understanding for these victims, but also to get appropriate support. Dear ladies and gentlemen! We all know very well, violence leaves clear traces for a whole life, physical and emotional. And the children experience this, suffer with it. It is therefore all to do to enable women to live nonviolent lives.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e19517	Next speaker: Mrs Gartelgruber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e19538	Mr President. Minister! If we are discussing this request today by Mrs Worm and Mr Schittenhelm, I must of course express my astonishment at the fact that this request is continuing the approaches of the government programme. However, it is also necessary to ask whether this is not a kind of mistrust against its own Minister of Women, who apparently does not implement the government programme. But perhaps, Mrs. Minister, you have so much to do with the field of education in recent times that you can no longer take care of women's agendas properly in Austria. This impression can certainly be won in the light of this request. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The victims of violence must also be very surprised when representatives of the two government parties call on their own government to increase and improve access to anti-violence facilities in a low level of information provision. At the same time, however, it must be read that in Austria 78 places were missing from women's houses, 50 women had to be rejected in Salzburg in the first quarter of the year and no place was found. Newly opened houses are full immediately, and existing women's houses have to worry about funding each year. This should be done, and all resources must be pooled there. Nevertheless, we shall be voting in favour of this proposal, as any measure against violence must be supported. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Violence in any form must be refused, and it is all to be done to help the victims. The issue is not too impoverished – and I would like to insist that not all men become violent. This impression must not arise during this discussion. Mrs Wurm has already mentioned the European study today, and I would like to take a brief look at it, because it is really a devastating picture. 22 percent of the respondents reported being victims of sexual violence, 12 percent of them under 15 years of age. In other words, violence begins already during childhood and the greatest dangers lurk in its own four walls. There is a large number of measures that need to be taken, but here the Federal Government in Austria is conspicuous. It is also worrying for me to see the rise in stalking and harassment in the social networks. Here it is necessary to protect all those who feel depressed, harassed or tormented in this way. On this issue, it is also necessary not only to refer to women, because this problem concerns both sexes.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e19593	Mrs Magnette has now come to speak. Aslan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e19614	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Other studies also show that 20 to 25 percent of all women in the EU will be victims of physical violence at least once in their lives. In this study, Austria is statistically one of the “safe” countries in terms of the partner’s physical or sexual violence. If we want to interpret this study carefully, we see a problem: The Scandinavian countries have a higher percentage than Austria in this study. However, it should not be deduced that the Scandinavian women are more affected by violence, but that Scandinavian women are paying more ads than the Austrian women. According to this study, as my colleague has already mentioned, it is also true that in Austria only every fifth woman knows where she finds help after an experience of violence. This number is alarming and simply shows the need to make relief facilities better known what has been neglected so far. It is important that all levels of justice, family environment, medicine, protection of the child, male and culprit work are set up at all levels. Of course, we welcome this proposal, but something has to be done. A parliamentary request from my colleague, Judith Schwentner, during the last term of government, has shown that in 2012, the Ministry of the Interior did not grant funding to institutions offering violence prevention such as anti-violence training. Since Mr Gartelgruber also spoke of support for women's houses, I would like to mention briefly that it is already a bit incomprehensible for me that you do not agree to the establishment of women's houses in Lower Austria and then today talk about women's housing support. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gartelgruber.]] It's a little contradictory. [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Amstetten!]] It was in Amstetten, exactly. Finally, I would like to say that it is absurd for the government parties to make themselves a request, with measures already contained in the Coalition Agreement. I'm sorry, but we don't want to waste time on requests that only repeat coalition negotiations! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gisela Worm.]] I hope that implementation will be implemented, and I wish you every success. And don't forget that success has three sockets: t, u, n – do! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e19672	The next item is the speech by Mrs Schenk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e19699	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Before: We will vote in favour of this request because it is of course worthy of support and support. However, I do not want to hide and apply my criticism here, because I believe that this request by the government groups is almost an alibis proposal. This application contains claims set out in the Government Convention. This request calls on the Minister to implement what is actually involved. And this request comes from the government groups to show that they are doing something too, because otherwise not much is coming. If we look at the final agenda of the Committee on Equal Opportunities, we see that it consisted of six points: a debate, a request from the government parties mentioned above and four opposition requests. We discussed it in detail, and three of these opposition requests – two of my colleague, Mr Gartelgruber; one of them was rejected – were postponed, with the argument that this was in any case under discussion, that measures should be taken anyway, et cetera, et cetera. Now we do the reverse: We have very well agreed to the request of the government parties, although this is a request that redrafts what is in the government programme anyway. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gisela Worm.]] However, you have rejected all other opposition requests with dubious arguments, ladies and gentlemen. We must also address this clearly so that people can know how to deal with opposition parties' requests in committee. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] However, I would not only like to focus on violence and how to take action – this is also enshrined in this proposal, which is also enshrined in the government programme – but I also want to highlight it and perhaps we should also deal with the prevention of violence. How does violence come about? There are different types of violence. I would like to address the issue of common care. Often children are the gameball between men and Woman, often because of this, also because the common care does not work as she should work, leads to problems, which may result in violence. It is therefore appropriate to take action to prevent and prevent violence. Furthermore, important factors are social pressure, employment, income. Self-employment and independence must be strengthened. We need to create framework conditions to ensure that there is enough jobs in order to deal with income, to be able to live women self-determined and to have their own income, because the more independent they are, the more often they become victims of violence, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[New call of the abg. Gisela Worm.]] It is commendable – and I should like to point out that we talked about it in the last committee – that you are making money available for perpetrators' programmes, that you are also involved in the whole issue of violence and are taking a step in the right direction. There's still a lot to do, that's true, but I hope we're on a good path, get on a good path and find the best solutions here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e19774	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Dr. Mlinar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e19796	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Spoštovane lady in gospodje! – Honey, I'm sorry, it will never happen again, I love you! – This sentence is probably the most violent couple relationship. [[Call the ÖVP: How do you know?]] Many affected people want to believe that this sentence is true, and they hope that it was a one-time thing, a last resort – too rarely, but this hope is fulfilled. We know from a recent study by the European Fundamental Rights Agency on violence against women, which has already been quoted, that the figures are still frightening. That is also Austria, and that is our task. Austria is exemplary in European comparison with regard to legal protection against partnership violence, but there are still enough open construction sites. The request of Mr Worm, Mr Schittenhelm and other Members is a welcome step. We consider this de facto to be living parliamentaryism, because we also do not consider the representatives of the government parties to be an extended workbench of the government. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gartelgruber.]] That's why it's worth supporting. In our opinion, the request has only one manko: He's too general. I ask you: Why so obtrusive? Why is there no more concrete action in this proposal? It has long been known what is still missing and where we have to start, not only where violence has already happened. There is a need for measures to prevent violence, measures for people with migration backgrounds, language barriers or disabilities, and, above all, for an extension of rural offers. We know that, and it will be time for us to start implementing this knowledge. This also concerns the following item on the agenda, the request for a new statistics on Gender Pay Gap. Let us finally stop talking about how big or small the inequality of men and women in Austria is! And let's stop hoping it'll get better by itself! Let us finally start by taking measures against it. Ladies and gentlemen! Effective measures are not given, rather they cost money, and this money is for us an investment in the dignity and security of citizens. And as so many of those concerned hope in vain for an end to violence, we are in this case looking for in vain resources in the present draft budget. - Hvala lepa.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e19835	The next speaker was Mr Hell. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e19867	Mr. President-in-Office of the Council! Mrs. Federal Minister! In Austria, there is an important and dense network with the Anti-Violence Act and the anti-violence institutions, so that violence-affected women and children can be helped quickly. Violence affects everyone. It is therefore necessary to take preventive action to protect in particular women and children from violence and violence. In recent years, a preventive policy has been pursued under the title of anti-violence and victim protection, involving many organisations in Austria, which has a role to play in Europe. This includes the networking of all actors and the exchange of experience between the authorities. Nevertheless, the EU study already addressed today shows that further action is necessary. Violence against women, children, but also men is and remains a shame to our society. In addition to strict laws, information and consultation for those affected are essential objectives that need our full support. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address briefly a subject that is very important to me personally: violence against children and young people. Violence against children and adolescents is almost always publicly addressed only when a terrible incident of child abuse or family violence becomes public. But that's too late. That is why I think it is essential to deal with the issue of violence in our schools in greater detail. All actors – from the teachers to the teachers and parents to the students – must know how violence begins as it is, how one can resist it and, above all, how to get protection and help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e19897	Next speaker: Mrs Diesner-Wais. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e19919	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, I would like to point out that motions for resolutions are not the sole right of the opposition parties, important issues are simply dealt with. The government is an independent body, and Parliament is also an independent body. That is why we can also discuss independently. [[Abg. Musiol: implemented!]] [[Abg. Aslan: Apply!]] [[call to the FPÖ.]] We have already heard that the outcome of the European study on fundamental rights is really terrifying; it shows that every third woman in the European area is affected by mental or sexual violence – and that happens, although there are many equality measures. I say that any form of violence must be rejected and every victim affected by violence is too much! Austria is cutting in Comparison of the 28 EU countries is very positive, as we have long focused on strengthening human rights and combating violence, but also on national cooperation with our neighbouring countries. We have passed anti-violence laws and victim protection laws on the right to psychosocial and legal processing. [[call to the FPÖ]] In 2013, 6 860 people were employed. We have managed that the statements can be made in a protected atmosphere and that there is an extension of the limitation periods. We have also achieved that the victims will be informed if the perpetrators are released from the penalty, and that workers of social assistance or youth welfare will be granted special information from the criminal register in the case of offenders. We have instruments such as directions, bans on entry and stalking, but it is nevertheless important to constantly review, evaluate and improve the laws. In Austria, every fifth woman is affected by violence, and 90 percent happen in their own families or in the near area, we know about the estimates of the police. Therefore, it is important that those who are directly in contact with the victims – whether the police, the caregivers, the educators or the doctors – are well trained and sensitive in dealing with the affected ones in order to recognize the signs. I would like to thank all those who care best for the people concerned day after day with the necessary fingertips. The intervention agencies against violence in the family, the advisory bodies, the low-level victim protection institutions must be sufficiently present and women are also made more aware. This motion for a resolution is a motion for a resolution so that we can hold this issue in debate. Finally, I would like to say: It is important to take violence seriously, to take further action and to highlight prevention!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e19981	The next item is the speech by Mr Knes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e20002	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Gartelgruber, I do not think that the government on this issue, an important issue, is sparse. If you read the numbers exactly, you see, it is clear that the study was not published until March 2014. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gartelgruber]] [[New call of the abg. Gartelgruber.]] So talking about failure is very risky. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let's go to the Fact Sheets now! The Fact Sheets look like this – a lot has already been done –: Every third woman in the EU under 15 years of age – please let me speak, I have also let you speak; and stick to the figures in the fact sheets, okay?! – is affected by psychological and physical violence! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gartelgruber]] [[Congratulations on representatives of the SPÖ]] [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] The absolute population of the EU is 61 million women. – And you claim here that the government is shabby. However, the psychological strains start at home in the families. These are Lappalia: whether the soup is warm or cold, whether the window is cleaned or not, these are also psychological strains of all women, family affairs at home. The Fact Sheets: ==References====External links== years of physical or sexual violence; ==References====External links== years of stalking; 35 percent of all women have been married since the 15th century. Year of life must experience a form of sexual harassment. 27 percent of the women concerned report to doctors after seizures. And here's the point: Why don't these women or these victims go to the police or to public services, consulting services et cetera? - That's up! [[Abg. Gartelgruber: Because they are ashamed! Because they're ashamed!]] In my view, in addition to this motion for a resolution, which must be very well received, two campaigns should also be launched: one for women, where women are really to be encouraged to take the trouble of these institutions so that they can really get where they can get help and protection so that they can visit these houses in which there is advice. [[New call for tender Gartelgruber]] [[Abg. Gartelgruber: If they get a place!]] But there should also be a campaign for the boys and men, and this is also an important point: to work preventively, to raise awareness and to raise awareness of criminal law, so that the boys and men also know what they are looking for in the future. Violence against women is not a cavalier crime, and every woman has the right to protection and security here in Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e20097	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a shot? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution on measures against violence against women attached to the Committee's report 122 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 20.) [[20:58:25]] 26. Point Report by the Equal Treatment Committee on Amendment 251/A(E) by Mr Carmen Gartelgruber, colleagues, on the need for a more differentiated analysis and statistical presentation of the differences in income between women and men in Austria (123 d.e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e20146	We're going to the 26th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Gartelgruber has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e20173	Mr President. Madam Minister, before I come to my request, I should like to express my amazement at this. acknowledge that you have not even spoken about this sensitive issue here in plenary. I would already like to say that I would have liked you to comment on this issue or on this request, because that would have been your task now, of course. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Bayr and Mr Muttonen]] But now to my request: Twice each year, we “fear” the so-called day of income equality, on “New German” Equal Pay Day. In all media and events, the people responsible are dreamed that this is the day, from or to the women, when compared to men without wages. And this is about 25 percent. However, there are experts who significantly doubt these expertise and the ability to explain the figures presented. And there are also various studies and surveys that provide other results, such as those of the University of Linz, the WIFO or the University of Vienna. According to these studies, the pay gap between women and men is about 12 percent. The factors responsible for these income differences are different qualifications, the respective sectors, i.e. typical women's and men's professions, professional experience and the duration of membership; and the remaining 12 percent are also due to different career motivation and commitment. We know that women with children certainly do less overtime than women without children or men. In order to ensure a real comparability of income differences between men and women, we need a detailed statistical analysis of the evaluation. The figures should be adjusted and the key factors drawn up in order to be able to draw the right political conclusions. Minister! You promised me in a conversation we had with women's speakers that you would accept this problem. But now you reject my request here. I believe that this equal pay day and the pay gap between women and men are only more than a weapon thrown into the battle for gender. I think we'd send a good signal if we had actual numbers on the table so you can't act here with wrong numbers.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e20222	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e20243	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! What we need here is certainly not another statistics! We have statistics enough, whether it is from the Chamber of Labour, or from Statistics Austria, or from Eurostat, plus, plus, plus. You just have to look at her. These are quite differentiated data if you look at them carefully or if you can read statistics as well. Of course this is to be read out! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gartelgruber.]] An additional statistics, my colleague, Gartelgruber, does not benefit any woman, does not benefit anyone. [[Abg. Gartelgruber: But all the other statistics already, right?]] If we want to address this major problem, namely that the differences in income between women and men should be reduced, then we have to put in place other measures. Here, of course, you have us on your side, and here we should all work together, namely that in sectors where women are employed above all, whether in care, or in other so-called women's professions, there is a re-evaluation of the work; that income reports that we have introduced here during the last period are not only read but taken seriously; that the employment rates are accordingly advertised so that women know what they can demand. [[Abg. Gartelgruber: I have submitted enough applications for this!]] Here we are on an important path, precisely for these reasons. This income transparency has already proved successful. Of course, education is also an important aspect. Only, Mrs Gartelgruber, an additional income statistics will not help any woman and will not make a woman earn only one inch or one millimeter or one euro. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gartelgruber]] That is why we continue on our way.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e20305	Mrs Schenk is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e20326	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, dear Gisela Worm, for your emotional speech. I'll give you the right to say, We don't need any additional statistics. I'm very close to you. We don't need any additional statistics either. What it is all about and what it is about in this proposal is the comparability, ladies and gentlemen, dear Gisela! We have no comparability, we can't compare. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gisela Worm.]] We have differences here as regards salary shears ranging from 5.6 to 38 percent. Where is she now, the paycheck? - No, we don't! We have different statistics. Statistics Austria speaks of 23.4 percent, the WIFO of 13.5 percent, the Chamber of Labour of 12.6 percent, the OECD of 19.4 percent, the WKO of 5.6 percent, the Court of Auditors of 18 percent. After what? Which statistics are right now, and how can we compare? [[Abg. New builder: Only those I faked myself!]] - That's right. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we need a unification. We need a statistics where we all start from the same number and start from the same statistics. I'm quite with you when you say that extra statistics don't bring women a penny anymore. But this inconsistency of statistics does not bring women any more cents! We must, ladies and gentlemen, and I should also like to ask everyone not to change a small political currency here, really work to ensure that the pay-as-you-go workers who do not dispute anyone who is there will be closed, together with the Minister of Labour, with all the parties in the Committee. But we need comparable data in order to continue the work here as well. This request is supported. Unfortunately, he was rejected in the Equal Treatment Committee, but the period is still long; giving up is only one letter! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e20393	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Aubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e20415	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! It's nice that we're talking about improvements for women, even at this time – always important! We all know: Women often earn much less than men for the same work, which is completely undisputed. This income sheath just belongs away! Do we need a new statistics, new double-tracks? - We don't want that. We want to reduce bureaucracy and reduce these double-rails. If you criticize – I have listened very attentively – there are many statistics with different numbers, you cannot compare them, here is a concrete proposal: Why do we not agree on a statistics, such as the Court of Auditors' report, and debate on this basis? – This would be cost-effective, simple and transparent. But what we're talking about is not the statistics. We're talking about: What really helps women? There are a number of measures that this government is taking. For example, in the labour market: Support for women to find a job again. 50 percent of the funding is reserved for women – quite, very important! This government will pump €370 million into the labour market over the next three years, which will also help a lot of women. We have the care allowance, which also helps many women. Since many women don't even come to these top jobs to get top courses, there is also the educational care; Training: good for women! What is still a special concern to us is also the income shears in the pension. We know that women's pensions are much lower than men's pensions. What can we do? – There will soon be a good offer, namely the new bonus postponement, at least for women who already have a job. Whoever can and who wants can after 60. Also continue to work on life-years and thus achieve a much higher pension with a higher bonus. We invite you to: Join us, we will make further improvements! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e20461	Mrs Mag. Schwentner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e20482	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Dear colleague Gartelgruber, you don't have to celebrate the Equal Pay Day, and I don't want to celebrate on Equal Pay Day because we don't celebrate it at all. It is a day that draws attention to a state, and this state means: Disparity between women and men in the labour market. We may agree that there is this condition. And there are different methods – yes, there are – to calculate this state, exactly! But we will – and we can now very often argue about whether there is a number – which do not find a number because there are simply different methods: whether we expect part-time or part-time adjusted, or gross hourly wages, or what does it mean now? – the Gender Gap Report from the World Economic Forum, which even includes education, health and other sub-areas that say much more about equality or inequality in our society. And what is it? – The fact is, if you look at me like this and shake your head: Perhaps we are working to ensure that there is simply a huge fact that women are disadvantaged in the workplace. Okay, if we agree on this, then we can continue to work on it, and we don't need to discuss this request again every year. That would be really fine, because we could devote ourselves to other issues in this context, namely inequality... [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gartelgruber: It's unfair...!]] That's not unfair because I think you're distracting from an blatant problem. This blatant problem is a disparity between women and men in the labour market. Women are disadvantaged, most disadvantaged! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] When we talk about the measures: Mrs Minister, I am sorry that at the moment you do not have as much time to devote yourself to the issue that would be at least as big and important as education, namely women. After all, 51 percent of our society, the population is women. It's left a little behind. We also know, unfortunately, that many of the measures that the National Action Plan has taken during the last government period have not been put in place. In my opinion, it has been used to use toothless instruments to counteract precisely this type of income. We should rather fight – and we would also need your support, dear FPÖ ladies and gentlemen – to continue on the wheels such as: repair income reports or enforce many other measures that would help close the payroll shears and ensure that the inequality of men and women on the labour market is history. But if we continue with you this way, we won't get there. I am really sorry for the time we need to discuss such requests even more often. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e20540	Mrs Oberhauser spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e20561	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Gartelgruber, I would like to ask you how you can agree with the FPÖ party programme. I'm really serious about whether or not You might want to get rid of the FPÖ with this request, or even those who have written the FPÖ Party Programme, perhaps want to make a distrust request. You have just accused us of this at the Minister's office. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Dear Mrs. Gartelgruber, do you know your party program? Do you know your party program on equality? Written, too, you know it? - That's what it says: We strongly reject the preference of a gender to eliminate actual or supposed disadvantage. Statistically calculated inequalities – where they come from, raise brackets, add brackets – which are caused by a variety of factors cannot be compensated for by injustice against individual people. [[Abg. Auer: Now don't look...!]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] What needs to be done You're a statistical one if you don't believe it anyway? – If we look after what our previous speakers told you, If we close the income shears, we take the numbers we have! [[Abg. Singer: We make a statistics ourselves!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gartelgruber.]] Mrs Gartelgruber! I don't think we'll wait a year until we have this request back on the table. I expect this to happen much earlier and I am glad to be able to discuss this again. In the Committee, we will also reject this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e20629	As the last speaker in this debate, Mrs Dipl.-Kffr.Pfurtscheller is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e20654	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Estimated viewers on the screens! Dear colleagues from the FPÖ and ladies from the FPÖ, what would happen if you were to get your so hotly loved study or your so hotly loved new statistics? – We just had a seventh, eighth, ninth or tenth number, which we had to compare with the others again, and in the end the same thing came out again, which we all already know: Unfortunately, women on average deserve less than men. That's the tragedy, and a tenth study doesn't change. [[Congratulations on ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens.]] I join my colleague, Worm, when she says – and I have done so in my concept – that does not help a single woman, and no one woman will earn only one cent more through another study. That is why I think we should consider other solutions and approaches. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gartelgruber.]] I would now like to bring you closer, ladies and gentlemen, what moves me and what I think very often. [[Abg. Singer:... did you help, but you won't let it!]] This is perhaps a different approach in some respects. I am a former employee and worked in the private sector for over 30 years. I know exactly how important it is... – Mrs Colleague, I would be very grateful if you would listen to me now! [[New call of the abg. Gartelgruber.]] I listened to you, too, and I didn't disturb you! I know exactly how important it is for women to be able to self-confidently negotiate and communicate their wishes in small and medium-sized enterprises during salary negotiations. In contrast to the public service and other than in large enterprises, in which collective contracts are often paid, in the small and medium-sized enterprises, the bosses and the bosses still decide in person, largely independent and sometimes not comprehensible for everyone who deserves how much. That's why it's clearly also about women learning – learn more! – to negotiate consistently and skillfully, and to show no shyness about their demands. In my working life, I have always noticed that sometimes my colleagues were too modest and too shy to articulate their wishes and their ideas, and that those who were courageous have usually received the salary they have imagined. That is why I personally want to strengthen women, and especially young women, and to provide them with the appropriate communication expertise that helps them to put their wishes and ideas into practice. This can be done in school, during the teaching period, as well as in appropriate courses and through public work. Of course, I am well aware that this is only a very small building block in all our diverse efforts to ensure equal pay for women. But I personally think it really is very important that we not only discuss improving and reforming the system from top to bottom, but also strongly point out that women have a lot of it in their hands and should courageously go their way. Please also help all of you to strengthen and encourage women in your environment in this sense! – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e20710	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Equal Opportunities to take note of his report 123 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this, to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. [[21:18:11]] 27. Point Report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on Amendment No 263/A(E) by Mr Leopold Steinbichler, colleagues on the protection of consumers and farmers by maintaining the national milk quota (98d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e20757	We're on the 27th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Doppler was the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e20784	Mr President. Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! To maintain the national milk quota: The milk quota is almost a delivery right for farmers, and it is now sacrificed on the EU altar. By 2015, the EU's milk quota scheme will expire, and thus also for Austria. The dairy farmers want to learn quickly how to proceed. Processors – dairies, cheeseries – want to wait as long as possible because the market conditions in 2015 are not predictable. That's right! Just, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen: Who are the keepers? – Not the dairies, but the farmers! The magic word of the EU: more stability for the milk market. – As far as the magic words of the EU and what they are worth, ladies and gentlemen, we now know only too well, namely: nothing! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Farmer mortality is greatly accelerated by this EU. We from FPÖ want domestic farms to continue to produce healthy, good basic food for the population and not to be delivered unconditionally to the EU's arbitrarily. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber]] – This also applies to you, Mr Pirklhuber.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e20829	Mr Grillitsch has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e20853	Mr President. Federal Minister! The European Union has set itself a clear goal for the next seven years, which is to offer food sovereignty to people in Europe and thus also in Austria. We know that the raw materials will be scarce in the future. That is why I do not fully understand the current proposal, namely that an attempt is being made to maintain a national quota in Austria, which would limit farmers in their ability to produce. We must adapt to the circumstances and give farmers the opportunity to produce what people need. And they do that in Austria to the satisfaction – environmentally friendly, animal-friendly and keeping the landscape open. I believe that agriculture with this social added value must also put production at the centre of every agricultural enterprise. That is why I say quite openly: Although we have succeeded in maintaining the milk quota in the last decades, if I know that we need 50 percent more food in 20 years, I do not want to exclude Austrian farmers from production opportunities. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] That is why, Mr Pirklhuber, let us open our doors! Let us take advantage of the opportunity that we can offer to the Austrian farmers and to the consumers. Farmers offer comprehensive gene freedom in milk production. Over 70 percent of the milk comes from the mountain areas. We have the highest quality standards, ladies and gentlemen. We have the highest biomilk content in Europe at 15 percent. And we have, as has been said, the strictest environmental and animal welfare conditions. So don't talk about that bad! Let us give farmers the opportunity to produce what consumers want.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e20899	Next speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e20920	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Even though time has already advanced, I would like to point out, because Mr Grillitsch has just mentioned that what farmers and consumers want is the following: One thing is clear: There is a single agricultural brand in the Austrian food trade, which is “A fair milk”. [[The speaker shows a tetra pack of this brand.]] This is a producer community of Austrian farmers, who in recent years have strongly applied for it in the milk struggle, so that the public, Mr Grillitsch, understand what the problem is. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] These dairy farmers were also those who from the outset demanded that the milk quota be carried out, that it really be observed, and against tradition and against dumping in the dairy sector. [[Intervocations at ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Why? Why did these farmers want this? – Because they want a fair price for a high quality food, colleague Grillitsch. [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] And what's up there? – ‘100 % fair = 100 % future’. Yes, this is the message of farmers. And I think many consumers have understood this. those who say: Yes, we want to support the Austrian mountain farmers, dairy farmers, the green farms! We're buying this milk! Do you know what price, Mr Grillitsch? What does this milk cost in the supermarket? [[The speaker again shows the tetra pack of the brand “A fair milk”]] Tell me! Please? - He doesn't know! It costs €1.29, which is the highest milk price for such a product, while the farmers get 10 cents more. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Essl]] This is the project of these farmers! Mr Steinbichler's request, which is to be discussed here, is, of course, not to be implemented in one point – and that is the difficulty: The European Union has not decided to continue the milk quota. But it would have been, ladies and gentlemen, the task of the Austrian Minister for Agriculture in recent years to raise this demand, and it would still be useful to raise it now, because the sugar beet quota will also be extended until 2018. Mr. Federal Minister, is it true or is it not? Why there is a protection of production for beet farmers and for dairy farmers the opposite, namely Laissez-faire, one allows them to compete against one another. The European Union's milk production areas are in the toughest competition. This means a farm producing milk for many years in Austria over the next five years. For example, 40 percent of these dairy farmers in Salzburg are organic farms. This is the reality, Mr Grillitsch! And what is happening here is negligent from our point of view; that is what everyone who is serious and intensive about this issue knows. In this context, I also do not understand that you, Mr Federal Minister, are in the future planning to reduce 80 percent of the premiums to farmers in the countryside for alpine pastures and hut pastures. 80 percent reduction factor for premiums for alpine pastures and hut pastures! I don't understand. This law, the Market Regulation Act, is still under review, I know. Ladies and gentlemen! What it was about would be justice for the producers, fair prices for fair production conditions. This is an opportunity and a future for our society, because we live in these regions also from tourism. Without green land management, without cattle would be an alpine economy, a tourism in Salzburg and Tyrol would be unthinkable. This is also an essential contribution to food safety. That's why, Minister of State, give yourself a back! If we can't keep the milk quota, then you would have to take a firm stand for the introduction of a redistribution premium in order to promote the first 20 to 30 hectares of farmers and to introduce a job factor in the support system so that these farms, these dairy farms, will also have a chance in the future. 100 percent fair would be a fair agricultural policy for green agriculture. We will fight for this in the next discussions. This will be our topic at the budget as early as tomorrow. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e21024	Mr Grillitsch spoke in favour of an actual correction. Mr President, you are familiar with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e21048	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr Pirklhuber has claimed that farmers are getting more for “fair milk” than for other milk varieties and other dairy products in Austria. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: 10 cents! Of course!]] The fact is that farmers get 3 cents less for “fair milk” than they otherwise get for milk.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e21091	President. — I call Mr Preiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e21112	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to thank the hard-working farmers who run the dairy industry very much for their work. That is not a matter of course. So a warm thanks to all the dairy farmers who guarantee the supply of Austrian milk. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The current milk quota scheme has existed since 2003, regulates the quantity and, of course, the price of milk. The existing milk quota scheme is particularly important for small-scale family farms. Finally, it ensures the existence of small farms. The UN declared 2014 as the year of the rural family farms, and not of about, in order to raise general awareness of the problems of small-structured agriculture. And I think this is also a task for us to focus on small-scale farms. The milk quota scheme is applicable on 1 January. April 2015, as we know, is EU-wide. It is therefore necessary to make a reasonable further provision in order not to leave farmers who operate the dairy industry in the rain. I would like to briefly highlight the situation as it is currently showing itself: The number of dairy holdings has fallen blatantly. On the other hand, production per cow increases at the same time. In short, only a few comparisons: In 1960 a cow gave just over 2,500 kg of milk a year. In 2010 we were already at 6 100 kg, 2012 at 6 418 kg of milk per cow per year. At the same time, the number of cows has almost halved in the last decades, but production has almost tripled. As far as the milk sector is concerned, we are in Austria at a self-sufficiency rate of 155 percent. This, of course, will have problems, especially if the quota system falls in the coming year and is not countered. Here, taking the open market will lead to an blatant price decline. [[Call the ÖVP: Why?]] It is therefore necessary to react in good time that one reacts in the current year 2014, Mr. Collegue, in order to give the farmers planning security, but at the end of the day, as well as legal certainty. I therefore ask all those who are politically responsible to also start an expert group on milk in the current year 2014, with the production companies, of course also with the processing companies, with dairies and also with representatives of consumers. It has already been mentioned: 70 percent of the milk production in Austria is carried out in the mining area, on the pastures, quality 1a. It's high-class milk. It is also necessary to launch an information initiative and offensive for more production in the organic milk sector to focus on this rail also for consumers. It is also important – and I would like to conclude by mentioning this – that our small farmers' structures in the alpine areas, as regards milk production, cannot be combined with the farms in Germany, the Netherlands, the Netherlands, in the country. It is therefore also necessary to strengthen the Europe of the regions in the dairy sector in Austria. In this sense, I hope that these milk talks will succeed in 2014, so that we can continue to enjoy high-quality milk in Austria. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e21155	Next speaker: Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e21176	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Very special: Dear spectators on the televisions! Now the farmers can also watch, the daily stable work is done. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] 365 days a year, that's always forgotten. We are often better in the regulations than in our co-existence, which really results in animal husbandry in terms of work and care. It has already been referred to by Mr Preiner and also by Mr Pirklhuber, but perhaps I can say something to Mr Grillitsch before: Fritz, you're confusing free milk and fair milk. There are two brands: Fair milk actually pays this fairness surcharge. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. Grillic: Where? How much is that?]] Genetically free, valuable Austrian milk has been praised. Why? – Because we have known here in Austria for the freedom of genetic engineering and feed local protein, most valuable protein from the meadow, from the permanent meadow, from the Kleegras. [[Abg. Auer: Geno-free soya!]] This valuable milk must be protected with the quota. Because it was addressed: I believe that there must be equal treatment in the milk quota as in the beet quota, because we are in the European area. If the beet quota is legally possible, this legal certainty and this planning certainty must also be established for the milk quota. We have the example of Switzerland. In Switzerland, three months later, after the quota was abolished, the milk market collapsed. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Insanity!]] Now the young farmers may be lured by saying: Now you can produce as much as you want!, is simply a crazy one. I think it is a matter of ensuring safety and planning. The value is also very important: We have the opportunity – and this has already been mentioned – to use the A- and B-Quote, the national quota, which has also been calculated so far, and the traditional milk, which I then call the B-Quote, as a control instrument. You can then control this: If the dairy industry needs more raw materials, more milk, it will pay a better price for the B-Quote, the same price as for the A-Quote, and if it has surpluses, it can reduce there. I believe that the most important thing is the quota for the protection of small farmers' farms. [[Abg. Grill: Why should farmers pay punishment?]] Especially in the difficult mountain areas, where this also has a touristic effectiveness, this work is very important for our Austrian tourism, but also for consumers, for our most important partners. This milk is a valuable food – food sovereignty has been addressed – which is produced in a viable cultural landscape. It is also particularly important that food sovereignty with excellent quality Austrian domestic food is guaranteed in the future. It is about home jobs, quality of life, climate and the environment. I would ask that this working group on milk really cooperates constructively. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e21264	Next speaker: Mr Eßl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e21293	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! For me, it is a whole new thing that Stronach wants state regulations for something that every individual can do, because what the Leo Steinbichler has addressed can basically make every single dairy, every cheesery in the future. We don't need a state regulation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] When the quota was introduced, we had a rigid market order, since the quota certainly had its permissions, since there were strict rules. However, we have had a very strong change in recent years: away from the market order to the market economy. The quota is currently, in Europe, de facto ineffective, but expensive. In the dairy year 2012/13, only five countries in Europe have exhausted the quota, a total of 163 000 tonnes - Austria of which 103 000 tonnes - and these were in addition to Austria the countries Denmark, Germany, Poland and Cyprus. As a result, a total surplus of €45.45 million has been paid to the EU, of which €28.45 million has been paid by the Austrian farmers. In 2011/2012, this was even €33.26 million. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] If I look at what an average farm deserves, the nearly 1,700 farm families who have donated their incomes to Brussels are just about the same. That, I believe, is no longer necessary in the future. Why? – Price formation does not take place in the region, not in Austria, the price formation takes place in Europe. We no longer have borders around Austria. We have borders around Europe – and there the price formation is taking place. [[Abg. Steinbichler: Mr Colleague, that is not true!]] The continuation of the quota system is obsolete. There is far and wide no majority in Europe for this – that should be decided –; maintaining the quota in Austria alone – I would have been inclined to say that this is a nonsense, but I do not say that – is highly unreasonable, because this would almost bind our Austrian dairy farmers and let the rest of the world run free. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Have they had decades!]] That's the wrong way! We need strong processing companies that produce best products and have a good positioning on the market. That helps the farmers! It is important that we have a good price, and I would like to ask that the Chamber of Labour does not constantly come up with any price comparisons and says: That's too expensive and that's too much!, but we all have to help together. Another word to the trade chains: The “geiz-is-geil-method” is not what consumers want. Consumers want fresh products from the region. That is why we need rules that do not include ques tionous, unnecessary regulations and requirements. We want valuable foods that also have their price. It is therefore necessary, unfortunately, to reject this request here.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e21371	Mr Jannach has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e21393	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr. Eßl, you don't have to resort to the trade chains. The Federal Minister has clearly said that the trade chains will participate in farmers' products. And we're counting on the Minister's word. That's why we don't blame the trade chains. That's not our intention. We represent a different position than this block here called the ÖVP Farmers' Association Block. You must say that you want to have the product “growth or soft” in agriculture. When the colleague Grillitsch comes out and says: We don't want to restrict the farmers in production!, I have to ask him: How should a farm in the mountain area which has 10 hectares, which has lived from 20 cows and can now no longer be competitive because of the prices? How should such a plant expand, which simply does not have the opportunity to do so? It happens what we do not want: that everything shifts to the favors! You'd have to be fair, get out of here and tell the farmers: We want to grow or softly, we want to play in the European market! [[Abg. Grill: The farmers used to rent it!]] And that is your goal! Our goal is not that! – I know you're yelling, but I still call you figures from Statistics Austria, which show the development in the dairy sector: [[Abg. Don't yell! - Oh, my God!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] In 2006/2007 there were 45 700 dairy holdings in Austria, i.e. farms with a milk quota. Now we have exactly 36 000. In seven years, in this whole CAP period, one fifth of the farms producing milk have ceased. To illustrate the numbers a little bit more – Production has not fallen. [[Abg. Grill: The production has not fallen!]] But we are not concerned with production, we are concerned with the conservation of agricultural holdings in the mountain area. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We can do the numbering: A fifth of the farms in the last seven years, which are 9 200 farms in seven years, 1 324 farms per year or 3.6 farms per day with dairy farming, which have ceased in seven years of successful EIA agricultural policy. Even more serious is the number of cattle farmers. I tell you that – dear Fritz Grillitsch, you can get out of here and then make a word message again. [[Abg. Grill: in the mountain area?]] But do not make any actual correction, because the figures of Statistics Austria do not lie, as we know from the pig sector! And we also have a problem in the beef and veal sector – and this will be the case for Austrian society, not just the farmers – because it is precisely those farms that we want to maintain, namely those in the disadvantaged area, those in the mountain area and those in the Alpine region. This will only become aware of society later; perhaps you too, if you think about it and look at the statistics on how many businesses actually lock. Farmers are not just food producers. It is always so praised to produce healthy food that the population wants it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl.]] Mr Eßl, particularly in Salzburg, many farms are also closed because of the problem of the alpine environment. And you had to recognize that too. [[Abg. Sieber: What did it use?]] We just want to keep these plants, you confess to growing or making things soft. The disappearance of these farms is a burden on the labour market, everyone knows. Every farm that locks up is one too much. This farmer then ends up on the labour market. But that also has incredible social consequences. Failure to manage and move from disadvantaged areas also has a social impact and an impact on tourism. We see this in Italy. In Italy, where the pastures and the less favoured areas are no longer managed, everything is bussing and stifling. If cattle farming and dairy farming are gone, we simply have to note that the agricultural policy you have operated has not been successful. This is clear and evidenced. We now have the opportunity to strengthen these farms – and I agree with Mr Pirklhuber – in the course of the CAP reform and in the negotiation of the new programme, if we really want to maintain the land-wide agriculture. [[Abg. Pirklhuber keeps a milk pack up - standing in the green sector]] Here I only hear lip confessions. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have another access, I say: We want to get the quota. Please explain why you get the sugar beet quota, but not the milk quota? Once you have to get out and explain why one area is protected and the other will be left to the free market! Come out here and explain this to the farmers! Explain this to the dairy farmers! We see in the quota a chance to preserve these farms and not to suspend them to the free market. Otherwise everything will move to the favors. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl.]] That's our view. This is our access to the protection of small businesses. You are for growth or softness; we want to receive the small farms. The sugar beet quota will be maintained, the milk quota will be abolished – please – only passed to the Minister. [[Abg. Pirklhuber Federal Minister Rupprechter places a glass of milk on the government bank]] And we don't want that! We are in favour of maintaining the milk quota. You have done too little in Europe. Her predecessor as a minister is not here at all, he is no longer interested in it. We want to keep it that way. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Yes, come out and explain the sugar beet quota scheme! Why will the sugar beet quota be obtained? You have to say that! Come out and just explain: Milk quota is gone, sugar beet quota remains! - Where is justice? The same thing is treated differently. [[Call: Weakness]] By the way, I would like to point out one thing: The milk quota was a delivery right for farmers. [[Call the ÖVP:No!]] – That wasn't a delivery right? Who says that? That wasn't a delivery right? Then I will quote you “12 questions to ÖVP agrarian Jakob Auer ” in the “view to the country” before the National Council election. [[Keeping a sheet of paper in height]] By the way, the Moosbrugger, your agricultural chamber officer in Vorarlberg, and Jakob Auer also said this in an interview before the National Council election. This is the abolition of the milk quota: “Investment costs in delivery rights” for farmers “fall away.” – Delivery rights! It goes on to say: Moosbrugger confirms delivery right. – And Wlodkowski also referred to this as “delivery right”. Farmers have invested a lot of money in milk quotas. What is being operated here is theft of farm property. Hundreds of thousands of euros have gone into milk quotas purchases, now they have become worthless with a blow. This is theft! We have already made several requests, since we are demanding compensation for farmers. They've been rejected every time. [[Abg. Eßl: compensation for surplus!]] So please, Mr Minister, our position in this regard is clear, I also believe that the majority of the opposition: We are for maintaining the milk quota! By the way, there is no safety net that you have announced a lot. That's where we want a change. We want this quota for the protection of domestic dairy farmers. The figures are clear how many dairy farms have stopped. Mr Minister, just nice words and saying: This will be settled from the market, the farmers who are innovative and productive will survive and the others will not survive! is too little. This will be the consequence of your agricultural policy, which is being operated in the milk sector. We don't want that! That is why we are clearly and clearly committed to the milk quota as a system of quantities and to controlling the price for dairy farmers.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e21594	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Rupprechter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e21615	Mr President. High house! At this late hour everything has already been said on this question. It is only to be noted that it is a fact – and we know it more or less now since 2008 – that it is clear that an extension of the milk quota regime, so that it would have been desirable at European level and for which Austria has also been strongly committed, was no longer feasible, because neither the European Commission – you know this very well – nor any appropriate majority in the Council nor any more in the European Parliament has provided for an extension of the milk quota. [[Abg. Jannach: That's quite another thing!]] As long as there is an EU market organisation – you know it very well, you know that – a self-restriction of Austrian agriculture with a national quota is not permitted only legally. Apart from this legal argument, I would also like to say that a quantity restriction in Austria would also disadvantage Austrian dairy farmers. This would ultimately lead to the conclusion that our milk producers within the European Union would continue to have the production limit and the additional costs of this limitation and also such a scheme would at any time be open to all Austrian producers in the sense that they would, of course, be brought to the fore. It is as it has already been said: The Austrian dairy farmers have an outstanding position within the European Union as dairy producers with non-genotechnic production, with the top segments of organic milk and, above all, hay milk. This is a segment with double-digit growth rates. This really makes us very well prepared for this competition. And the Austrian dairy producers are preparing for this competition. In the last year of the expiry of the quota, it would have seemed right to me to provide for a gradual expiry of the surplus levy – you know the scheme very well. I have made a strong effort to provide for a reduction in the surplus levy this year. My proposal on this subject at the Council's level to make a fat correction for the milk delivered, which would ultimately lead to a gradual reduction in the surplus levy, remains on the negotiating table. We will discuss this issue by June at the latest on the basis of a report by Commissioner Cioloş. I am also active in working with relevant negotiating partners, such as Christian Schmidt from Germany and Stéphane Le Foll, the French minister, on a common procedure. I shall, of course, report to you on this. It is right, in my view, that we need a milk dialogue in Austria, as it has been stimulated in different ways. I will also take a significant part in this. We also need a dialogue on milk at European level. But above all, what we need – and I like to repeat this – is a fairness pact for Austrian dairy farmers, a fairness pact with trade, with food retailing. I have already started the talks on this subject. The Austrian dairy farmers deliver excellent quality. They will also be able to perceive the new market opportunities, as the Austrian dairy farmers are the bearing pillar for our life-worthy Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e21652	Mrs Gusenbauer-Jäger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e21673	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Milk farmers, milk quota systems, dairy producers – tags that have now raised the emotions. Milk production is one of the most important sectors of production in Austria. That's undisputed! Around a quarter of the farms produce milk. Three-quarters of these are in mining areas or produce under difficult conditions. Mr Grillitsch has also argued that three-quarters of these farms produce milk under difficult conditions. This important sector of production is now subject to changes, with the expiry of the milk quota regime in 2015. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] It's just this run-out. I can still remember when this regulation was introduced in 1984 and I know too well that this has caused a lot of criticism. This introduction was not undisputed. Of course, this regulation was necessary in order to reduce the milk lakes and the butterbergs, and this seems to have been so proven now that it is no longer possible to think away. However, we must look at the small-structured farms, our small farmers, in good time. We must therefore ensure that we can maintain the dairy industry with them. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: How, please?]] There are a number of measures to this end, and it is very important that the prices of producers are maintained to the extent that they can continue to exist. But it is also important that this does not happen to consumers. [[Ironian cheerfulness as well as a renewed call for intervention of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] At present the price is set from top to bottom: First the trade, then the dairy, and then the farmers have to accept what is coming. [[Abg. Brosz: a dairy security!]] There is a need for rethinking, and if we put forth a great deal of effort, this will also be possible. We have a good milk quality in Austria. We cannot compete with the oversized dairy factories, that is clear, but we have a good quality, and we must also implement it on the way to advertising, then we will be successful. Of course, this changeover is a major challenge, but let us pick it up with reasonable intentions! Then we will succeed. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e21735	Mrs Ecker. — (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e21757	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! As we heard today, the UN declared 2014 the year of the agricultural, small-structured farms. And exactly on these family farms, right. [[Call the ÖVP: Family farms!]] – And we should pay particular attention to these small-structured enterprises in Austria. In recent years, we have succeeded in making Austria interesting as a fine food shop. This was achieved or achieved not only through industrialized agriculture, but also through small farmers, who do not often also offer off-farm sales. Not a few cosmopolitans come to Austria because they like the land, the intact nature and the agricultural products offered here. However, the essential will to preserve the small peasant structures is also extremely important for another reason and the command of the hour. They offer, as they are smaller farms scattered across the country, much more protection and retention in times of crisis than few large central farms. I think it will be very important to secure national food supplies, especially basic food, in our country. [[Abg. Honey: What's the matter? Who?]] ==References== On 1 April 2015, the milk quota scheme expires, particularly in the interests of small farms, at the same time a scenario for the period following 1 January 2015. ==References====External links== I very much appeal to all those responsible, first and foremost to the Federal Minister for Agriculture, to make an active and constructive contribution in order to find a new regulation, which also exists at European level and preserves the interests of the small dairy farmers in Austria. Key questions in the search of this scheme must be: In Austria, do we want farmed family farms that produce high-quality food, or not? Do we want a strong organic farming in Austria or not? Do we want to in Austria miners and alpine industry or not? – If so, we must strengthen these farms, because by maintaining and strengthening these farms, rural areas with all their jobs remain on the farms. Austria is a mountain country, and milk production is an essential factor for the miners in particular. These interests are not the ones of a lobby that agriculture sees as an industry, but it is important to strengthen and support small farms in particular. [[Abg. Honey: What's the matter? That's the question!]] This is to be represented by all of us. – Thank you very much for making a speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e21817	Once again, Mr Steinbichler has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e21838	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr President. Minister! As one of the founders of IG milk, I am of course particularly proud that this milk pack is in this house today. [[The speaker holds up a milk pack.]] Here you can understand how to market a national product properly and fairly, with consumers. Here, too, 1984 has been mentioned, and the mistake has happened, Mr Eßl, as follows: When the milk quota was introduced, the fat ratio was too low in Austria. Of course, that cost us a lot of money for years. We have indicated 4,10 in Austria, while foreign competitors have indicated 4.23. But the most fatal mistake was that we had previously entered a voluntary dairy delivery model and that quantity was not included. That was the most fatal mistake! I consent, I was with you. But you have to admit that mistakes have been made. I would also like to say one thing: The representation of interests, the district farmers' chambers have advised the farmers and farmers, so have I. When someone came and said: The neighbor gives the milk quota, what am I supposed to do?, then we said: Buy! Secure your delivery right! You'll secure the future for your business! It's clear: It can't be that you explain this overnight as worthless. Therefore, a possibility must be found to prevent this, either in the form of a continuation or in the form of a compensation solution. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] Very briefly, Minister, on the approach with the supermarkets: I think that's the most important thing. We need to make sure that the supermarkets with the basic food locks – at the weekend minus 25 percent on all dairy products, minus 25 percent on all meat products – stop. That must be set, that can't be! [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and ÖVP.]] One last point: Minister, there has to be some national law because otherwise we have to change the Federal Animal Protection Act. We have also managed to ensure that the only EU country to be the only one in Austria is banned from binding, and I do not believe that the EU is in conformity. So, there has to be national spaces, and I'd appeal that we use them to the full. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e21897	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to take note of his report 98 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of this report to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The report has therefore been taken note of as it stands. [[22:00:31]] 28. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 266/A(E) by Mr Mag. Christiane Brunner, Hannes Wenninger, Johann Höfinger, Ulrike Weigerstorfer, Michael Pock, colleagues on: Whales and dolphins are a species to be protected, as well as the Amendment 140/A(E) by Mr Mag. Christiane Brunner, colleagues on: Whales and dolphins are not competition from fishermen but a species to be protected (120 d.b.) 29. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on motion for a resolution (Doc.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e21984	We now come to points 28 and 29 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs. Dr. Winter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e22011	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am the first to speak to you on this item on the agenda today, because I am, or because the FPÖ probably has the only contrection to this five-party request. Why we are against this proposal in itself is, I believe, easy to explain if one reads from the actual text of the resolution only briefly. There's inside – I quote –: “The Austrian Federal Government is also being asked to protect whales and dolphins at European and international level” – now the important thing is coming! – “in addition, take an active and leading role” In order to ensure the protection of these animals, this is to be done. And that is the point, ladies and gentlemen, why you simply cannot agree and why we have not already agreed in advance, because we believe that this is absolutely not a target. And it will probably find no attention at all. In principle, the FPÖ is in the most pronounced form for animal welfare. We believe that animals also have feelings that they suffer and that everything should only be done possible to protect them, and that animals are very often the best friend of humans. In this sense, we would like to see actually live, applied animal welfare also in Austria and rather support institutions dealing with animal welfare in Austria, in our country. Personally, for example, I am a great friend of Michael Aufhauser's Grace Courts, who always needs support, both private and public. ==References== Agenda item is about the evaluation of bisphenol A. I think that many will say a lot of things about this. We can accept this request because it is an industrial chemistry which is mainly used for the production of plastics, i.e., unfortunately has taken place in our daily lives. There is now a European Food Safety Authority, which even recommends reducing the limit. I think it's also in others. EU countries already have more stringent provisions on this, Austria should also deal with it, and we believe that this matter is absolutely part of the Health Committee. We from FPÖ live in principle according to the ideas “Mens sana in corpore sano”. In this sense, we hope that this proposal will also receive appropriate support from the Health Committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e22057	The next item is the speech by Mr Höfinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e22078	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We have tabled a joint motion for a resolution on the protection of whales and dolphins as species to be protected. At first it may be surprising that we are talking about this issue here, but even if it does not fall within our immediate competence and task, we are also indirectly responsible. If the colleague, Mr Winter, who has now spoken before me, meant that the FPÖ would not agree to this request, because we might not be heard at all, then I can only say to her: This is a mistake, because there is a decision of the International Court of The Hague, where the year of whaling was banned in Japan and where Japan also adopted this decision. But it would never have happened if countries such as Austria had not made the effort to sue this prohibition on whaling. Then it would never have come to this condemnation, and then at the moment the whaling would not have been suspended. But there are different possibilities for Japan to reintroduce whale fishing again, that it is scientifically based on whale fishing in other forms, and therefore our work is not done with it. It is our task to contribute to a worldwide conservation of a species that is very important throughout the ecosystem. That is why we are happy to support this request. Next point: Evaluation of bisphenol A. This is also a subject that we have in Parliament again and again. I believe that in 2011 we decided on a ban on baby articles. In the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, we agreed to assign this request to the Committee on Health, because it should also be dealt with there. I believe that we must always deal with this issue very carefully. Although industry is constantly saying that certain chemicals are necessary to produce certain things, we are constantly experiencing that there are other possibilities. We therefore take this request very seriously, but it should be dealt with explicitly in the Committee on Health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e22115	The next item is the speech by Mr Wenninger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e22137	Mr President. Minister! High house! This request calls on the Austrian Federal Government to work towards Japan and at European and international level to promote the fight against crime. to put an end to dolphins in Japan. But after we in the Austrian Parliament relatively rarely have the opportunity to talk about fisheries policy, I would also like to use this opportunity to make two comments on this. First of all, I would like to draw the attention of consumers to an initiative by the WWF, which is very detailed in terms of fishing for the oceans of the world, and which gives consumer advice to consumers in the purchase of fish. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My second comment is addressed to the Federal Minister for Fisheries for the EU Fisheries Agreement with Morocco. This agreement counters the political and diplomatic efforts of the United Nations to enforce the decolonization process in Western Sahara and the right of self-determination of the people of Zaraur. I therefore call on you, Mr Agriculture Minister, as well as the Foreign Minister and all the members of the Federal Government, to prevent such agreements in the future at European level. The third is an appeal to the colleagues of the FPÖ: Of course, this proposal is very focused on the question of dolphin and whale hunting in Japan, and your argument in the Committee was, of course, consistent that it is not a global animal welfare agreement and that it only aims at this one problem. But if we were to do so as far as our political debate is concerned, we would probably hardly have any requests on any subject. Mr Neubauer, who is really a fighter against nuclear power stations, how often are we talking about individual nuclear power plants, about final storage sites? I make an urgent appeal to the FPÖ: It would really be a good sign for the House if we could decide on this proposal together! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I think the consideration – including the FPÖ – was that we could develop a unanimous position of the Austrian Parliament from the date of the Committee discussion to this day by means of changes in the content of this five-party request. Finally, thank you very much for the initiative of the Greens who made this request. I would also have voted in favour of this motion, but it is, of course, much better if this proposal is now a five-party request and is perhaps unanimously adopted by the National Council in a few minutes with the votes of the Freedom Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e22197	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Brunner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e22218	Mr President. Mr. Environment Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, they may be watching us from home. We are now discussing two issues from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection at a later hour. As chairman, however, it is particularly important to me to say that, of course, it is not just these two issues that we are discussing in the Committee. There are also many other at least equally important environmental issues, and many of them are also dealt with in the Environment Committee. They don't come to plenary here only because of the delay practice. But we are still working in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and are discussing these issues in detail. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Today, as has been said, we have two issues on the agenda. One is the request of the colleague, Rejectorfer, to Bisphenol A. It is here – that is, I think, many well-known – that it is a hormonal chemical. The application deals with measures to push this chemical back, to go to a ban. We would support this proposal and think that, in the medium term, it can only be the goal of replacing even hormonally active chemicals, because, as has been said, they represent not only an environmental impact but also a massive health risk. The application will continue to be dealt with in the Health Committee and will surely find green support. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Refusal torphere.]] The second issue is the protection of whales and dolphins in Japan. It was my request that the Austrian Federal Government position itself clearly towards Japan here, because I think that the preservation of biodiversity, the preservation of living beings, of important living beings is a global issue that concerns all of us, wherever one has to interfere and the Austrian Federal Government should refer to quite clearly. I am pleased that this request will be given broad approval. It is now no longer my request, but a five-party request. I welcome it. If one wanted to maintain a new style in the government, on the part of the government parties, one could have agreed to the opposition proposals at the same time. I don't think there's a stone falling out of the crown. We agree if we like government documents, too, directly. This would have saved us a delay in time. But I am pleased that the Austrian Federal Government will now be clearly positioned towards Japan – you, Minister, have already done so. Five-party applications or multi-party requests always come about when you refer to other countries, set someone up something or ask for what to do in the direction of the EU. So important now is the issue of whales and dolphins, but I would like us to have broad support in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and to make clear decisions when it comes to measures that we need to put at home here in Austria. They were all postponed in the Committee. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] For example, what we have discussed very intensively in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection is a clear decision on the energy transition. If it really is to go towards the energy transition, it means a clear rejection of fracking, the shale gas drilling. This was brought into the Environment Committee by us, also brought in by other opposition parties – unfortunately adjourned, no clear decision here in Austria. The same is true of energy efficiency, where decisions are now being taken in Austria: the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, unfortunately, is not here in plenary and not a clear Austrian decision. We could make clear decisions to make Austria a climate pioneer, clear decisions on packaging prevention, plastic prevention, plastic prevention – all important topics. Unfortunately, they are postponed, decisions not made. I therefore believe, in conclusion, that, as Parliament and as the Committee on the Environment, we need to make more decisions here self-confidence, which continue to bring us on an environmental policy that makes Austria a pioneer again. I am still convinced that Austria also needs an independent, strong and committed Ministry of the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e22294	Next item is the report by Mrs Weigerstorfer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e22315	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! First of all, on whales and dolphins. I think it is very welcome that there is a certain appreciation for living beings, even if it does not directly concern us now, because we simply do not have whales and dolphins in Austria. But animal welfare and animals do not have any limits, so this request is very welcome. As these two applications are now being dealt with together, I would like to comment on Bisphenol A, BPA in short. This is a basic chemical produced in large quantities. To get a little picture about it: In the EU alone, over one million tonnes of this BPA are consumed. So we're already talking about right masses, and consumption is constantly rising, by 8 percent per year. Where's BPA inside? – Almost everywhere: in plastics, in numerous objects of daily use. The dramatic is that very often there is also direct contact between BPA and food and beverages. You see, BPA's actually all over. To illustrate this to you a little bit, I would like to add a few things: in microwave-resistant dishes, in milk packs, we have just seen it in food packaging, in whole, quite a lot of can coatings. [[Call the Greens.]] – In milk packs, it is inside except for ‘BPA-free’. – It's inside eyeglasses, in cashbons, it's a bit down again, in CDs, in DVDs. So everything we actually attack every day has to do with BPA. Not only in all objects, but now it is so far that BPA has been shown in surface waters, in the air and in the sea water as well. Unfortunately, the long-term effects of BPA on the ecosystem and on drinking water et cetera are not yet sufficiently researched or these results are still very different. I would like further research to be carried out in this area. But now we come to the truly worrying one: It is very worrying that this BPA was particularly evident in the human body, in the blood, urine, in the fruit water, in the breast milk et cetera. That is, if you want to express it a little scratchy now, we have plastic in the blood, and that's because simply all the objects around us contain this BPA. In order to put this down with numbers: People in the industrialized states are now chronically burdened with bisphenol A by over 90 percent. These are numbers where I say, you have to be very, very careful. Above all, the effects of this basic chemical are clearly a threat to our health, because it is primarily hormonal. All the alarm bells have to ring, because everything that works on hormones is, of course, very, very worrying for us. The experts are very different about this, I say now. Depending on who pays the study, the effects are described in one direction or another. Some warn very much about it, some say it doesn't matter in some quantities. Only these “conscienceal quantities” are too little tangible for me, since it is not just a product in which BPA is contained. No matter what we attack, whether we attack our milk packs, whether we pick up a packaging, whether we get into the car, this BPA is inside everywhere, and there are too many opinions about the extent to which the sum of these BPA contacts affects the human body very well. Because of these numerous daily contacts, it is hardly possible to draw up guidelines that are really useful. That is why my proposal is to evaluate this issue at national level, where Austria unfortunately cannot be a pioneer country, because countries such as France or Sweden are planning or have already implemented a ban on BPA. Individual EU Member States, Canada and several states in the USA consider action to be extremely necessary. I think that we should act here in line with the precautionary principle and question the existing EU directive. I think he's too high. I would like to see a real study of how much BPA affects people in daily contact, and above all what kind of impairment it brings. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I would like us to take the food packaging, for example, and say that the BPA belongs out, and in principle lower the tolerable amount of intake a little. But as I have said, evaluation work is an urgent matter at national level. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e22385	The next item is the speech by Mr Pock. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e22407	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators on ORF III and in the live stream! Estimated FPÖ! Maybe for the sake of order: It is not a agenda item for fish, but it is actually for marine mammals. For us, it was the issue in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection that we were very focused on a problem area. I would therefore also like to say a second point – which now sounds humorous, but should not be – which is another point here, the good order half: It's about the orders. The application contains the ‘species’. That would be correct the orders, the families, the genera and the species affected, and so the application should be understood. I have been assured that we do not have to make any amendment. Another point I would like to address to the FPÖ: We really hope for this six-party proposal. If you are now disrupting the word “species”, then instead we can also use the Old German word “species”, which would also be a possibility. We are actually concerned with protecting marine mammals. - So much in advance. Now, however, I would like to come to a more serious point concerning the Environment Committee, namely, Mr Brunner has already mentioned it, on the culture of the postponement. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has many different and very well prepared proposals from all six political groups. And we experience at the same time that the government parties – often also with the approval of the opposition – can decide on their applications, while the opposition's applications are now delayed regardless of the actual interpretation of the content. It would be the new style, which has often been announced, and here I appeal to the leader of the SPÖ and ÖVP groups that we should have a content. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenninger.]] I know, I know, but we haven't experienced it yet. Yes, you have announced it, and the observance of the announcement would lead to the fact that the new style is actually moving in. We do not have any action in response to the announcement. I'm alive. That means that it is now time to discuss content, and this is true not only of the government parties but also of the opposition. It would be desirable for us to discuss content, the majority will determine the result, and if the majority is against this request, it will be rejected. [[We welcome the NEOS, as well as the representatives of FPÖ and Greens.]] To the same extent, however, this also means discipline on the part of the FPÖ, the Greens, the Stronach and the NEOS teams, that, once a request has been rejected, we will also comply with a certain phase in which we do not re-submit the word-like request, because we would, of course, provoke a delay. In this sense, I would like to join the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, where we have a great working chairman, that we introduce this new style as a demonstration committee. – Thank you very much and good evening!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e22467	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Rupprechter. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e22488	Mr President. High house! It is very unfortunate that Japan is catching dolphins and they are also being killed. I can assure you, however, that my resort will continue to use every opportunity to protect all whales and dolphins. Although Japan is catching and killing dolphins in its exclusive economic zone, that is, within its sovereign rights and sovereignty, I will nevertheless express my severe rejection of this dolphin hunt to Japan on every opportunity to offer. In addition, it should not continue to be allowed to set up dolphins in Austria. I am also pleased with the recent judgment of the International Court of Justice that Japan, with its scientific whaling programme, violates a total of three provisions of the International Whaling Convention. I can assure you that Austria will continue to play an active and leading role in protecting whales and dolphins at international level, and this five-party application is a very good basis for this. – Thank you very much for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e22526	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Smoking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e22547	Mr President. Minister! I am still coming to the whales, but for the time being I would like to say to our chairman in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection that she really holds the presidency there. And to my previous speaker I would like to say, when it comes to delays, new style and so on: First of all, there is a postponement in the Rules of Procedure. Secondly, if you delay a request, no matter which committee, it does not automatically mean that the quality of the discussion in the Committee was a bad one. I do not think that this is going to be done with the new style, because we have a very constructive relationship in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and that will continue to be the case. It has nothing to do with being postponed, yes or no. I mean, it's also legitimate to ask for a delay as a party in a committee, because one still has to catch up with one or another. So that's quite legitimate. This has nothing to do with the new style. We have a good dialogue climate, and our offer is that we are always ready to talk from the ÖVP and also our minister. Now on the subject of whales. I had to smile at the beginning, too, when I had to talk about whales, dolphins and whales, but if you look at the pictures on television, how these hunts take place, how the animals are slaughtered there, then you get laughed. If these pictures were coming on TV and I was just sitting with my kids in front of the device, I would turn off immediately. As a previous speaker has already said, it is simply about the fact that, as an Austrian Parliament, there is also an international responsibility in many areas, and one example is the protection of dolphins and whales. That is why we will support this request. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e22586	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Greiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e22608	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. I refer briefly to this motion for a resolution on Bisphenol A. What is bisphenol A, called BPA? – BPA is a hormone-active carcinogen. Its health impact has now been clearly demonstrated. The European Food Safety Authority has data indicating clearly the harmful consequences. What are the consequences? – These affect metabolism, nerves, immune system, organs of heart, kidneys and, above all, reproductive organs. Which products do BPA contain? – We have already heard: in packaging materials for food, especially for baby food, in toys, in textiles. There are investigations into the fact that imports from China in particular are particularly heavily burdened, such as swimwear. And it's contained in baby drink bottles and baby items. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: In baby bottles no longer! That's already forbidden!]] What measures do we protect against this substance? What regulations already exist? – On the basis of the precautionary principle, the European Commission has prohibited the use of bisphenol A and the placing on the market of baby bottles containing BPA in the EU Member States. This ban has existed since March and June 2011. How does it look in Austria? – Austria has adopted, beyond this EU ban, a regulation that has been adopted since 1. ==References== What regulation is that? – It is a further measure that refers to intensively used baby articles, speaking bean ring and sedative cleaners. This Regulation was adopted by the Austrian Ministry of Health as a further measure How can consumers be further protected from this substance? – It is important not only to act at national level but, above all, across the EU. What does that mean? – That means we need very clear import and product rules. We have already heard, it is welcome if the daily tolerable amount of intake is reduced. However, it is important to actively support any activity that forces the use of an harmless substitute. Should it not be our goal to avoid the use of BPA by far? . In view of the fact that BPA has shown a negative impact on health, we have requested from the SPÖ Group in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to allocate this motion for a resolution to the Committee on Health and Consumer Protection, and we have agreed unanimously on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e22644	I call Mr Buchmayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e22666	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! I would also like to address the subject of bisphenol A because, I think, it documents some things very clearly. We have heard about the very widespread use of bisphenol A in the production of plastics and many products of daily needs. Furthermore, we have heard very much about the health effects. Bisphenol A is primarily one of the hormonal pollutants that can interact very negatively with our hormone budget in tiny quantities. It is also a very striking example of how little conventional risk assessment is appropriate to assess negative effects on the human organism. But it is also a good example of how important independent research is. For example, all the results of independently funded scientific research over the past five years indicate massive and widespread health risks, whereas all studies carried out by industry gave evidence. This seems to be a strong reference to corresponding lobbyism, and it is to be feared that the substance Bisphenol A becomes visible in the truest sense of the word a large-scale system error that urgently belongs to correction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e22699	As the last speaker, Mr Plessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e22720	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Minister, I would like to thank you for having found clear words here in order to increase international efforts against the catch of whales and dolphins. The fact that it is important is already seen in the communications of the media debate on the Japanese whalers, which, despite the recent judgment of the ICH last weekend, have returned to a whaling fleet. In its judgment in March 2014, the International Court of Justice granted the Australia case that the whaling fleet used financial considerations rather than purely scientific criteria. That is why it is so important to send clear signals outside with this five-party proposal – and I hope that the FPÖ will support it. In addition to holding the Japanese government on whaling, another decision has been taken three years after the devastating disaster of Fukushima by the Japanese government. It continues to rely on nuclear power, although two thirds of the population are strictly opposed. They want to continue to drive up nuclear power plants, although they have significantly increased safety requirements, after which about two thirds of existing nuclear power plants need to be separated from the grid. This is the wrong access. Austria has a clear position. We have decided on an all-party proposal in which we clearly reject nuclear power. We are for alternative energy, we are for hydropower and we are for wind power. Finally, I would like to ask the ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ for support. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e22763	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. The rapporteurs do not wish to conclude. We shall therefore vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 28: Vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 120 of the Supplements on: Whales and dolphins are a species to be protected. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of it to agree. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 21.) [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP, Greens, Team Stronach and NEOS towards FPÖ.]] Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 29: Proposal from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 121 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign. – This is also unanimously adopted. I accept Amendment No 354/A(E) to the Committee on Health. [[22:36:10]] [[30. Point]] First reading: Request by Dr. Nikolaus Scherak, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Ministry Act 1986 (203/A) [[31. Point]] First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Dr. Matthias Strolz, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Party Law (204/A) [[32. Point]] First reading: Request by Dr Nikolaus Scherak, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Foreign Employment Act (346/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e22885	The request for the implementation of first readings on agenda items 30 to 32 has been withdrawn. Therefore, these first readings do not take place. I'll make the allocations immediately. On agenda item 30: I agree with Mrs. Dr. Nikolaus Scherak, colleagues in the Federal Law, which amends the Federal Ministry Act 1986, to the Constitutional Committee. On agenda item 31: I would like to point out that Parliament's motion 204/A has been put to the vote. Dr. Strolz, colleagues in a federal law that amends the party law, to the Constitutional Committee. On agenda item 32: I agree with Mrs Nikolaus Scherak's motion for a Federal Law amending the Foreign Employment Act to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. The agenda is exhausted. [[22:37:28]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00021_d7e22957	I am still announcing that, at today's meeting, self-employed applications were submitted 390/A(E) to 411/A(E). Question No 1367/J to 1369/J has also been received. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 22.38 p.m., immediately following this meeting. This meeting is closed.
