ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e3817	Good day, ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the 16th. Meeting of the National Council, which is based on a sufficiently supported request in accordance with § 46 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure. The official protocols or the unreaded parts of the official protocols of the 12th and 13ths. Meeting of 24. ==References====External links== Meeting of 25 March 1990 On 1 February 2014 the Parliamentary Directorate remained undisputed and undisputed. As prevented, Deputies Dr. Tür, Mag. Gerstl, Dipl.-Kfm. (FH) Pfurtscheller, Mag. Hauser, Dr. Karlsböck, Neubauer, Mag. Schrangl, Mag. Aslan, Köchl, Windbüchler-Souschill, Dr. Franz, Dr. Lintl, Dr. Scherak, Dr. Walter Rosenkranzund Mag. Alm. [[10:01:03]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e3857	The Federal Chancellor has received the following letter: 'Dear Madam President! The President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with a resolution of 26. February 2014, GZ S210010/1-BEV/2014, Federal Minister without portfolio MMag. Dr. Sophie Anna Karmasin-Schaler according to Article 74(3) of the Federal Constitution Act with effect from 1. In March 2014, she was discharged by the Office and, at the same time, appointed as the Federal Minister for Families and Youth in accordance with Article 70(1) of the Federal Constitution Act. With the best greetings Werner Faymann’ The term of office shall be replaced by the
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e3891	The Federal Electoral Authority has received the notice that the Deputies are Magistrates. Laura Rudas waived her mandate. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e3909	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union has made the following communication: The Federal Minister for Europe, Integration and External Affairs Sebastian Kurz is represented by the Federal Minister for Finance Vice chancellor Dr. Michael Spindelegger. [[10:02:20]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e3946	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[10:02:32]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e4141	Mr Walser, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the written question put before the agenda was raised by Mr Dr. Walser. Walser, colleagues to the Federal Minister for Education and Women on alleged “data leak” in the BIFIE (Federal Institute for Education Research, Innovation and Development in the Austrian Schools) and reject all national and international educational standards tests. The urgent request will be made after completion of the agenda, but at the earliest three hours after the urgent request has been submitted, at the earliest at 1 p.m. [[10:03:10]] Request for a brief debate on the reply to the question 359/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e4165	Before entering the agenda, I shall inform you that the request made pursuant to Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure is to have a brief debate on the reply to Question No 374/J by Mr Mag. Beate Meinl-Reisinger, MES, colleagues on the Hypo Group Alpe-Adria (HGAA) and the "Project Galileo" by the Federal Minister for Finance. This brief debate will take place at the end of today's sitting as a matter of urgency for urgent debate on a written question. We are now going into the agenda. I announce that this meeting will be broadcast live from ORF 2 to 1 p.m. and from ORF III. Because of the short term of the convocation of today's meeting, only a sign language interpreter is available – and I thank her and congratulate her – so the session can only be partially interpreted. - I'm asking for understanding. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e4204	In accordance with § 57 para. 3 C 2 of the Rules of Procedure reached consensus on the duration and format of the debate. Accordingly, the following explanatory statement was agreed: Federal Chancellor 15 minutes, Vice Chancellor 15 minutes, then one round each with 10 minutes, at most three more speakers per group with a total speaking time of 13 minutes, thus a total of 168 minutes. The order of the speakers is: FPÖ, SPÖ, Greens, ÖVP, Stronach, NEOS. Any actual corrections will be called after the end of the debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who join him for a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[10:05:15]] Declarations by the Federal Chancellor and the Deputy Chancellor pursuant to Article 19(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on “measures relating to Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International AG”
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e4250	We now come to the statements of the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor. Following these statements, a debate will be held within the meaning of Article 81 of the Rules of Procedure in accordance with the request made by five Members. I can now give the floor to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. The speaking time is 15 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e4280	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Members of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! If a damage has been caused by the Hypo Alpe-Adria Group and is still not projectable, how much it is going to end, then it must be stated in advance that the liability of €20 billion in Carinthia at that time is the reason for these problems that we have with the Hypo Alpe-Adria. [[Abg. Kickl: The bank was already sold in the meantime, Mr. Bundeskanzler!]] The financial expert Kickl doesn't help with the investigation either. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Financial expert! You did an internship in a bank, I forgot!]] As a result, the Task Force with people who, unlike you, understand something of it, with the representatives of the National Bank, with the representatives of the Financial Market Supervision, with the representatives of the Ministry of Finance, with a number of experts who have also been involved in the working group of the Bank itself and for their numerous opinions, so the experts in our mission have been dealing with the solutions that exist. It is not possible to take over this political insanity of 20 billion at the time, without being able to serve it at all, but the experts have been working on how to reduce this damage to a bank, which in all means billions of damage to us, and not to increase it, either from the bank or from the national economy, but to keep it small. But you can't blame him! – You have to say that clearly. The question of different possibilities: How do you deal with a bank that knows that this liability exists?, the Taskforce, on our behalf, has thought through all the possibilities that have been discussed publicly, also with experts and advice from international experts, where international expertise has also been used, and they have come to a very clear view. This is a clear view: An insolvency of Carinthia would not be responsible! And I am also quite clear about saying, as Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany: You don't play with the insolvency of a federal country! Stability in our country is one of the top priorities, and we will not deliver any insolvency to the Carinthias. This does not happen in Austria – not as long as we bear the responsibility! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Having responsibility also means considering what further economic impact such a “solution” would have – in the event of insolvency as a alleged solution – under quotation marks. An insolvency of Carinthia would have a direct impact on the budget and the financial performance of Carinthia, i.e. on the benefits for citizens. This means a question of social benefits, such as heating aid, as well as housing aid. This raises questions when, on the one hand, the mass is determined, this calls into question amounts spent on investment, as well as health care. Or even better for the individual: This means thinking about a scenario where there is suddenly no more support for home help and there are people to be cared for at home and waiting for a home help that may not be possible at the time. [[Abg. Kickl: You don't believe that, you stupid!]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] All this, ladies and gentlemen, is not to do with us on the back of the Carinthians, because they did not cause it. It has not caused the citizens, it has caused the FPÖ leadership in Carinthia! [[Congratulation with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Abg. Mlinar.]] Then the wise calls come: Well, then, if this is once in insolvency proceedings, hold the Carinthian money! – Yes, but you have to say that means a liability of €13 billion at an hour, at €10 billion of it without delay, carefully checked by the Taskforce. To transfer these amounts of liability would probably be the end of a thoughtful strategy. For me, therefore, a slumbering of a bank into insolvency is irresponsible with a slender Carinthia in an insolvency, and I therefore remain clear that the stability of the country, the credit quality of Austria and the public sector in Europe, in the world can be guaranteed even in the future – from a country that enjoys the highest credit quality, because all the political leaders in the Second Republic have made sure to this day that never a federal state has become insolvent. And that also applies in the future! We'll stop that! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Mr Pirklhuber, Mr Höbart and Mr Kickl.]] For the purposes of emergency nationalisation: At that time, not only did one find the situation, as Governor Novotny has repeatedly carried out, but public speech and response to the fact that at that time there was this 20 billion € arrest, which now still accounts for 12 billion € to 13 billion euros, but the system relevance of the bank was also noted. [[Abg. Deimek: the least known!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Darabos.]] So at the time – a point to be put on the table here – the Carinthian hypo was not sold in Carinthia. [[Abg. Kickl: That's why they wouldn't have let Bavaria go!]] In other words, the security of deposit is a responsibility of the country that existed at the time. For me, therefore, a task force which we have still used for this purpose, which has put solutions on the table for us, which has observed the opinions of the counter-respects, which have also responded and acted by including everything in their considerations, is the best variant. [[Abg. Kogler: Yes, that was the mistake!]] [[Rejoicing with representatives of the FPÖ]] It has also made a clear proposal on how to deal with it in the future. It's always better for me than for your childhood actions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[The representatives of the FPÖ keep signs in the form of different silhouettes in the height with the inscription: “Taxers protect! Speculators to the cash register instead of the mass!"]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] Therefore, I am proud that so many experts have put themselves in the service of the matter, have considered all possibilities in dealing with the bank and have carefully analysed all variants and put them on the table. I therefore fully support what Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance has already put on the table publicly and thus clearly at his press conference: First of all, the decision on which way we are going has been taken. Secondly, both in the negotiations with Bavaria and in negotiations on amounts to be made by Carinthia, as well as in negotiations on the bank levy and the amounts that countries receive from the bank levy, and also on all points here in close agreement, we will try to achieve what the Task Force has proposed to us – supplemented by these proposals and contributed by those responsible in our Republic. This, ladies and gentlemen, means taking responsibility in a situation that we did not bring about, which we did not want and where every single euro we put in would be better used for something else. It is therefore necessary to clarify: The responsibility for such speculation as at the time, from you, from the FPÖ, you have to bear! And there you can keep the taferls a bit higher so you think more about you in connection with the hypo! Just show up at the hypo-responsibility that you have to carry! [[Prolonged applause with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Abg. Lightenecker.]] [[Call the FPÖ:Research Committee!]] We will be speaking and replying here in the House, as it is our duty, on the extermination society and on all its consequences. The hard work ahead of the staff of the Ministry of Finance, under the responsibility of Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance and the overall responsibility of the Government, will be a hard way. [[Abg. Kickl: You were there in prison, we were not at the emergency! That's the difference!]] We will clarify to the Austrians that these necessary amounts will also come from a bank levy, which will bring €3.5 billion per legislative period, in order to finance these amounts that are necessary. Before the election, I have given an estimate of €4 billion to €7 billion and I say that no one can say the exact amounts. I have mentioned an estimated number of €4 billion to €7 billion before the election, which could become necessary from my point of view. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler.]] I am not far away from the task force's estimates, but the exact number can only be announced in the end, averaged and then published accordingly. In view of the fact that we have to make payments, the bank levy we have jointly used plays a central role, including in the question of how this sector can contribute. Now let me advertise something where I know that we have not yet received approval from the national leaders, namely that this bank levy should actually be used as an entire amount with the share that countries receive in order to be able to finance services that are due to us to finance payments. The fact that this contribution should actually be contributed by the countries is why I promote it, because I am convinced that not only have we proved to the Carinthians that we are a country of Austria with a responsibility, but that all the federal states that are affected by possible associations of liability of the Hypo, others affected by the borrowing of loans or by bonds, and thus all the citizens of Austria have an advantage by making a decision on stability and credit quality. [[Abg. Kickl: Or ESM!]] That is why I am advocating that we should also study this together. In this sense, I would also like to thank those, including those in this House, who have called for us in this solution, whether with proposals or counter-proposals, in the discussion. However, I would ask you to contribute constructively to keeping this damage, which was caused at the time, as low as possible for the Austrians and to the fact that in Austria we do not abandon any state, no matter which, when it comes to building up this protection, which in our country is a matter of course among countrymen. Therefore, my veneration Ladies and gentlemen: It is still a hard time working out a way, but we have gone the way, the solution is on the table, and we are talking about it and answering it.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e4534	Ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to redeem you from the liberals before you drop your hands. I'm asking you to clear your signs again. [[The representatives of the FPÖ take down their signs.]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. Jarolim.]] Mr Spindelegger, also speaking at 15 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e4571	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Last Friday, I drew a final line under the chapter Hypo Alpe-Adria, by publishing the decision on the future of this bank. [[Abg. Kickl: Oh, that's it!]] [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the FPÖ]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the final point has been drawn, and now the act of settlement follows. That's the right thing to do! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] But let me return once again to time. ==References== February 2014, I made a statement here in the House on the status quo of the Hypo Alpe-Adria. At the time, I have announced that I will provide comprehensive information to the financial speakers of all political groups in the Hypo-Causa. And that's how it happened. At the beginning of last week, the Hypo Task Force presented the final report to Mr Bundeskanzler and me. At the same time, I have commissioned national and international specialists to examine several scenarios for the future of the Hypo Alpe Adria and to present a report to us. I have seen it as my duty, as Vice-President and Minister of Finance, to draw up, with the support of the best minds and the greatest possible care, the best decision for Austria and thus for taxpayers and for the business location of Austria and to make that decision. Since Friday, 14th. In March 2014, there is now clarity about the further operation in the largest banking scandal in the Second Republic. After 12 weeks of intensive work, often up to the morning hours, and after weighing all possible options, we have opted for a unit of mining of a very special kind. The basis for this decision was several alternative models. For certain models, it was considered that these can only be successfully implemented with the widest possible national shoulder clasp. Therefore, the corresponding involvement of the opposition in the direction of decision-making. Of course, I also had to take into account the definition of the coalition partner and various institutions such as the Austrian National Bank and the Financial Market Supervision. This was, of course, a decisive basis for this decision. Some experts from the economy, some scientists, parts of the media and many of the opposition have called out loud in recent weeks after a hypo insolvency. I also considered and examined insolvency with my team, because there were also serious reasons for this. And I've always said I don't want a taboo. In the end, however, the risks could not be calculated, the risks to the Republic, the risk to the Federal Republic of Carinthia, the risk to Austria's economic location, Austria's reputation on the international financial markets and the countries concerned outside Austria. It would have been an experiment of particular kind, an open-heart operation on terrain with legal new land and without the necessary instruments. This is also something that cannot be expected of the population of Austria. [[Abg. Kickl: You do this with ESM every day!]] This could have resulted in a much more expensive solution in the final effect, and therefore it was not responsible. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The hypo is now entering a new phase. The model proposed by me, by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, by the Austrian National Bank and by the Financial Market Supervisory Board for the resolution of the Hypo provides for a Bad Bank in the form of a capital company. We are sure that is the best solution for the Republic of Austria. In concrete terms, the six south-eastern European daughters of the Hypo, the SEA network, are sold as soon as possible. The remaining parts of the bank are deregulated and transferred to a private society. The final processing will be carried out by professional forces maximize and in individual parts. Ladies and gentlemen! We certainly did not make it easy and did not choose an institution solution according to the German model. This would have been a full-scale casho variant and thus the most expensive life insurance for a pleite bank. It would have entailed a maximum burden on taxpayers, i.e. the takeover of all risks of the Bank's decommissioning. In addition, the destruction of a public body would have been very slow and slow. We see the example of how it was given to us in Germany. That was therefore not an option for me. The advantages of a resolution via a limited liability company rather than a state institution are obvious. There is no blank check for the bank's organs, even for the supervision of the hypo – something that many would rightly have criticized. It is now an irrevocable part of the model proposed by Chancellor Faymann and me that the taxpayer does not remain alone at all costs. I would like to draw on the relevant stakeholders to reduce the burden on taxpayers. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] For me, three elements are indispensable: First: We will take part in the resolution costs of the venture investors. Subsidy and participation investors must make a contribution. If necessary, we also think of legal measures. Secondly, The billions of Bavaria remain in society. With this we also maintain the pressure for a general comparison with Bavaria. With all sympathy for our friends in Bavaria: it is not reasonable for Austrian taxpayers to contribute to the expenses of a Bavarian Landesbank. Thirdly, A participation of the Federal Republic of Carinthia in the settlement costs is essential; we finally saved Carinthia from insolvency. And in addition, Carinthia has also benefited from the hypo in the past. I recall the sales proceeds from the sale to the Bavarian Landesbank as well as the guarantee commissions for the country's liability which benefited only the country of Carinthia. Therefore, the country of Carinthia with this target size must contribute €500 million to the restructuring of the banking scandal. Everything else would not understand the people in Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Darmann.]] It is not possible to clean up, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, that I can write it to you very much in the main book. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I also insist that finally hard numbers come to the table before the decision on the next financial injection for the hypo is made. As long as the Board of Directors has not agreed against us in writing, there is no further money for the hypo either. Ladies and gentlemen! This banking scandal, which under the head of state Jörg Haider in Carinthia, costs the taxpayer billions. And, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, you can talk about what you want: You founded this disaster in Carinthia. You are the ones who have under your leadership a liability of € 20 billion for bonds. This is an economic insanity that carries a blue manuscript. And that must be held again! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. Darmann.]] And if you are also here in Vienna to wager such a solution and call for insolvency, just ask your party friends in Carinthia why they say the exact opposite! They say: That's the right solution! There you can see again: That's totally unbelievable what you're playing for us here! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in the past few weeks many horror figures have been mentioned by the so-called experts. Clearly now, of horror scenarios like €19 billion in costs for taxpayers, we are far away thanks to God. The Task Force expects costs for the Republic of €4 billion. However, I say openly, the exact amount can only be determined at the end of the day, when all the loans are processed, all the real estate is used up. It'll take years. But the fact is: We have improved the expert's proposals in recent weeks. In comparison to the first recommendation of the Task Force, the solution now taken will save the taxpayer ten million. The participation of Carinthians, of the Bavaria, of the subordinate believers was also a condition for me to make such a decision. Nevertheless, the mistakes of yesterday are the costs of today: Our Maastricht deficit will rise. In the 2014 budget we will have to take care of additional burdens in the federal budget. For this time I see a clear mission: It is now about fighting every euro of all those who have to make contributions. Ladies and gentlemen, I also see it as a duty of the government and Parliament to draw the right conclusions from the misbehaviour of the bank and the former national policy. For in one we are hopefully all agreed: Never let anything like that happen again! [[Abg. Kickl: It's a long time gone! You know that.]] As the Federal Government, we will therefore present to Parliament the legal framework conditions so that subsequent generations no longer have to experience such a mess. This is our responsibility, and I also expect your consent. In concrete terms, we will review the legal framework for the financial and budgetary policies of the Republic, for the federal and federal states. Never again can a federal state in Austria assume liability in this order. Austria needs uniform standards in accounting for the federal and state states, because transparency is also a command of the hour. Budget consolidation at federal and national level must be further progressed. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] The government debt of the Republic will rise to more than 80 percent of GDP by handling the hypo – a record value! And we also need to quickly launch a turnaround here. That's necessary. We must stick to the existing Stability Pact with the countries. The sanctions mechanism contained therein must not be watered down so that the budgetary consolidation objectives are also met. And last but not least, we need a uniform ban on speculation for all the federal states. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler.]] Once again I also call on all the political groups of the House – which has failed in the last period of the necessary two-thirds majority – to: Let us move this forward and let us decide! It's necessary. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I will present a comprehensive legislative package in Parliament with the Federal Government this year, and I hope you will agree. Ladies and gentlemen, since the 16th century. I am responsible for the state budget as Minister of Finance on December 2013. Last week we made the decision. In the weeks before, my team, the experts involved, and I, too, were incredibly required to make a quick and final decision in this banking scandal. We didn't make it easy, but we carefully weighed everything. We have also experienced pressure situations from politics, the economy and the media. But it is one of the highest ceilings that a solution for the hypo is brought about with utmost care. My claim was and is that this solution is realistic and feasible. With the reduction model presented to you today, I can say with full conviction: This is the best possible solution for Austria! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] In the coming weeks, in turn, with all the transparency, with the ongoing involvement of Parliament, I will present and discuss further steps with you. But we must draw a lesson from this banking scandal: That must never happen again! [[Abg. Kickl: What are you doing at European level?]] That is the conclusion that we must draw today. Thank you. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[10:33]] [[10:33:34]] Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e4755	Before we go into the debate, I announce that Members Podgorschek, Kogler, Lugar, Hable, colleagues in accordance with § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requested a Committee of Inquiry to examine political responsibility for the operations relating to the use of the Hypo Group Alpe-Adria (Hypo Investigation Committee). In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure proposed that a debate be held on this request. According to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure shall be debated and put to the vote after completion of the agenda. Mr Klubobmann. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e4788	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is already interesting how we could experience an hour of teaching history for the German Chancellor and Vice-Chancellor today, and tell stories here in full agreement until 2007 and then completely exclude the period from 2007 to 2014. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] It's really exciting, because in the years from 2007 to 2014, the major developments that we actually have to light up and investigate and where you rightly panic to vote in favour of the Investigation Committee have happened. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you, Mr Bundeskanzler, are producing yourself here today and living up to history falsification, I tell you that there is a very substantial difference, Mr Faymann. As regards the decommissioning liabilities decided in Carinthia, it must be said: By the way, these began under an ÖVP head of state, that is, Zernatto, so much just for historiography, Mr Spindelegger completely forgot, at Zernatto it started, yes, it was unfortunately continued at Haider. [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls to the ÖVP as well as calls for appeals to representatives of the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Lopatka: What does “continuation” mean?]] But who was there? – The SPÖ and ÖVP Carinthia have voted with a Hurra scream in these outlaws! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Reds and the Blacks were sitting in the Carinthian Landtag and voted with a Hurra scream. - So much for honesty. There was an absolute majority in the Carinthian Landtag at that time. SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens could have voted against outlaws. You just didn't do it. You voted in favour! And then make yourself here and say that the Haider would have the only fault where you were fellow perpetrators!Unknown term type: "%s".? That's bad what you're doing here, with all your appreciation! That is unfair, unfair and not correct. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] Then go here, Mr Bundeskanzler, and forget completely that the bank was sold and there was a majority owner with the Bavarian Landesbank, you have completely ruled out today, and completely forget the fact that under your government responsibility – there were you Federal Chancellor, Mr Faymann! – a repurchasing of a bank that should never have been bought, even should not have been given. If that hadn't happened, we'd be out of the tailor today. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But with nationalization, you have actually committed the tax financial crime to the Austrians. That's exactly what you want to cover. But that's not going on! That's not going on! There you can prevent a hundred times an investigation committee from voting a hundred times against an investigation committee. People have a feeling that something smells like buying back and therefore Bayern as majority owners, who are supposed to have done the damage of €4 billion to €12 billion in their majority responsibility only so properly, from outside of you. Yes, what is the deal with the Bavaria that you release the Bavaria from this responsibility that could never have afforded – never! – to send the bank into insolvency or indebtedness? The Minister of Finance from Bavaria said yes to the court under the proof of truth. It is therefore precisely the fact that the devil has ridden this German government to buy this bank back from Bavaria, so that the Austrians can today compensate for the damage done to two thirds by the Bayern. That's the question. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I understand that this is unpleasant, because the former Minister of Finance, who has negotiated this without lawyers, has suddenly become sick and then pumped up somewhere in a board of directors of the Raiffeisen Group. This is already unpleasant if you take the time span from 2007: Sale, then buy back the hypo from the Bayern in 2009, which no one understands and which is not to be understood at all, illuminated and then the fact that all the supervisory authorities sitting in your task force have spoken of “not distressed”. These are the same professionals you now call on at the institution solution – after good night, Austrian taxpayers! – which have completely failed in all supervisory duties! So you can only wonder! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If Mr Spindelegger then stands up and says that he has drawn a conclusion, I think that he may think that he intends to sail and drop himself as an EU Commissioner at the latest after the election to the European Parliament, and has drawn a personal conclusion for himself. [[Call the FPÖ: The liar baron!]] But I say: Good night, taxpayer!, who is now finally asked to cash out with this settlement solution. It may be a good solution for you personally, Mr Spindelegger, because then you may have some great position to expect from anyone as thank you for asking the taxpayer and not the speculators to check out, because that would have been the need for an orderly insolvency. Of course, an orderly insolvency would have made sure that at last the creditors who have speculated there, who have made profits, who have of course also known about the risk, were asked for the cash desk and must also be taxed accordingly, and also pay for their own responsibility, and not the taxpayers who can't do anything for this hypo disaster. And that is your much-conjured social justice?! After good night, social justice, when billions of gifts are ultimately given to speculators, to investors, to creditors and to the Austrian taxpayers billions of bills are paid! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you, Mr Vice-Chancellor, are talking about the largest banking scandal, then I will give you the right, but if you yourself are using this vocabulary: the largest banking scandal in the history of the Second Republic, but then you do not lose any word for the establishment of an investigation committee, then measure by two measures. And this shows that you must have a very, very bad conscience: if you are talking about the largest banking scandal, the debtors have made up for themselves, but refuse any investigation. Why? – Because you are afraid, of course, you are rightly afraid that the truth will then become visible. That's exactly what it's all about! It is clear that from the beginning of the indemnity liability to the increases, to the sale of the bank, to the purchase of the bank, to the failure to bear the responsibility over the years from 2009 to 2014, and where and by what step the actual 100% damage to the taxpayer has been done. It's all clear and researched! I say it quite openly: Unfortunately, this is a very, very cowardly solution. But unfortunately it was no other solution than to expect this establishment solution from you. In the end, you want to bury the bodies in the basement of the hypo so that you can't see what really happened there and get rid of the Austrian taxpayer. This is the cheapest solution for you and, of course, for your interests. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This reminds me of the German Chancellor Gerhard Schröder, who was ridiculed with a funny short sentence, where it has always been called: ‘Government of the bosses’. This is exactly what applies to you, Mr Faymann: Comrades of the bosses! The one who fights against the speculators, but always when it comes to the concrete decisions, does everything to serve the speculators. That's the interesting thing: Preaching water and finally drinking wine! That's exactly the cause. If you both make up and say that there must never be again, this must never happen again, never again can a federal state for banks take over a default liability, then I wonder why SPÖ, ÖVP, but also the Greens then have taken up a €65 billion bank package in the European Stability Mechanism against the voices of FPÖ. We learned from the mistakes, but you didn't! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They then make themselves up and say: No Austrian federal government must be held liable for banks. But if you think that there is a danger of driving the whole Republic of Austria with €65 billion in the direction of future state insolvency when something goes up. That's the reality. So if you already put things in the room and verbally announce, then at least you live after that! Just after that, you have to measure: that you say things that do not correspond to reality, that you put things in space and claim to take positions for which you are supposed to be, but at the end of all your decisions and voting patterns act exactly differently again. And this is what makes the citizens angry because the citizens notice that this is dishonest, unfair. You have to admit a mistake. Yes, the arrests were a mistake. The sale was right. But the buyback, for which only the SPÖ and the ÖVP are responsible, was a serious mistake. That was the most serious mistake. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Just admit that! Because this has actually shifted everything in the liability chain and, of course, Bavaria as majority owners was no longer required to save the bank at all. Otherwise they should have saved them, and they would never have been arrested. That's the cause! And you can't do that. [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] So I am very disappointed when you are finally acting as much as the relatives of the speculators, in fact doing exactly what people have rightly feared with an institution solution. That's a burden! And this, of course, is driving the Republic and our budget into a further burden. Let's be honest. Even there we are dizzyed from the front to the back: For years, the Austrian budget has been set up accordingly. [[President Prammer gives the bell sign.]] It's pretending to be all right, but in reality, we have over 90 percent of GDP in debt. There too the water stands us to the neck and it is not traded. There is nothing to be done to finally make the right decisions so that one does not enter into further indebtedness and extra burden.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e4954	Mr Klubobmann has now come to speak. Arbitrator. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e4976	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I am now a little disappointed by what I have heard, for it would have been time for Mr. Strache to come out here and simply apologize for this disaster that has been done there on behalf of the FPÖ. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: You are also one of the statesmen without need!]] What we have experienced here today is also the difference, and what we continue to experience is still the difference: The FPÖ sector is rowing up crazy, puddles up like a rumple. Why? – To distract from your own responsibility in the cause of the hypo-deaster. [[Abg. Kickl: (a Taferl entitled “Protect taxpayers! Banks to the cash register instead of the mass!” Keeping in height) That's why!]] [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: (keeping up the Taferl mentioned above) You were with the game at the emergency state!]] [[Further lively calls at the FPÖ.]] Calm down a little! This Taferl
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e5063	Mr. Klubobmann, one second! I've been very careful when Mr. Klubobmann spoke up, and I can say: Five political groups were disciplined and listened to him. This is what I now demand from the liberals of the following speakers. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] If the calls are to repeat in permanence, I will be called to order. [[Abg. Kickl: Yes, then do it!]] Mr Klubobmann Schieder, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e5102	Thank you. – A comment to the Taferl: Take it to your own party meetings, best in the Carinthian FPÖ assembly, and show it there, because there is the cause for the hypo disaster. This is the origin of the soup that the Carinthian state government then incubated us under the leadership of the liberals. [[Abg. Kickl: Incredible!]] The difference we have experienced here today is this: on the one hand, a very excited, almost nervous club boss, and on the other hand, a government that has to face up to the state responsibility. And the problem with government responsibility is: You also have to do things that are unpleasant that are bad news, where you have to explain a lot, but it's the responsibility. And that's exactly the difference: One of them is ringing around here, and the others are making decisions as to how our country can continue and should go on. It is about not allowing any more irresponsible experiments to prevent a federal state from arguing about a pleite of the bank, that the inhabitants of the federal state at one time no longer know how to proceed, that perhaps kindergartens should have been closed in Carinthia, that the sports clubs could no longer have been able to lock up. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] All these questions, health care, all that we don't want to know, how it would go, is the reason that we don't want an Austrian state to argue because the predecessor and the predecessor of today's head of state have incubated this soup here. To say it very clearly: Peter Kaiser and today's Carinthian government are not guilty of the hypo disaster! On the contrary: They're part of the solution. Debts are the predecessors! [[Abg. Strache: The emperor showed up in the country day and voted with it!]] Why is it this way? – We have a hundred processes in connection with the hypo. And Mr Martinz too has only recently been sentenced to four and a half years. [[Abg. Kickl: This is the last one to be left!]] I believe, however, that the audience is not only annoyed at the fact that the FPÖ is actually trying to distract itself from its responsibility all the time by acting so nervously, but the viewers and Austrians are also angry at what happened in Carinthia. At the same time, they want to know how it continues. That is why I would like to make it clear once again: The hypo will be a decommissioning company, the daughters of South-East Europe will be sold, and the remainder will be organised under private law, so that it can be done to reduce these burdens in the next few years and decades. Why is this the less stressful, the better solution to the pleite? – Not only because of the surprise and the uncontrollable! In order to say this to the television viewers: There is no controllable pleite! That's a word you use to act like there's a little bit of a pleite where no one hurts. [[Abg. Strache: I didn’t use the word “place ” at all! I'm talking about insolvency!]] No, Pleite means that at the end everything is slipping in the country of Carinthia and that the whole country of Carinthia is tense because of the unfortunately still existing liabilities that have been entered at that time. This is a reality that you have to look into. It is therefore necessary to find a solution to how to combine both: to reduce the burden over the next few years, but at the same time to keep creditors, participation capital drawers, Bavaria and so on, in order to get a contribution from them on the negotiating path. It is clear that all possibilities are used that it will not only be organised through the mining society but, of course, also through the creditors' money. I mentioned the hundred processes before. There are also some processes of people in progress that have even enriched themselves at the hypo, and this is important to expect, because if there are still convictions – and every lawyer assumes that there is still a wealth of convictions here – then one will see this question even more here. Let me now say something about bank insolvency: Anyone who has a bit of financial history in our country will know that. For example, the BHI bank, a Styrian bank, went bankrupt in March 1995 – on 17 March 1995. Interestingly, March – and it is still not finished until today. Such a scenario in a much higher dimension with the involvement of the whole country of Carinthia, where you don't know 20 years in the federal state of Carinthia how to proceed, you really can't answer. However, it is also important for me to stress that there will be a number of measures to be taken where the Austrian Parliament, all of us, all political groups, the finance spokespersons of all six parties must be involved here in the house. Just as the financial speakers have been informed over and over again in recent weeks, it is also important to us that this information flow to Parliament continues on all further steps, and that the necessary initiatives for laws we need, from the special law to the law on bank insolvency and budgetary law for all the federal states and for all these issues, are also sent here to the House. That is why Mr Lopatka and I have also prepared a motion for a resolution which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] After this has already been announced in the speeches today, I believe that it will succeed to take the necessary steps here in the house, that one can also say that one learns from the teachings, but for which this current federal government does not bear any responsibility, but it makes the decisions that are now necessary. Let me conclude by saying quite clearly, because it is a little too short in the political debate: Some parties stand out here and say that they now have the super solution and all the others would be cowardly. – That's what you said, Mr. Strache. I do not want to have your courage to bear the responsibility for such a disaster first, namely the complicity to sit in the same party that entered this disaster, namely the FPÖ in Carinthia under the head of state Haider and later under the head of state Dörfler, and then to stand out here and say that all others are guilty. To be honest, I do not think that – I have to be careful – is fair. [[Abg. Wöginger: He's sitting in the Federal Council now]] I think that's very unfair. - There's even one in the Federal Council. You're perfectly right. [[Abg. Strache: We are all to blame for the outlaws! For the buyback only you!]] Take the opportunity to come out here again and apologise for what you have caused: that you have brought up this hypo disaster to the Austrian taxpayer. That's what caused you to be a FPÖ in Carinthia!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e5269	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e5339	Next speaker: Mrs. Klubobfrau Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e5360	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Klubobmann Schieder, you have now appealed to the representatives of the opposition, and we should not be so upset. [[Abg. Arbitrators: I talked about the FPÖ! If you feel also addressed, that's your thing!]] I also stir up, and I have the impression that these appeals, down from the President of the Federal Republic, are so hard to understand the anger and anger of the population. But I have the impression that you really haven't understood what it's all about in the anger and anger of the people. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Mlinar.]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Right! That's how it looks!]] I met someone on the weekend, an older gentleman who said: I have experienced a lot in my life, both private and professional, but I feel as lying as never before in my entire life. That's exactly what it's all about! If you remember with which appeals you went into the election campaign, of the zero deficit there was the talk, of a rosary future for Austria, then a billion hole came, that was then gone again, and now it is again, and now the first time a decision is made, and the decision you have now made is a dramatic historical wrong decision for the Austrian population. It must be said this way: a dramatic historical misconception! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the FPÖ.]] I personally am disappointed that you, as the clubman of the SPÖ, are so opposed that we look at the phases, the different files of this drama more closely and also make an examination of the emergency nationalization, where you have also been eaten. To the whole drama: It has still been added a piece today, but it is far from the finish line. The fact that the word "stretch" can now be put into the mouth in this debate, where it is about putting a further €5 billion on taxpayers and the population, where 5 billion have already been paid, three and a half of which is cash, is truly incredible, Minister of Finance. That's really going on right now! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Incredible!]] [[Vice chancellor Spindelegger: What have you already contributed to this question? Nothing!]] Mr. Vice-Chancellor has just said: “What have you already contributed to this question?” – I refer here to the historical performance of the Greens, especially the Greens in Carinthia, also to the performance in the Banking Investigation Committee. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I'm telling you today: If the Committee of Inquiry had not been closed, we might have been able to prevent some damage. If you had let us work, you wouldn't have disabled Rolf Holub in Carinthia over years, persecuted, discredited! [[Abg. Wheeler: Green Palaver!]] We have not had any support at all in this band to save anything. We stick to our sentence: To save what is to be saved! and: To explain what is to be explained! This is our credo for the next time! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Again to the act: Of course, the free system in Carinthia was the cause, the big bang of all this damage. This was not only about the Balkan business of Hypo Alpe-Adria, but also about the question of “political banking” for Jörg Haider. That's indisputable! This ranges from Formula 1 places to the political opponent's under-pressure setting. Whoever knows the system in Carinthia can say: You can certainly talk about co-responsibleness. But the starting point was Jörg Haider and his political understanding of using the bank as banknotes. You can't deny that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Then came the next act: the emergency stateization. – I am still extremely excited about such things as the fact that investors such as Tilo Berlin and Veit Sorger cut up to €150 million with such a thing. I think this is a shame in view of the lack of prospects for the future, which we have in so many areas for the next five to ten years. Corruption eats the future. Corrupt systems eat up our room for the future. And that's the fact at this bank! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Emergency nationalization is incomprehensible and not comprehensible. Now there's the wise man. I wonder what they are going to really investigate, because to investigate under the duty of truth and then really have criminal consequences, if one does not say the truth, the untruth says that there is only in a committee of inquiry. I think that's sunny. That is why there is only one way to solve this dilemma, to clarify the responsibility – and this is a parliamentary investigation committee and no wises council in the Federal Chancellery or the Ministry of Finance! [[New condolences with the greens.]] One of the questions I often have to answer, which you may also have to answer, is: Who gets all the money now? This is actually a very simple but also a very wise question. The population is wondering: Who has gotten these €750 million that have just been transferred? Who, in fact, are the ones who have benefited from it now? We don't know much, but one thing we know with certainty: They are funds, they are international banks, also Austrian banks, they are pension funds and now also hedge funds. They are investors and probably also speculators; Speculants probably less. They now get 100 percent of everything they've ever invested in risk. And that's justice?- Oh, my God! . I am now saying it to the general public, Madam President: It's a cleaner! That's exactly that justice gap you don't even want to fight. They don't want to fight for 100 percent to get only 70 percent instead. That's what upsets people! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They had to know that it couldn't go out. It is precisely these funds, these pension funds, these international banking consortia that have issued bonds to the Hypo Alpe-Adria, so that it will then do business in the Balkans – any hotel buildings, ghost hunts, Croatian mafia – exactly they had to know in the years 2003 to 2007 that this cannot happen: the tenfold of the national budget! They're not safe! [[Abg. Pirklhuber: That's it!]] Now I am somehow arguing with the housing aid which can no longer be paid out in Carinthia, I think this is really incredible, because with the money that is put in there, you can pay up to 2,400 housing aid throughout Austria – and not only that! [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Incredible!]] [[I should like to congratulate the Greens, as well as the representatives of FPÖ and NEOS.]] I find it really absurd to talk about a “solution” here. “Solution” is a very euphemistic word in this context. It's not every solution at all times equally good. If one had chosen this establishment solution three and a half years ago, it would probably have been very, very wise to try that, but today it is a dramatic failure. “Close line” – there can be no talk of it! I find this more than polemic to argue with these scenarios now. [[Vice Chancellor Spindelegger:... which is the difference between an institution and a GesmbH!]] – You have already spoken; now I can still finish, I don’t have much time anyway. I find it very polemic to predict the world's downfall now in Carinthia, without trying to do anything, precisely with this scenario, that you might have received €3 to €4 billion from these creditors. [[Call at the ÖVP: Has happened already!]] You didn't even try! My personal, great disappointment is that a party like the SPÖ, which writes so much about justice on its flags and which always emphasizes so much, does not even try to get something out of these big investors, with these investors who are not worthy of protection. [[Abg. Lopatka: Is being done now!]] [[Abg. Kogler: Small!]] - Yes, in a very small area! In a tiny, minimal area. That's about a few hundred million euros. Also good, but it's about €4 billion! – Yes say yes [[Abg. Lopatka: “Very small!” €100 billion, “very small”!]] You're once to a tax payer that... – Yes, I'm glad about that too, and I've also noticed to the Minister of Finance that at the end he at least made the saddle, but the horse was obviously not there because this government horse does not ride out together towards insolvency solution, and that's the problem. [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] [[President Prammer gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. Kogler: Right!]] This can only be done together with great determination, and it was obviously not produced, in action unit SPÖ and ÖVP. But my great disappointment really concerns the SPÖ. [[Congratulations with the Greens as well as with representatives of FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: An insolvency would just be a fire on the ground!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: An insolvency is not a solution, that is a fire on the surface!]] I know your argument is as follows: Insolvency is a fire, so you can't work. In Wyman's opinion, it was an option to tear out at least 30 percent. So if you can predict all this 100%, I can congratulate you. You see the black scenario, the ultra-black scenario. But now the ultra-ultra-ultra-black scenario has occurred for the taxpayer. [[Abg. Arbitrators: The smaller! But it's a difference between 14 and 4!]] It is a hundred percent that everything is turned over to the taxpayers, and I do not understand why another way is not even tried. Our ideas were relatively clear and clear at the table, and they have also covered themselves with many other suggestions or overlaps, whether from the Wyman opinion or from other expertise. In the ORF, only the government experts, who are responsible for violence, were allowed to occur. There would have been another way one should at least have tried to take. What is now to be borne under the heading for the population is a perspective of lack of opportunities to reduce the lack of investment in the future, lack of investment in education, lack of care, lack of opportunities, even those with the lowest incomes. All that would have been so urgently needed politically in Austria in the coming years, namely to invest and to take wise action, all this is not possible – and this is a little more than now to polemise the housing aid in Carinthia, because there would never have been any problems in this regard.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e5734	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Lopatka is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e5755	Mr Kogler, this is exactly your choice of words and the tone you are dealing with. The Federal Government must do the opposite. It cannot deflate standard, but it has to find solutions. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: You must finally act!]] The Minister of Finance has acted very quickly. Not even 100 days in office, he decided and presented quite clearly how the hypo settlement should take place. The Minister of Finance has acted well - not hasty, but quickly and well thought-out. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: There all laugh!]] What do I mean by that? – Of course, he has seen what the Task Force has presented as a basis, but also, of course, other experts involved, both national and international. Now, what is the opposite of what you are still saying is a state-owned solution, which requires a hundred percent of Austrian taxpayers to be held liable. That's not the solution! Either you didn't understand it, or you deliberately represent it wrong, I have to tell you. [[Call the ÖVP: Probably!]] That is why I can repeat it again: The current solution is a private-law capital company, and that is the counterpart to a wholly state solution. [[Abg. Kogler: Yes, eh!]] Secondly, we have this solution... – Listen now [[Abg. Kogler: But you still pay the €12 billion!]] Please, Mr Kogler! It would be very good for you to listen once. You're talking anyway. [[Abg. Kogler: I listen to you all the time!]] – Secondly, it is in this solution that, of course, Bavaria is still involved in this GesmbH and have to make its contribution that, of course, the subordinate believers, the participation capital, must also make their contribution and – it is not easy, but it is necessary – that the country of Carinthia also has to make a substantial contribution in an order of 500 million euros. The Minister of Finance has done exactly what you demand, and he continues to do it: He fights for a fair solution, where not only the taxpayer is asked to cash. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kogler: Yes, eh! Better than the Task Force, right!]] I'm telling you, it's very interesting how Klubobmann Strache and Klubobmann's deputy Kogler reacted to what their people have done on the spot in Carinthia. Mrs. Klubobfrau Glavischnig, you have the “historical performance” – your formulation! – by Holub. Do you know what Carinthian Green Chief Rolf Holub said when this decision was presented? - And he's an expert, you're right! [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: You used to say he's a cabaretist!]] His 700-page investigative committee report, which he presented, is very interesting. After that, I will quote from this report, which Holub has presented. [[Abg. Rädler: Glavish, listen!]] What does Holub say about the current solution? “A threatening insolvency of Carinthia has been seen as positive” with the decision “rejected to this () to be particularly important”. – You say the opposite of the expert from your series you just mentioned, who, as you say, has done historical achievements! Remember your contradiction? [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Look, this obviously does not fit into the world of a Werner Kogler, who here is absolutely unqualified and condemns the Federal Government on a flat-rate basis, with a choice of words in which you also have to ask if it is appropriate. I can quote Klubobmann's deputy Kogler. He said that this federal government – look at the ladies and gentlemen! – is an ‘organised criminal gang’. [[Call the ÖVP:Saury!]] Do you know how his formulation sounded? Klubobmann Deputy Kogler said: In my opinion, the Federal Government is fulfilling the image of the crime – here the word that has also been used by Glawish – of an organized gang of criminals. – Is that the tone you want to display? Is that the contribution you want to make? – You have also taken this word into your mouth. [[Abg. Kogler: Omertà!]] This contradiction is not only found in the Greens. Of course, this contradiction can also be found at the FPÖ. I should like to mention the FPÖ Party. You remember that, Landesrat Christian Ragger! Mr. Kickl, do you know Christian Ragger? [[Abg. Kickl: We are already a step further! You can throw that away!]] Know the issue of the Freemans of Carinthia from the 14th century. March of this year? [[Abg. ==References====External links== March! We're still on! Not the old papers!]] – Four days we continue! That's not how much the FPÖ world has turned on. Yeah, that makes you very nervous now. That makes Kickl very nervous as a Carinthian. [[Abg. Kickl: Not at all!]] I'm not saving you the quote! Do you know what Landesrat Ragger sent out? Ragger wrote: The orderly handling of the hypo is the only meaningful solution. [[Abg. Kickl: That was on 14th! We've gone on.]] – Yes, that was exactly the solution we have today. [[Abg. Strache: This is not an orderly settlement!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] I repeat, so it understands Kickl. Maybe he understands! State Councillor Ragger says: The orderly handling of the hypo is the only meaningful solution. [[Abg. Höbart: But this is not an orderly settlement!]] – And you know it very well! Talk to Ragger, with your councillor, and rain Don't get up here! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Now it won't be easy for Klubobmann Street. Is today's stretch valid, or is the stretch valid in its OTS of March 2006? Do you know what he said then? – I quote: “Haider couldn’t just clean himself off and pull out of the affair, stressed straight away.” – Watch out! [[Abg. Strache: Didn't you listen to me today?]] “The bank belongs to 49.4 percent of the country Carinthia,...” – And now the rate is coming! – Mr. Strache, that was the first half sentence. [[Abg. Back then! Then she was sold!]] [[Abg. Strache: Then she was sold!]] Listen to the second half set too, now it comes: “... that also has the liability to bear if something goes wrong.” – And that’s our problem! It's gone wrong, ladies and gentlemen! It went very wrong. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Back then! But not when it's sold! She's been sold in 2007!]] We had to do so in 2009, because these liabilities increased from 4 billion in 1999 to 24.7 billion... [[Abg. That is the essential point, Mr Lopatka! You should be able to read meaningfully!]] [[Abg. Kickl: You don't even know yourself in the calendar!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] [[President Prammer gives the bell sign.]] I quote Holub from his opinion. Do you know what he's saying? This is crucial: Since 1999, this policy – which is to expand and expand – has been politically supported and forced. And you know what Haider said: As long as the country holds the majority, all the bank operations of the hypo are covered in security of bombs and, where necessary, the Carinthian taxpayers jump in. [[Abg. Strache: As long as the bank belongs to the Carinthians! She only heard the Bayern! Forget it!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Unfortunately, this has become a bomb, and the Austrian taxpayer has to jump in. All the experts thought in December 2009 that emergency nationalisation must take place because these liability were there. [[Abg. Darmann: That's not true! Look at the... from then on!]] We still have 12 billion € in liability, ladies and gentlemen! Now I tell you – you don't like to hear that – I quote again. He already asks why the financial officer Pipeenberger – also FPÖ – has resigned. He believes that this may be directly related to this scandal and to the claims of Haider that he has never interfered in the banking business. Strache continues to say that absolutely does not correspond to the truth, and he then almost prophetically means: [[Oh-Rufe at the ÖVP]] “If Haider also believes that these were ‘common banking’, it shows that he has lost any sense of reality.” [[Abg. Here we go!]] And now the keynote is coming! Strache – a prophet! “If it were customary to speculate so loosely and casually (...) million euros, there would soon be no more banks.” [[Abg. Strache: But the ÖVP was there back then, wasn't it?]] A hypo does not exist anymore, Mr. Strache! [[Abg. Strache: But you bought it back!]] Visual skills! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Here we go!]] You can't just wipe that off the table now, I'll tell you! The responsibility lies in Carinthia. [[Abg. Stefan: There is no such broadcast of the ÖVP, is there? What did the ÖVP Carinthia do back then?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] [[President Prammer gives the bell sign.]] It is a Carinthian criminal case with more than 100 procedures, with 300,000 file pages and already today with more than a dozen convictions on this Carinthian criminal case. [[Abg. Stefan: Is there not such a broadcast? Didn't they do that at the time?]] That is to explain, I am entirely of your opinion, but to this end, courts are much better called than a committee of inquiry, I tell you. It is a task of the courts to clarify this criminal case. [[Abg. Stefan: Did we only understand that? That is actually embarrassing for the ÖVP! Did we just get that? Didn't you get that?]] [[Abg. Rädler: You don't believe that!]] Second: As a politician, we now have to resolve this difficult legacy that we have been transferred as the Republic of Carinthia, and this settlement will take place. The second step, which is very important: The Federal Government is not going to the agenda. We do not need any calls from you when it comes to developing a comprehensive package so that this Haider bank can no longer be available in Austria for a second time, so that there can no longer be a second time in this Carinthian criminal case, because the reason for the fact that the money has been handled so easily here was the country's liability, as you, Mr. Strache, have actually held it in your broadcast – only now you have forgotten it. [[Abg. Stache: Luckily, because I miss the ÖVP issue at that time!]] That is why I say to you: We will present this comprehensive package with regard to banking insolvency law, transparency of public budgets and a single ban on speculation. Unfortunately, it happens every ten years that the Republic must make funds available in billions. In 2004, the last time our budget had to be corrected was requested by Eurostat. At that time, the federal government had to write 6.1 billion of loans in respect of the ÖBB. Now we also have to make billions of contributions, but the government is making it orderly! We'll leave the polemics to you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e6319	Next speaker: Ms. Club Chairman Dr. Nachbaur. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e6340	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Dear government representatives! Dear taxpayers! That there are companies in the economy that go well, and those that don't go well, that's what it is. If a company becomes insolvent, it must go into insolvency. In my opinion, market-economic insolvency would have been the right solution. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Non-functioning banks must go into insolvency, just as any other non-functioning company must go into insolvency. Why shouldn't this apply to a bank? – Not only do I ask myself that, but the citizens also ask that question. The big difference between companies and banks is that banks are supervised by law independent supervision. [[Abg. Street: They would have to go with everyone, the supervisory authorities! They should be released without notice, the supervisory authorities!]] Banks are extremely highly regulated and have to report details each month in the course of the so-called monthly card. There is no more transparent business than banks. A Director-General of a large bank said in an interview that he delivered 5,000 pages in the month. Remarkable in this context is the fact that exactly where the State has a detailed supervision, it has always happened. If you ask bank managers, they will tell you that Austrian supervision is considered one of the strictest in the world. At the same time, there is hardly any country in the world in which such tax money has flown into banks as in Austria. So something seems to be wrong here, and the point I want to make now is that the bureaucracy seems to be always losing in detail instead of focusing on the important material things. And now there are 1,000 new laws again! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] In a personal discussion with a high-level supervisory representative, we agreed that these law-enforcements and this regulatory will only be at the expense of the real economy, and as you can see, unfortunately little has been achieved in substance. With regard to insolvency rights for banks, the government argues that certain banks are just system-relevant and would result in unbearable collateral damage due to their insolvency. This is where the problem starts. Internationally, there is the discussion about too big to fail – that is, translated into German, that some banks are considered to be so large that they cannot be sent into insolvency. This has not yet been discussed in Austria. You have to think about why. Whether this is perhaps an indication that the big banks and the government seem to work together well? System-related banks obviously have a lot to talk about in Austria, and therefore our demand: There must be no more system-related banks! No bank shall be so large that the taxpayer becomes extortionable to them. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I have talked to many experts about the hypo-alpe-Adria bank, and although I am a market-liberal person, I believe it is doubtful because of this irresponsible construction of liability whether investors had actually paid in the event of insolvency, or whether they would not have sued the country of Carinthia and the Republic for so long – also due to this history of official liability, since the National Bank has issued a relatively good witness – until then probably at the end of the entire damage would only have been right again with the taxpayer. In my opinion, the Federation should never have let it see that it is responsible for the Carinthia. Every reasonable creditor would have done the same thing: to make every effort to negotiate and see if he gets anything through a partial abandonment of his claims instead of running into a huge bankruptcy. The federal government, I have always said, should have made an exchange offer, so that it would have reached a debt ratio on a cash-based basis over the maturity and interest rate, and the bank should have been sold mostly to the best private bidder. It is a pity that the proposal has not been adopted. We would have saved ourselves a lot of money. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] But after the government incomprehensiblely left the creditors in the safe faith to stand up for the country's liability anyway, now only the choice between Pest and Cholera remained. It is also argued that because of the credit quality one could not send the bank into insolvency. I do not think that this would have been as serious as the creditors understandably have emphasized over and over again. BlackRock, the world's largest asset manager, has estimated that it may be 30 basis points that would worsen the refinancing potential of the Republic, i.e. by 0.3 percent and not by 1 percent, as some black painters have claimed here in the House. By the way, the participation of creditors in bank insolvency is a normal process in the US. There have been over 3,000 banks over the last 80 years, and this has not cost taxpayers at all. So if there had not been this crazy structure of liability, which, by the way, exists throughout Europe and not only in Carinthia, and if there was also an insolvency right for local authorities, then, of course, insolvency would have been the solution – but in this case, I do not think. Because of the most murky situation, you now have to look at how to get out best, after an unexplained standstill for several years, which was actually a fire accelerator. With regard to the planned decommissioning company, the most important question is: Who's going to lead her? It will be decisive whether these will be organized in proportion to the red-black pattern or whether they will finally be used in the field of party-politically independent experts who are truly specialized in bank handling. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I am pleased that Mr Spindelegger has taken up both my idea and the idea of the other opposition parties to finally talk to Bavaria and also to call the Carinthians to account. Of course, the ‘future fund’ should relieve taxpayers, as I am with you, Dr. Spindelegger. But otherwise one can look for the problem not only in Carinthia, because until the time of the emergency stateization the Hypo Alpe-Adria was a problem of the creditors. Only after the emergency stateization by red and black did the hypo-alpe-Adria bank become a problem for taxpayers. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach, FPÖ and NEOS.]] The Bayerische Landesbank should also have been contacted by way of equity replacement law. This topic has been on the table for many years, but no one has just gone. I said in my last speech: According to „Handelsblatt“, Bavaria has already set back 1 billion in the balance sheet, which is only more to be collected. Why the credit of Bavaria has not long been converted into equity is also a question to be clarified in the Committee of Inquiry. It also needs to be clarified why you did not install a Bad Bank years ago. Why has financial minister Spindelegger just succeeded? Instead of building a bathroom bank, a task force has been set up. But there was no need for a task force at all: Ladies and gentlemen, a bank has a board of directors and a Supervisory Board. And institutions of the Board of Directors and Supervisory Board have said in interviews that this task force came, she would simply have pushed aside and made apparently decisions here. – That would be a clear violation of the share law. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach, FPÖ and NEOS.]] Political responsibility has so far been unclear. The whole chaos has begun through our typical Welsh federalism in Austria, I would mean. We need a state reform that clearly regulates competences between the federal, state and local authorities. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] In addition, we need a bank insolvency right and an insolvency right for local authorities. As far as the countries are concerned, Mr Spindelegger: Please negotiate hard! The countries should not unjustly collect a third of the bank tax, of course they should refrain from their 240 million share. As far as supervision is concerned, they must concentrate on content issues in their examinations, rather than suffocating their energy and the energy of the formalisms to be examined in detail. We have far too many and far too complicated rules, in the banking sector anyway, but this applies to the whole economy. I also demand that we finally get rid of this unfortunate pro-poor system. – An old sentence of Frank Stronach reads: The party's book must not play a role in the workplace. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and NEOS.]] And what is happening to the planned hypo-alpe-Adria-degradation company: Get party-politically completely independent experts! There must be a call for tenders, and the best banking settlement team should receive the award and be involved in the success. The issues relating to municipal credit and ÖVAG remain still open. I fear that the Hypo-Alpe-Adria bank is not the only unsuccessful banking experience of the Republic. There, even non-voting participation capital was given. There's no such thing all over the world! Mr Spindelegger, you said in your speech that liability must cease. [[President Prammer gives the bell sign.]] But the federal government is liable for about 100 billion through the Austrian control bank. You have to look at that, too. [[President Prammer gives the bell sign again.]] – Now the bell is ringing, okay, I'm coming to the end: The morale of history is quite clear: The state has lost nothing in the economy as a owner and as a manager.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e6452	Mr Klubobmann spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e6473	Madam President. Dear Government Bank! Dear citizens on the gallery and on the screens! Hypo Alpe-Adria – I believe in your good will, Minister of Finance and Federal Chancellor! I think you mean it well in the current situation. However, at this stage, according to my assessment, we are experiencing an impressive example that is not yet well done. I think you've made a wrong decision. It's wrong, it's too late and it's too expensive. [[Abg. Auer: Do you know – or do you believe it?]] – I think so, because we are kept very, very short, very brief. I'll be right there. I can't help but notice: If we are to rebuild this House soon, we should make it so that I can look at the government representatives in such discussions. That would be a big concern to me. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: Not only you, we all want that!]] – That is true of you, Mrs Glawischnig. – And I think it would also be right for us to be at the same level, the representatives of the government and the representatives of the House. We're not the subordinate part of this interplay, we're not the bundle either. We are hopefully a critical partner here – and we want to be on this issue as well. Back to my findings: Wrong, too late, too expensive. We NEOS believe that orderly insolvency would have been the better solution, of course with support from the country of Carinthia by the Republic. Of course, we would not have dropped, Mr Bundeskanzler, Carinthia, that is not what anyone wants. Solidarity with the nine federal states, of course! But you also have to take responsibility if you're building shit in a big style. And this is what happened here. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I have the impression that we're throwing €6 billion out of the window here. We would have saved 6 billion, then if we had a 30 percent haircut for creditors. This is very common in the industry. And then the 2.3 billion equity replacement at the BayernLB. There were at least two opinions which became known, which also made recommendations in this direction. There was the opposition, there were many experts who made recommendations in this direction. But you just listened to the task force. The Task Force – alternatives. [[Abg. Lopatka: That's wrong!]] - That's not wrong. Finally, you have raised up a few other options pseudoly, but we have evidence that you didn't have any other options until January, you didn't want to know anything else. And, of course, we have to see that the task force was to a great extent caught and, to a great extent, was, of course, maligned. And – then we look at SPÖ and ÖVP – of course you were highly planless. I have the impression that you made a bank national in 2009 and then have not known for four years what you are doing next. It didn't interest you either. They have not sufficiently devoted themselves to the matter either. I know, Minister of Finance, you are now coming to this hypo like the Virgin to the child. But, of course, your party cannot be released from duty. And what makes me particularly stressful is that there are very strange things here that do not explain themselves. For example, in December 2013, they have spent € 1 billion on the depreciation of assets in South-East Europe, but they have not been used for this purpose. How can it be that the State, the Republic, will grant taxpayers a billion dollars for a purpose that will not be respected? You said again last Friday, four years after you took over the ownership role, you finally want viable numbers. – We have been the owner of the Ministry of Finance for four years, and you still have no viable figures! This is distressing for me, Minister of Finance. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Interference of vice chancellor spindlelegger.]] And They have decided on a decommissioning company and say in retrospect: Now we're going to negotiate with the Bavaria. – This is highly unprofessional, of economic competence no trace! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] It is particularly disturbing for me to work with half-truths and with falsehoods. It is really some of the people in the face with untruths. I understand that in nationalization – because it was not an emergency nationalization, it was a nationalization – in 2009 the pressure was very, very high. The pressure was very, very high. [[Interference of vice chancellor spindlelegger.]] But, Minister of Finance, there are allegations here by finance ministers and also by Taskforce members that we can disprove, which simply do not vote. Three claims in the context of nationalization that do not vote: First: We didn't have time. - That's wrong. We now have written evidence – and Mr Hable will present it tomorrow – that already months before the 14th century. ==References====External links== We didn't have time – that's wrong. Secondly, We had no information. - That's wrong. This is an untruth. Why? – We also have evidence here that from August 2009, from the Oesterreichische Nationalbank, nine testers were traveling for three months – we have the names, we have the locations – in Klagenfurt, Croatia, Slovenia. And there was a test report of 135 pages. We had no information – that's wrong. [[Vice Chancellor Spindelegger: I don't know where you've got this!]] Third party untruth: We had no alternative – the great Mar. We now also have written evidence here – and the colleague Hable will present it in a press conference tomorrow – that shows us that Bavaria did not travel to Vienna in the expectation that they would transfer it to the Austrians 100 percent. Not 100 percent! The Bavaria wanted an interim solution! We even have it in writing, from the correspondence of Bavaria. We'll put this on the table tomorrow. And at some point, you've lost your nerves, you've been ill-negotiated, diletantic. [[Abg. Lopatka: Mr Strolz, we also know the Petzner estate!]] We had no time, we had no information, we had no alternatives! – These are all claims of protection from Taskforce members, from finance ministers who clearly show here that they obviously want to blur the truth. - They want to cover up. [[Abg. Fekter: Petzner, Haider, Schuster!]] [[President Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Mrs. Federal Minister A. D., I believe that the Hypo Alpe-Adria before nationalization was a tragic product of great greed, from great greed for power and for money. [[Ongoing calls and calls between ODP and FPÖ representatives.]] [[President Prammer gives the bell sign again.]] Power and money, great greed on the part of the state government and its entourage – may I advertise your attention, where are we really!Unknown term type: "%s".? That's incredible! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] That was a product of incredible greed until nationalization. I think a new stage will come with the nationalization. From there I would not say that it was a product of greed, but simply a product of dilettantism and mismanagement. You just acted without a plan. It was overwhelming to a large extent. We are now, of course, at one point, Mr Finanzminister, where I do not even know if at this point there would be any solution that would seem reasonable to the taxpayer, the taxpayer. Of course, we went far into the dirt with the cart, and now it is no longer easy to get out. But one thing's clear to me: We can now act decisively. And I am glad that you today also announce that you are finally drawing consequences, because we know – at least in some areas – what lessons we have to learn. I'm just wondering why this took four years. In any case, four points are very central, and they must be implemented in the coming weeks and months: Firstly, insolvency law for countries and communities. This is the starting point we need to use. Take the countries in charge of irresponsible high financial responsibilities and liabilities. Secondly, Finally, the debt and liability of the countries must be disclosed. Minister, you don't even need a law to do this, you can do it by directions. You just have to have the courage and determination. Professor Mayer said you could. You just have to want it. And you must also have the mumm to offer the prince of the country the forehead. Thirdly, The accounting system of the countries must be modernised and harmonised. You have announced an initiative here. That's what I'm looking forward to. But we have to do it, we have to do it firmly. Fourth: Of course, we need an investigation committee. I therefore submit the following applications to the technical details: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] Third
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e6697	Mr Klubobmann, I would ask you to have the following speakers bring you in. Your speaking time has expired.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e6712	We need a new culture of responsibility. We can start today, we just have to want.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e6745	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Strolz has properly tabled two motions for resolutions which are under negotiation. The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e6849	Next speaker: Mr Mag. DDr. Fuchs. I set the clock to the desired speaking time of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e6870	Madam President. Members of the Federal Government! High house! Seers at the visitor gallery! Unfortunately, on the night of the 13th to the 14th, the ÖVP took place. In March 2014, let SPÖ pull over the table and opted for the most optimal solution. Notable international consultants have recommended the insolvency variant as the most optimal variant for taxpayers. On the basis of the financial talks with you, Mr Vice-Chancellor, I had the impression that you too would favour an insolvency model sui generis, a so-called hybrid model. Unfortunately, the SPÖ and Novotny took a line through the bill. A Novotny who has already failed as a bank supervisor, who has missed the “not distressed” predicate in the 2008 test report, is still – as a citizen – able to demand a contribution from Carinthia. It's a cowardice. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That the snap idea with the Weisenrat as a fig leaf can only come from Novotny is no surprise. Nowotny has taken the view that the ............................................................................................................................................. He should also take this decision as an opportunity to end his activity for the National Bank. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Hagen.]] You yourself, Mr. Vice-Chancellor, stated at your press conference on Friday that you could have made an insolvency only if all the actors had taken a lead. – That was not the case according to your remarks. A possible national epaulment across all political borders would have been tangible, but was eroded by the SPÖ. It has already become increasingly apparent in the past that the banks, speculators and bond-holders are more vulnerable to SPÖs than the taxpayers. The hedge funds and speculators are pleased that their hypo shares have increased by almost 30 percent since the insolvency was rejected. Thank you, SPÖ! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For the SPÖ, it was clear from the beginning that the hyporeport of the Novotny Task Force should be implemented blindlings. The SPÖ had no interest at all in dealing with other variants that might have been cheaper for the taxpayer. I recall the statement made by Mr Ostermayer on 9 October. In March 2014, the Taskforce report was submitted to the task force for a quick completion of the task force's recommendation. A scandal is also how the Board of Management of Hypo Alpe-Adria falters the Republic. Only five days after the presentation of the Taskforce final report – i.e. March 2014 – the Board of Management and the Bank's auditors once again report state-of-the-art money requirements – this is € 1 billion – without being able to present concrete figures to the Bank. The bank's accounting must be a mess. As with the last capital injection two months ago, a so-called depreciation requirement was stated as the reason for the need for state money. I wonder, How can the same situation occur again after two months? What happened to the first billion? – This is a scandalous way of dealing with the taxpayer, who is once again presented with the billions of bills. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] At the same time, according to Novotny, the solution model now selected continues to leave a back door for insolvency. Logical. After all speculators and creditors are satisfied, the company is sent to insolvency. Why should the Bavaria agree to this procedure? And what is an insolvency to bring to the taxpayer in a few years? Mr Vice-Chancellor himself has admitted that he excludes a package of savings to vote on the billions in the short term. And what does the SPÖ say about it? – To take the hypo as a pretext for a savings package would be wrong, says the Secretary of State. The 2014 load was also a one-time effect. What do you mean, Mrs. State Secretary? – Debts remain indebted, regardless of whether they are a one-off effect or not. The objective of a structural zero deficit by 2016 is to be achieved without a savings package, according to the Secretary of State. Mrs State Secretary, I will remind you of these words. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The FPÖ is clear: We need an investigation committee. The tenacity with which the government prevents an investigation committee clearly shows its bad conscience.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e6959	I'm allowed to ask the clubmen for the following: There is indeed the Commentary version of the Rules of Procedure ‘Atzwanger/Zägernitz’. This includes a minimum list of words that deserve an order call at least. Please also give them to the new Members, otherwise I would have to use this list all the time, which I do not want to do. That's why I'm looking for you. [[Abg. Brosz: But this is not a law, the “Zehernitz”!]] Mr Kucher. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e7083	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In politics too, it is often the most difficult situations in which you can see clearly who you can rely on, who is standing by you even in stormy times and who is doing the right thing. The Austrian Federal Government has examined this hypo decision in detail, it has not made itself easy. And we all know that every euro that will cost the reprocessing of this Causa Hypo is too much and hurts us all. We would all have wished for this money many, many other measures. The effects of the insolvency of the hypo and thus of the country of Carinthia would have been dramatic for Carinthia, but also for the whole of Austria. A plot of the hypo would have meant the immediate execution of the country of Carinthia. [[Abg. Podgorschek: Who says that?]] The Kärntner Landesbudget would immediately have reduced by €1.4 billion. And that's why I honestly say: What FPÖ and Greens are demanding here today is so unimaginable that you can't paint it in the entire dimension. A mass administrator should have immediately deleted all discretionary expenditure, and many thousands of people would have been personally affected, Mr Kogler. [[Abg. Kogler: Go, please!]] [[Abg. Kogler: That doesn't even say the task force!]] Insolvency would mean the immediate cessation of economic promotion, public road construction and social housing, with dramatic consequences for the labour market. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Darmann.]] National teachers should have been dismissed, school renovations would have been stopped, thousands of jobs in the regional construction industry, and regional suppliers would have been hit hard. There would have been a closure of hospitals. Mobile care and care services should have been deleted. The high level of unemployment would have emptied the entire insolvency compensation fund of the Republic. [[Abg. Don't let the people gather you, heat you up!]] Small earners would not have received housing promotion, young teams did not promote sports and cultural initiatives no cultural promotion. [[Abg. Kogler: There is no such thing!]] Of course, the other federal states would have been affected by the liability of the Hypo-Haftungsverband. There would have been an annihilation of the last hypo potentials. Speculators and hedge funds would have enjoyed themselves first. And no matter how quickly the Republic would be able to help, the image damage and the consequences for the country of Carinthia, but also the Republic of Austria would have been massive. [[Abg. Höbart: This is a Klagenfurt carnival speech!]] That is why it is as inconceivable as it can be because of cheaper political maneuvers to play with the fears and existences of people and send a whole federal state into bankruptcy. [[Abg. Darmann: What are you doing? You're doing a horror scenario!]] So I say quite openly as a Carinthian: Mr President, Mr Faymann, Mr Vice-Chancellor, I would like to thank you and all the constructive forces involved in this solution for your commitment and sense of responsibility. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Carinthia is aware of his responsibility. If the amount of damage, the questions of settlement and the procedures are fixed, we will also make a contribution to the cleanup work. I would now like to conclude by quoting a self-proclaimed superstar of international financial policy. Unfortunately, he is not in the hall again, but I am very happy to quote Mr Strache. He knows exactly who bears the political responsibility for the hypo-slam. I quote a little bit. ‘Hypo Alpe-Adria: Haider is fully responsible. () FPÖ-BundesParteiobmann HC Strache today rejected the allegations of Kärnten's head of state Haider that he had not known anything about the speculations of Hypo Alpe-Adria. () In this context, Strache also pointed out that this bank was dealing with Haider's house bank, (...) Haider could not be so easily cleaned and pulled out of the affair, stressed Strache." [[Abg. Stefan: The emperor didn't get any of that, did he? Was the emperor there? Did that happen to the SPÖ Carinthias?]] I quote: "Even the claim of Haider that he had never interfered in the banking business does not correspond to the truth. () The responsibility, made it clear to Strache, was complete with the Landeshuptmann Haider in his capacity as a financial referent.” [[Abg. Darmann: When was that?]] [[Abg. Kickl: Date?]] Mr Strache, you are quite right: The whole hypo-miser was, is and remains a blatant scandal!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e7254	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e7275	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, there are a few things to put together, as you are sure you are right, as usually the qualified intermediates of the ÖVP. Where do you start? – First of all, I think we should not forget the motto, and there may be a meeting, even if the assessments are different: Save what can be saved! – You have chosen this way – but also: Investigate what to investigate! And do not separate this, because if you are always talking about the future, that this should never happen again, then the first and indispensable requirement for this to be examined – but not of a Whischi-Wissenrat, but of a committee of inquiry, as in every semi-developed parliamentary democracy in the world, here in the House of these Members. [[Congratulations with the Greens as well as with representatives of FPÖ, Team Stronach and NEOS.]] Take part in SPÖ and ÖVP – and no longer block the necessary, right and important! It's unbearable! Then you can focus on your calls again. But to prevent the inconsistencies here in the House from examining is excruciating and absurd! This must be written to you in the main book. But you can take part again despite my sluggishness, because it should be a lively debate. I remain at once in the relationship between Parliament and Government and then expressly address myself to the Deputy Chancellor, Minister of Finance and his proposals. Something else in this context, right at the beginning: Save what can be saved! – Yes, you may have different opinions. I also believe that what you are presenting is clearly better than what the Taskforce has recommended with its models. In fact, something happened, something smart in the small correction. However, I am not going to deal with the reigns of the Task Force in a very detailed way today – this is a special light on those consultants you have called here, because they have obviously not come to this. There at least other experts had to work around the edge so that at least the little better came out. From this point of view, therefore, they have proved themselves again with the wrong ones – and no wonder either – because captive consultants, who have failed in supervision on their part. But if that's your entire rescue art that you have here, and at the same time explain that you've always taken budgetary precautions there, and what I know is everything, then it doesn't go out anymore. I am now saving myself the qualifications, but not because of Mr. Zägernitz – who has nothing to do with us – but simply for reasons of time. Just so much: We had always pointed out in the 12th year, in the thirteenth year, by the initiative of the Green Group, but also others, that the federal financial framework is the most sacred after the financial reform we have at all. Find out your own speeches! The Holy One That Have You stepped your feet by writing in 133 million each year for the bank provision. That's absurd! We have always pointed out this. That's what you've pulled into the election campaign. You deliberately deceived the people because you already knew that at the time. In Hungary, the government has long since resigned. It has hardly been caught. You should consider that. Because you have your minimum majority here in the house – a few tickets are no longer legitimate, I tell you what it is – your majority are horrifying here. The few mandates majority you have, you would not have been able to put the cards on the table in the 12th and 13th years. We have always pointed out this! [[Congratulations with Greens and FPÖ as well as representatives of Team Stronach and NEOS.]] You covered! You've been silent! That is why, from our point of view, you are no longer legitimate. You don't have an order anymore. If you were elected now, you would have 45 or 40 percent. That's how it looks! Then – and now I come back to the point – please do not stop the investigations with your terrible majority! If correctly informed and duly chosen on this basis, you would no longer have the opportunity to block the investigations here! That's how it looks! So give the way for the investigations, and then again we will talk about the common solutions in the sense of “Save what to save! ” [[Congratulations with Greens and FPÖ as well as representatives of Team Stronach and NEOS.]] I am already with Mr. Klubobmann Lopatka, who, obviously – he has already said something, in between – has a bit misunderstood my appeal for the last time. [[Abg. Krainer:, that you do not recognize democratic results! I congratulate the new concept of democracy of the Greens!]] We remember: Confession, and so on. I don't want to repeat that. They changed sides in the confessional. You should've been confessing. Have now They move over the parishioner's wall and here hold moral sermons to those who are always on the right side, as far as the Greens, the NEOS and the Stronach team are concerned. At the FPÖ you have to research a bit historically. And now you want to explain to them how it is!Unknown term type: "%s".? That's completely absurd! At the time, they were the Secretary of State for Finance, when we inevitably imported this billion-dollar package from Bavaria. [[towards Abg. Lopatka]] And now you want to distribute censorships in here! That's incredible! [[Congratulations with the Greens as well as with representatives of FPÖ, Team Stronach and NEOS.]] [[Abg. Lopatka: Only you can! Only the greens can do that! This is the privilege of the Greens! Master Teacher!]] No, not at all! This is an open debate. We are right now, and that is why I am taking it today and here, because the government is explaining this matter back when I would not repeat it. I would no longer say ‘Omertà’, but not because Mr. Chancellor and Mr. Vice-Chancellor have made a statement, but before. It was true that Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance went on to inform the opposition in depth and sufficient detail. Although “negotiations” would be a bit exaggerating, then something else would have come out, Mr. Vice-Chancellor, another solution, but it was a correct information, up to details that were sensitive – but which were not looted out, one must also note that, anyway, I hardly know anything about it. So there's something that's changed massively. But how was the situation then? It has existed the Wyman opinion. You kept that under lock, even though the taxpayer paid it. At the end of January, Mr Vice-Chancellor said that we do not show this here, because we have a comical contract clause. The taxpayer pays, but must not see it. Here is this opinion, which was then published by NEOS. [[The speaker keeps several documents in height.]] That's why I said "Omertà". It was, of course, an over-image, yes, and I would not repeat it either, because Mr Finanzminister's information policy has changed, and this deserves recognition. [[Abg. Lopatka: Thank you, you are on the path of improvement!]] He has tried hard at all, unlike others. Perhaps you can say something about that now. He's been trying hard. However, the process was already that – it has already been drawn with the saddle –: The Minister of Finance has tried to organize and put on a saddle for the first time since then, the horse alone has been missing, because this has been done away with by the government partner under his back. This is the problem, because if you do not appear uniformly here, then you will naturally come up with a desired solution that you at least wanted to take into view when it is true, not far. We now come to the role of SPÖ in this context. Big investors, funds, banks, yes and, lately, speculators are being run, Mr Faymann! And there's nothing to do if you keep referring to the Carinthian liability. This is a difficult legal question, that is true, but the pictures that were drawn here are completely adjacent and ridiculous. I'd have looked at that. I would like to congratulate everyone who would have liked to live in this way with the country of Carinthia. But the difference between the solutions, if one had tried differently, is the: We'd never drop Carinthia. Of course we like the Carinthias. That's clear. We also have a Federal Finance Agency to do something here, with the best conditions. That should also be done more. But what is the difference in the result of a debt-cut solution or with insolvency? And the insolvency is not as chaos as you do. There is a mass administrator, and then the situation would be that the unreasonable great believers have to sit at a table with the Balkan Mafia and re-establish the money themselves. So we take the whole risk – and it will be beating! That's about a lot of billions. And if we had only organized a 70 percent debt cut, as Wyman recommended here, we would save 3.5 billion. That's no, it's not easy! [[Abg. Arbitrators: Unfortunately, it is not that simple!]] No one says that. But you don't even try it! And that's the trouble, because you always place it and write it into your basic programs: Everything for the people, nothing for the banks! – I wouldn’t put it that way myself, because I don’t think of this banking bashing. There are also better banks in Austria. You never kept it that way from the SPÖ. But when it comes to it, then you are on the sides of the banks and speculators and not on the sides of the population! That is a statement of resignation from social democracy! [[Congratulations with Greens, FPÖ, Team Stronach and NEOS.]] And then there are some misguided Carinthian delegates coming out and telling me a story that can't be so plausible. In this connection, I can also correct Rolf Holub's quote. He has never said what Mr Lopatka has said out here. He just said: Better any solution than no solution at all. And after you've slammed the four years, that's not even wrong. So, I'll finish. You could have tried something else in the balance. Don't deny that! 5 billion € have already been reduced. And now it would have been about from the next €5 to €6 billion, which are at least to be paid – don't discuss this away! – to keep at least half inside. This difference makes it: whether the big believers are now served with a further billion or whether the money would have remained with the taxpayer. That's it, not anymore, but no less! And you won't miss the investigation committee. You can put that in your hair!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e7404	Mr Kogler, I would like to give you a call for order for multiple accusations. [[Abg. Lopatka: Yes, that's just!]] [[Abg. Moser: But this is not in the “Zägernitz”!]] It's inside, don't worry! Look Please, check it out! [[Abg. Krainer: Five would have been okay for the speech!]] Mr Magnificent came to speak. Zakostelsky. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e7467	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! Dear Seers and Seers! Today's opposition debates are, in part, worrying. I think this is, in part, but it is also communication problems. Dr. Lopatka has already tried to draw the attention of the liberal clubman to how his Carinthian friends, who are a little closer to it, understand things. I would have liked to tell him again now, but unfortunately, Mr Klubobmann is not in the room now. Landesrat Ragger, for example, said: The establishment solution and the associated settlement of the Hypo Bank International is the “only meaningful solution”. However, I would have liked to have brought him another quote, because from a liberal point of view it was noted here that this quote had been so long ago, namely four days. But in today's "Press" we can also read that FPÖ State Councillor Christian Ragger says on the one hand – and that's very interesting – in retrospect, all these liabilities were a mistake, but at the same time he considers a financial contribution by the country of Carinthia not necessary. – Today’s press. In logic, ladies and gentlemen, it is really not understandable. Mrs. Klubobfrau Glavischnig, before you get out of the hall – the club people have all more important things than the hypo around the ears –... [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: I like to listen to you when it's something interesting!]] Thanks a lot! – It is not a quiz in this case, but I would like to remind you of something by asking you if you can imagine who the quote is from: “Nothing is worse than a persistent hysteria.” – No, it is not a member of a government party that has said this, but your Carinthian Landesobmann and Landesrat Holub. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] If you look at the scenario today, where we sit here, where decisions have been made, which, I think, are very important for the Republic of Austria, I think, it will be tried again to produce hysteria. In this case, however, I would say: Think of your organizations in the Federal Republic of Carinthia! There, it is obvious that an attempt has already been made to beat purely political change. I believe that this is an essential step in further development. My motto is: Take responsibility instead of polemizing. To remember this briefly: Today, some things have already been expressed at the micro level, which would have occurred in the Federal Republic of Carinthia in the event of an insolvency of the Hypo Alpe-Adria. I might go back a step further. We can already remember that the 12 billion € national liability of the country of Carinthia would have been immediately beaten. It would have immediately taken the billions of liability of the federal government for the subordinate capital. Possible nationalizations of the south-eastern European banking daughters of the Hypo Alpe-Adria have already been mediated in the room. And also as far as banking-run is concerned, it always sounds like that: well, that was in the 1920s of the last century!, but all these things are not so far away when hysteria spreads accordingly. And not to mention the loss of reputation that would have arisen for the Republic of Austria. The negative implications for the country’s reputation and the term “rating agencies” have been mentioned here again. I would like to give a small number of examples to show: You know the topic of interest payments for our national debt. With an increase of 10 basis points for our interest rate service alone, this would mean € 240 million per year. Maybe for orientation: 10 Base points mean 0.1 percentage points. Or otherwise expressed: With 40 basis points – thus still not even by half a percentage point higher costs on the interest side – this would mean that around a billion more interest would be to be paid for our Republic. Ladies and gentlemen! Whoever here thinks one should have tried the insolvency, no one has told him what the insolvency would really look like and what consequences would be associated with à la longue. The so-called controllable insolvency – which has already been addressed today – does not exist. In this sense, I hope that such views – we would have tried the insolvency! – really only come out of a certain amount of ignorance, because otherwise it would be just one, that is, irresponsible to our Republic of Austria. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to say something in agreement with Mr Krainer. In the next few weeks, we are in the process of calling for a Special Financial Committee to deal precisely with these issues. Why? . We would like to hold this once a little seminary and discuss in detail the issues, especially the economic context and the impact of insolvency, to all those who may not have had so many opportunities to deal with the issue so far. [[Abg. Rossmann: But there you need a good economic professor!]] My motto in this sense, Professor Rossmann: Tell yourself instead of polemizing. [[Abg. Stroll: These teachings do not help either!]] But now to the most important part, to the future. Clearly, the liberal disaster in Carinthia must not happen again. The ÖVP and, in particular, the Minister of Finance will shape the future. For this, it is essential to link a comprehensive package of laws. You know the topics in part: Single accounting rules for the Federal Government and countries must be implemented. Budget consolidation at federal and national level must be respected, that is, of course also on the side of the countries. A ban on speculation for all countries – we need the corresponding majority of them – is part of the federal constitution. We hope that, in this case, the opposition is so responsible not to act on the conditions under which it gives the government parties the opportunity to get a constitutional majority, but that it will go in the direction of this speculation ban. Another point: Of course, sanctions are also needed; Infringements must be met and appropriate sanctions imposed. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude with our Minister of Finance, who is in office for just 93 days – others always want a time limit of a hundred days, our Minister of Finance has added the subject of hypo a solution within 93 days – I think, on behalf of all of us, but also with the Task Force, with Mr Novotny and Mr Liebscher, who can also be shed here in order to pass on something for the good of our Republic. I can assure you, however, that Parliament, in the form of the Financial Committee, will be heavily involved. We will do everything in the Financial Committee to monitor the smooth handling of the Hypo Alpe-Adria by means of controls. My motto, ladies and gentlemen: Design the future instead of polemizing. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e7541	The next item is the report by Mr Vetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e7563	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the government! High house! My clubwoman said earlier that the most normal would be insolvency if a bank was pleading. - I can't. This is obviously feared, as the devil fears the water of consecration. And obviously there are a lot of interests everywhere that can be remembered, so that one has not considered this solution. The solution, which has been taken into account, has been described as a clear solution in today's declaration by the government. - I'm sorry I didn't understand it that way. What is really clear about this solution? I have the feeling that it's a slave-like solution that gets a little bit out of everything. On the one hand, we want to signal stability, as the government has said, which means: Financial markets, we're just standing for what happened. So this establishment solution that takes over everything doesn't come. There is some solution to this problem, with a few billion more liabilities coming out for the Republic of Austria, that is, Bad Bank. Finally, they say: It is a private economic solution. – So the private economic solution is certainly not that! It would have been insolvency. What does “private” mean here? – It is obvious that a Bad Bank is founded in the form of a GmbH. But this has nothing to do with the private sector, but it is the private legal form of settlement chosen here, which, however, has nothing to do with the private sector, where one assumes liability and the taxpayer pays billions into a decommissioning company. So, of all things a little bit, and that is why I used the word “slaveish ” earlier. The danger in the whole story is that you end up slid into a full arrest just as she took over the country of Carinthia at the time, in other words, one makes exactly the mistake one is blaming the other party, so that you have come into this whole mess. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I hope with this fear that you will ultimately make exactly the mistake that you accuse the other person, I am wrong. If you prove this to me, I'm glad because everything that doesn't go in this direction saves the taxpayer a lot of money. At present, however, we are going consistently in a direction where one billion after another comes along and the liabilities are piled up. [[Abg. Arbitrators: This is wrong!]] This, although you don't know how much you actually take over. When we hear that this solution was found from Thursday to Friday, on Saturday the government tells us that we want to know exactly how much it is, then I say that everything has nothing to do with the private economy. If I do some kind of transaction today, a M&A transaction and say, I buy something and commit myself to it, and the next day I say, I want to know what it costs, then there will be a lot of people who will probably tear my head off. So there's nothing to do with the private sector at all! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Finally, I think you've somehow become victims of your own propaganda. Just as some budgetists always only speculate and blame the financial markets, and then the trade union bank becomes the largest speculation bank, here too, the government seems to me to be the victims of its own propaganda, the bad financial markets, we have to fear and, and, finally, it is precisely those whose interest one suddenly wants to maintain by the solution one is seeking now by saying, oh, you dear financial markets, you are evil, and these are our Sunday speeches, but when it goes hard, then we say stability and serve all the debts and liabilities that have been entered. Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats and of the moderate Social Democrats! You have become victims of your own propaganda here! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. Lopatka: Stay real!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] – You know, Hayek wrote a book dedicated to “the Socialists in All Parties”. This is also dedicated to your party, I tell you! [[New condolences with the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. Lopatka: Not your party yet?]] The big mistake you make is: They scoff at capitalism everywhere and believe you must be a doctor at the hospital bed of capitalism, but with your rescue policy, with your liability policy, you are in fact the graves of the market economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e7658	The next item is the report by Mr Hable. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e7679	Mr President. Dear Members of the Government! High house! Estimated citizens in the gallery and in front of the screens! “And daily the Murmeltier greets”, you certainly know this movie. He's about a weather-tanner who's stuck in a time loop that wakes up every day at 6 o'clock in the morning and has to experience the same day again and again. Why do the current events remind me of “And daily the Murmeltier”? We had a day of decision last Friday. It was a 14th of a month, it was a hectic emergency solution after nightly negotiations, it was a decision that was presented to us as a decision without an alternative because the bankruptcy threatens. It is a decision that costs taxpayers billions. Does that seem familiar to you? .I'm telling you why this seems familiar to you. The citizens in this country, so I too woke up last Friday and thought that it can't be true that the same thing is happening again. ==References====External links== ==References== It was also a day when, after nightly negotiations, a hectic emergency solution was presented, a decision that was presented as an alternative, and a decision that cost taxpayers and taxpayers billions by the so-called emergency nationalization. Now the question is: How do we, the citizens of this nightmare, wake up again? – The answer is simple: by learning from past mistakes and making the right decisions for the future. Let's take a look at the series of mistakes that have occurred in the past! It has been tried to make a small Landesbank in Carinthia an international bank. It didn't work because she didn't have the savings deposits at all. Then you thought that if you don't have the money, then you get it on the international financial markets. And there you got it only because you had the country's grips that fire accelerators. Then a series of audit reports from the OeNB and the Court of Auditors have been disregarded. The audit competence of the Court of Auditors has been disabled, and in 2009 we – no, we have not nationalised a bank, we have made an Austrian State Bank out of a Bavarian State Bank. [[Abg. Kogler: Right! Why is that?]] Let us see how the current decision can be assessed! It is good that there is a decision at all, but it is not a solution, because a solution would be a decision that minimizes the damage. How could you have minimized the damage? – First of all, you should have taken care of an orderly course of action, and second, you should have ensured that third parties make their contribution. You didn't do both. ÖVP and SPÖ cannot agree. The first variant would have been the Bad Bank, which you had to do years ago, namely the separation of the good from the lazy apples. That would have been a solution you should have done quickly. They waited so long for the lazy apples to infect the good and a bathroom bank is no longer possible. It's too late for that. But you still had a solution on the table. The Banking Act provides that business supervisors – Mr. Vice-Chancellor – have for Polish observations from the Government Bank [[Interference of vice chancellor spindlelegger.]] You really have no reason to answer this disaster, which you also have to answer. They would have had the possibility of business supervision, which is provided for by the Banking Act. This would have been a year to negotiate with the creditors of the hypo. So the third party's contributions are no longer possible, because you no longer have any pressure in your hand – no matter what you want to tell us now. You don't have any more pressure in your hand. The Bayern and the hypo-gloubers have the sect choirs banging. Then the question is: Why are you doing that? – I am now addressing this question to the Federal Chancellor, who is gratefully back. They always say that we must not privatize profits, we must not socialize losses. What did you do? – You have made the largest privatisation program of profits in this country, and you have made the largest socialization program of losses in that country. For this, Federal Chancellor Faymann – and also your colleague Novotny in the National Bank – are solely your responsibility, because you cannot hide behind the finance ministers. The question now is: Why is it coming so far? Is that just unsocial behavior? Is that incompetence? Are there personal interests in the game? – In any case, education and transparency are necessary. That's what we wrote to NEOS on the flags. We have published the Wyman report, we will publish – Matthias Strolz has already announced it – a series of other documents relating to the so-called nationalization in 2009 and will use these trias of the excuses that the Federal Government had no time for it to have no information and that there has been no alternatives, because it is simply wrong. [[The speaker shall keep several documents up to date]] Dear Federal Government, but also dear Members of ÖVP and SPÖ! We NEOS will continue to ensure transparency with the other opposition parties. You could make it easier for us if you agreed to an investigation committee. Then we are doing this here in Parliament, just as it should be properly planned in a democracy. Today you have the opportunity to agree again. You can decide whether you are a member of this National Council or a member of the Government. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Don't judge that! That's what everyone judges for themselves!]] We hope that you will put your hands on and say that we are actually Members of this National Council and that is why we need this Committee of Inquiry. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e7761	The next item is the speech by Mr Podgorschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e7783	Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! I am very grateful to Mr. Klubobmann Lopatka for pointing out that in 2006 our partyobmann Heinz-Christian Strachedem at the time was very critical of the Carinthian head of state, and he also recognized that there were developments. [[Abg. Lopatka: Please, please!]] If you've been watching what HC Strache said, then you'll see that he's recognized these mistakes again. I remember very well when, in 2005, the ÖVP stood and tried to divide the so-called third camp into the so-called constructive forces and into the destructive forces. The Jörg Haider was constructive, the Uschi Haubner and the whole BZÖ were constructive. Yes, even a Stefan Petzner was constructive. And we sitting inside today were the evil, destructive forces. I can only say one thing: I've never been in the Porsche of a Jörg Haider. - So much for it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I then saw before with Mr Kucher that he had a photo of Mr Strache and Mr Doerfler. A little bit I'd like to explain to him the timeline: When Mr Dörfler was head of state, this bank had not been owned by the country of Carinthia for a long time, there was no way to intervene with this bank in any way. - So much for it. If you want to bring the truth, you have to stay with it. The whole thing that has been presented to us in the last few days is nothing but a kneefall in front of the speculators. That's all I can say. The financial economy wins over the taxpayer and actually shows whose interests you represent. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, what you give of yourself here is just an expression of partial amnesia. [[Abg. Lopatka: Watch out!]] They forget that since 2007 the hypo was no longer owned by the country of Carinthia, and that is constantly negated. [[Abg. Fekter: But the liability they still had!]] It is always only skinned on Carinthia and operated a bashing. [[Abg. Fekter: You sold the bank, but keep the liability!]] Do not start, Mrs Ex-Federal Minister, by saying now that this emergency was urgently necessary! – Then, please explain to me why an insolvency solution is not possible now, but would have been possible at the time, where the Bavarian Finance Minister Fahrenschon himself admitted to court, an insolvency would never have been possible and the Bayern would never have predicted Bayern. [[Abg. Fekter:! Old loads still burden us!]] But that's exactly what you don't want: You don't want an investigation committee, and that's why you're preventing it from bending and breaking. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This emergency stateization was nothing but a reverse of the liability chain, and you can't talk that away! [[Abg. Fekter: Carinthian Altlasten!]] Yes, Mr Spindelegger, I fear that this end line, which you have emphasized here today, is basically the beginning of a new martyrdom. There are enough scientists and experts who can get something out of insolvency. As far as your motion for a resolution is concerned, its text, if you read only it, is first of all quite right, but I cannot agree with it at the best if I read that the best solution is now available, and therefore we will not agree to it. I give you the right thing to say that such a thing must no longer happen – it must not happen anymore! I therefore expect all Members of this House to agree to the establishment of an investigation committee this afternoon, because it is only then that light can finally be brought into the dark, and then we know how all these operations have really been done.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e7904	The next item is the report by Mr Unterrainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e7925	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewers on the gallery and in front of the televisions! It is a shame that Mr Strache is not present today, I would have liked to say something to him. [[Deputies Kitzmüller and Gartelgruber: He's already here!]] But I would like to remind you of what you asked me the last time: We have found a solution who is responsible for the hypo-miser. There were exactly three letters at that time, namely: F, P, Ö – and that has not changed anything to this day. [[Abg. Darmann: Did you not give this speech last week?]] The calls, I would have made an IQ of 80, which Mr Strache, did not even shock me so much. He probably can't hold it better, it's his level. But what really shocked me about this statement is that in this House it is obviously enough to have an IQ of 80 to determine who is guilty of the hypo-miser, namely the FPÖ – and that is a fact! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] By the way: Quite a pity that Mr Strache was not present yesterday, as Mr Martin Schulz, the President of the European Parliament – for those who do not know; European policy is not necessarily the case of the FPÖ – a lot of things that was very interesting. Martin Schulz told about the generation of his parents that he told of a generation that, as well as in Austria, had rebuilt the country after the war, of a generation that demanded everything itself, of a generation that worked for the future of their children, which has packed and saved for prosperity. And today we are actually facing the same situation again: We need to save. Just, dear FPÖ, what for? – For our children? No, for the renovation of a bank, the Hypo Alpe Adria. Thank you, FPÖ! [[Abg. Kickl: Who prescribed this stupidity to you?]] I feel just as lying and cheating as Mrs Glavischnig, only through you, dear FPÖ. Every time we create the budget, we will be reminded that we are missing the money because you have not handled the money in Carinthia with due care because the FPÖ seems to be closer to responsibility than the person in this country because the FPÖ has provided us with the largest financial spectacle of the Second Republic. [[Abg. Gartelgruber: How was it with the Landerhaftungen in Tirol?]] We here in this house are the parachute. So don't cut the leash too! We have enough of the speculations of the FPÖ, we have enough of the experiments of the FPÖ. And I would like to remind you of one more thing: You, dear FPÖ, did not agree to the bank levy at that time. And you blame us today for protecting the speculators? - Please! [[Abg. Kickl: That's what you're doing now!]] What you want, an insolvency, is like driving a truck into a tunnel without knowing how high the tunnel is. It can go well, but it doesn't have to be good. I do not want to take responsibility for this. Is it really possible for us – that is the question – to deal with the hard-earned money of taxpayers so carelessly, that money that is actually available for our children? - I say no. [[Abg. Deimek: Explain to us once you are so smart!]] And this is also said by two people known in this House, first of all the Green Holub, who says in a press release that “a threatening insolvency of Carinthia has been averted, this is particularly important in this regard”. And who spoke of the establishment solution as a “only meaningful solution ”? – FPÖ Chief Christian Ragger. - So much for it. [[Abg. Darmann: Did your country captain agree to the country's liability or not?]] What, do you think, happens when you let the hypo go into insolvency? – I think that would be Austria, and we all know this, directly and indirectly, massively. And we're not here in the casino, we're here to take on financial responsibility. But that's something you, dear FPÖ, obviously can't. Finally, I would like to return to the speech by Martin Schulz. He said we need to save. - Yes, we have to save! Only: We must now save a bank's salvation and we cannot use the money to provide training and the future of our children. Again: Thank you, FPÖ! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e8044	The next item is Mrs Dr. Moser's speech. Still speaking time of your club: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e8066	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Yeah, it's clear: FPÖ is robbing taxpayers by double-digit billions. Clearly clear is also: The Federal Government, be it red, be it black, also takes billions of taxpayers because it has delayed because it has pushed out, because it has turned under the spell and because it is now being handled, instead of asking the speculators to pay for the cash. That would have been our starting point: We do not want to support pension funds and millionaires now. In principle, a central question, Mr Bundeskanzler, Mr Vice-Kanzler, and this central question is: Where's the control, where's the reprocessing? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] As government parties, you are right to submit a motion for a resolution which aims to be informed in a timely and comprehensive manner. Now let's decide? – By the way, we support the request, as we are seen, but consider its reasoning critically. And now, in your motion for a resolution, you would also like to have banking insolvency law, comparable transparency of public budgets and a uniform speculation ban. – We asked for that three years ago! What must be done in this country of Austria to ensure that the government bank finally comes up with such self-evident motions for resolutions, which, at last, change course, allow for control? A special chapter of control, the Investigation Committee, is still pending. The next Thursday, for the first time after, please, two years of the normal Court of Auditors' discussion of the bank package and information about the Bank package questions, part of which concerning the Hypo Alpe Adria. And when do you think the government parties were ready for us to invite people to do so? When were Are you even prepared for this to be the subject at last? – The cargo is six days old. For six days Mr. former governor of the National Bank Liebscher has been allowed to come to parliament. Two years ago, when this report was published, we called for the responsible politicians – the then Minister of Finance Pröll, the then Minister of Finance Fekter – to speak to Parliament and answer that they would ensure control in Parliament. You have rejected that to this day. Next Thursday, a first hesitant step will take: Lover's coming. I think I worked at least four weeks so he was even loaded. I mean, it's ridiculous, in principle, for 17 years I've been greeting the marmot, the marmot of failed control. Ladies and gentlemen, the Federal Chancellor and Mr Vice-Chancellor, this motion for a resolution is really a first hesitant sign. What we need here is not just a culture of responsibility, but a courage to be responsible, a courage to political responsibility! If these shards are already more or less on the ground that milk has shed, the responsibility must also be clarified – and that is the task of an investigation committee. So: Responsibility, responsibility culture and not voter displacement!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e8123	The next item is Mrs Tamandl's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e8144	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Other members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Moser has shown today how the opposition sees this, when the government in an exemplary way has the financial – yes, but you have not left any good hair on it again! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] The government, the Minister of Finance, has already several times included the financial speakers in the preparations for a resolution of the Hypo Alpe-Adria. We are bringing forward today this motion for a resolution, which concerns a timely and, indeed, intensive information from the Financial Committee. We are confessing what we have set out in the government programme, namely that such a thing must no longer happen, that we need a ban on speculation for the countries and municipalities et cetera. And in this motion for a resolution we have also come to know that we need transparency and a common form of accounting. This is also the case in the government programme, Mrs Moser. You could once also praise this approach – and not only then leave no good hair on it again. To the other opposition clubs: With Mr Strache, I have always noticed that he is turning out here and his volume is getting louder and louder towards the end of his speech; what he says is always criticism of the other, but he can never understand what is actually the truth, namely that the head of state Haider in Carinthia and the leadership of the blue-orange troop in Carinthia are those who bear the main responsibility. He has said, or I have heard here today, that no more liability can be assumed at this level since 2003. Then I ask myself, Mr Darmann: How could it happen that between 2003 and 2007, in this transitional period, which you want to point out to me all the time in an interlocutory call, the liabilities have been doubled? – This is not responsible, and Mr Strache should talk about it here. [[Abg. Darmann: Seven! 2007!]] [[Abg. Darmann: EU money? – Now we have just discussed this, and the EU has banned national liability, 2007!]] What makes me aware of the whole matter is: Why does Mr Strache make his speech and proceed? Is that so important to him what is going to be from the Hypo Alpe-Adria and how we want to deal with it? [[Abg. Darmann:... with an investigation committee! What fear does the ÖVP have of an investigation committee?]] Consciousness of responsibility looks different, and the government and government representatives show responsibility here. [[Abg. Darmann: Investigation Committee! Give an answer to this!]] What you're an opposition politician with your screams is not responsible. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Arbitrator.]] For settlement itself: Because today's criticism came and was said that the Murmeltier greets daily, be reminded that we have been discussing this matter almost at every meeting in recent weeks since the formation of government. But when it comes to responsibility and when it comes to nothing having happened, how do you explain, for example, that there was already a positive forecast in 2011 because you thought you could still clean up the company? Then how do you explain that? Now we know that it is totally unacceptable, and that is why this process has to be carried out. It is already sold by the Hypo Alpe-Adria Austria, and by 2015 all six Eastern European daughters will also be sold. This is also included in this resolution plan. And it is also foreseen in this resolution plan that the establishment for the settlement will be a company with limited liability and not a state institution and that we will very well call for the assignment of Carinthia, and not just Carinthia. Even Mr Strache has often been quoted today with a statement that someone who assumes such high liability cannot clean himself up and, of course, has to take responsibility. – Well, of course, this is not a question at all, because you have also benefited from the commissions on the side of the country. For us, however, it is also quite clear that the Bayern cannot be released from responsibility, for example as regards subordinate capital. For us the participation of risk investors is also important, that is no question at all – you simply don't want to know, you negate it quite simply – and we also stick to the fact that there must be pressure on the Bavaria as regards the general comparison. That means we want the best solution for taxpayers. Insolvency would not have been, because one could not estimate the follow-up effects to this extent. That is why this solution must be reached. They are cordially invited to be involved in the Financial Committee, the Financial Speaker Rounds. Take care of your responsibility too! We as government parties are doing this anyway.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e8236	Next item is the report by Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e8259	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! ‘Government declares the hypo by National Council.’ I repeat it again: ‘Government declares the hypo by National Council.’ For example, orf.at is superimposing its reporting on today's special meeting on Hypo Alpe-Adria. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! There's no explanation for this stuff you've done in the Causa Hypo in recent years. There is really no explanation for this, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] In any case, you can explain your actions to no one reasonable. You should inform this House and the citizens on the street about the role of Mr. Josef Pröll, ex-Secretary of State Schieder and Lopatka, ex-Finanzminister Fekter and so on. Mr. Bundeskanzler, that's where you need information. Why did you buy back the hypo from Bavaria? This question must be raised in a legitimate manner. Why did you thereby deduct the loads from Bavaria to Austria? Ladies and gentlemen, you should make this clear. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team, as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] What role did this well-known Giebelkreuz group play? Why did ex-Finance ministers rise? Just after the buyback of the Hypo Alpe-Adria really came out of politics and soon thereafter at Giebelkreuz-Raiffeisen to a salary of the x-fold of his politician, ladies and gentlemen? Why don't you want the heirs of Jörg Haider, who personally have nothing to blame for, damages, and not Pröll, Fekter, Lopatka, Arbitrator and Co? Why did you expect this hypo solution to last for four years and thus have millions of taxpayers and people's assets faded? – Questions about questions that a Hypo-U committee would raise. Ladies and gentlemen, light should be put into the dark here, and that is why I would like to give you a small help, so that you can act better later, by making the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, I can only ask you to draw the lessons from the Hypo Alpe-Adria and accept our motion for a resolution! Another thing: Mr. Vice-Chancellor, you explained earlier that you want to draw a final line under the Causa Hypo Alpe-Adria. You can only draw a final line after you have dealt with an investigation committee with the information and it has come to a conclusion. And you can draw the right end of the line if this unable government has resigned. We cops – I'm a police officer – are told that we have a certain “smell”, an instinct, if something is lazy and something stinks. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] – Ladies and gentlemen, I can hardly breathe anymore, so it smells here.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e8346	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Hagen is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e8429	Next speaker: Mrs Mlinar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e8450	Mr President. Estimated members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! Spoštovane lady in gospodje! The President of the European Parliament Martin Schulz has been quoted more often today, and because it fits so well, I am doing it now. On the occasion of yesterday's speech in the EU's main committee, he said: If people understand that speculators make huge profits in good times and in bad times the risk is passed on to taxpayers, then it is deadly. Dead for who? – Deadly at least for the foundations of the free, eco-social market economy. I would like to give this answer to the representatives of the government parties, especially the Social Democrats. As my previous speaker Rainer Hable said and clarified, privatising profits and socializing losses is something that must not exist, and something that Karl Marx has already criticized and is generally perceived as a great injustice. [[Call the SPÖ: How does it look with the hazelsteiner?]] On the sad occasion of today, that Minister Spindelegger and Mr. Federal Chancellor Faymann have now decided to install, contrary to expert opinions with a mining company, the variant that tax payers inevitably ask for to the cash register, we now submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, we need a transparent, predictable and therefore a legal insolvency right for financial institutions as a first step and for local authorities as a second step. We see this as an important and indispensable contribution to avoiding further misconceptions. Of course, as we always do in Austria, we could wait for the EU to come up with a decision and then respond to it. However, we could also take this opportunity – perhaps a novum, and we are ready to do so – to demonstrate international far-sightedness at national level by activating our own legislative competence and taking a step that could also be groundbreaking for other countries. Time is pressing, and as we know, we are facing other unforeseen challenges. One of these is the development at the Austrian Volksbanken-AG, which has already been mentioned today. Another significant challenge I call here for the time being is that we have a bank stress test before us in autumn; we should be better prepared for it. In this respect, I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to support our request. – Hvala lepa!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e8502	The motion for a resolution just tabled by Mrs Mlinar is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e8559	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Darmann. Rest of the time of your club: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e8581	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! So if you have followed today's debate closely, ladies and gentlemen, you can only be surprised at one thing, but – and that gives courage and hope to the attentive listener inside and outside this House – you will see the qualitative difference. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Eßl: That's right!]] We of the liberals have not only recognized the problem of national liability, but also criticized it, and have done so, drawing our conclusions from it, also with the ESM. Red, black and green are years after, as the government calls it, nationalization, the nationalization of a Bavarian mortgage, only once again and at the disadvantage of taxpayers here in Austria received liabilities of more than €60 billion, which can ultimately really lead to a breakdown of the Republic of Austria when they once hit. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That means you, ladies and gentlemen, and Your political groups have not drawn any lessons from the hypo-debakel. This is once again a basic answer that can be read from the question that has arisen here today in this debate. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen – and so far you have to go in your own ranks, in the discussions in the ÖVP club and in the SPÖ club; it is interesting that Klubobmann Schieder and Klubobmann Lopatka are not here right now – excuse me! [[Abg. Lopatka: (with State Secretary Danninger standing next to the government bank) What?- Oh, my God!]] Mr Lopatka is present, but behind my back: They were in every liability that the country of Carinthia has taken over internationally for the Hypo Alpe-Adria, including their political representatives, and that is the best thing about the whole story. [[Interlocutory calls by Mr Lopatka and Mr Schieder]] [[Abg. Auer: The arbitrator is there too!]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] The current head of state of Carinthia Dr. Peter Kaiser, including his deputy Gaby Schaunig and also deputy Prettner, have agreed to the country's liability for all of these personal matters, which are in office today and, politically, the highest level of responsibility in the country of Carinthia. [[Abg. Arbitrators: And who proposed it? Well, who was it? Give yourself a back, say it once!]] But you have, and that is the difference, alone, simply alone – and I emphasize this once again: alone! – the responsibility for nationalising a Bavarian mortgage, a Bavarian bank, and thus overhanging the liability to the Austrian taxpayer, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] One thing is clear: Not just our party officer H.-C. It was already known in 2006 that these national liabilities could become a problem. The country's policy was also known in 2006/2007, which is why it came to the sale of this hypo in 2007 – to a healthy Bavarian Landesbank, which was ten times the size of the hypo, which has an owner behind it, the Free State of Bavaria, which is undoubtedly one of the richest federal states in the Federal Republic of Germany. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] And you have actually managed to reverse the liability chain with nationalization to the detriment of Austrian taxpayers and finally the problems from Germany to move back from Bavaria to Austria. For this you have the sole responsibility, no greens, no blues, no NEOS, no team Stronach, whatever! [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] These were red and black alone, and therefore, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the civil and criminal responsibility, a parliamentary investigation committee must make every effort, as soon as possible, to prove to be clear and clear on white who was really the more harmful and who, finally, has the political responsibility to bear the responsibility for asking the Austrian population to the cash register. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e8710	The next item is the speech by Mr Krainer. Rest of the time of your club: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e8732	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Now, toward the end of this debate, we have to put a few things right. [[Abg. Kickl: Above all, the statements of the chancellor!]] The former Klubobmann of the Carinthian FPÖ has just told us here again that the liability chain had been reversed. In this case, the following is claimed: First, the hypo would have been arrested, second – yes, you always quote a professor, a honorary professor of the WU Vienna; I will address exactly what he says and what you do from it. [[Abg. Darmann: Wirtschaftsuniversität Wien!]] So: Hypo in the first place, in second place would be the Bavarian Landesbank, third in the Free State of Bavaria, then the Pfandbriefstelle and then the country of Carinthia. If you read exactly what the professor says, you see, he says: The Bayern are in charge of what? With equity. Have they lost their equity to 100 percent? – Yes, they lost 100 percent of their equity in the case of emergency nationalization; more than that, they still had to pay more than €800 million out of equity, which has been completely lost. [[Abg. Kickl: Step on!]] [[Abg. Darmann: Before?- Oh, my God!]] Secondly, they also had to lend over €2 billion as loans that they have not received until today. [[Abg. Darmann: What was before the nationalization?]] - So much to the Bavarian Landesbank. That is, due to the emergency stateization, it has become more expensive for Bavaria than it would have been in the event of insolvency. The second is, this professor writes, the Free State of Bavaria is liable for any guarantees. - Eh! For any guarantees he is still liable, only the Free State of Bavaria has never given a single guarantee for any mortgage bond, so he writes: any guarantees. – But there is none! If there were any before the nationalization, they would still be valid. Just as the liabilities of the Federal State of Carinthia were still valid after the sale to the Bavaria had been made. [[Abg. Darmann: Approve a Committee of Inquiry! Why are you afraid of a committee of inquiry? That's embarrassing!]] That's the problem: The liability that you as FPÖ have to bear here are to this day responsible for this debacle. That's the truth! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Test You're not always here to kind of twist the truth and tell any G's stories that have nothing to do with reality! [[Abg. Darmann: Blockade politician!]] I won't let you tell me anything about democracy! Do you know who that is? This is the clubman of the FPÖ, the 23 times, I think, has gone out of the hall so that it is not chosen. [[Abg. Darmann: That's not true at all! This is a lie!]] The majority of the parties wanted new elections, only they have always gone out of the meeting room. [[Abg. Darmann: This is a lie!]] That is the concept of democracy of the FPÖ! This is the democratic understanding of the Clubobmann of the FPÖ in Carinthia! [[Abg. Darmann: This is a lie!]] Well, I'll let you tell me something about democracy, sure enough! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] The way You understand democracy – you can't even spell it, you don't even know where it comes from! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Such a responsible policy as you have done in Carinthia – then to make yourself here and to point out to anyone with your finger, I would be ashamed in your place in the ground and the ground! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Darmann.]] When it comes to hypo, I'd go out to the cafeteria and hide somewhere so I can't be seen. [[Abg. Darmann: You've been doing this for four years.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stefan.]] And you still trust out, you come to speak, that's ridiculous! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Call to the FPÖ:Chairman Dr. Peter Kaiser! Your SPÖ head of state!]] So that we can get a little further on the question: Both Cubob woman Both Glavischnig and Mr Kogler claimed that nothing had been said before the election. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler.]] A simple Internet search: ==References== May 2013 – I now have four quotes from the Federal Chancellor, one for each month before the election – he said to the “Kurier”, which will cost us between €4 billion and €7 billion. [[Abg. Darmann: Do you know the head of state Kaiser?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stefan.]] [[Abg. Darmann: Is that a reason for withdrawal?]] ==References== In June he was still supported by Androsch, who opposed him to criticism that he mentioned these figures to the public, took protection and said that the chancellor was right to land the damage there. ==References== On July 4, he said not 4 to 7, but 3 to 7 billion – okay, little blur – and on July 30. August he said up to €7 billion. That was four weeks before the election, so don't say that the Federal Chancellor would not have said before the election what the hypo will cost! [[Abg. Kogler: I didn't say!]] [[Abg. Darmann: Do you have to resign Emperor?]] He said that publicly, almost weekly, and he also said so. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] One more issue before the election and after the election: The Greens have always said they're for a bad bank. You have not yet explained why a Bad Bank was a good solution a year ago, but today is not a good solution. [[On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats,]] You can't explain why this is supposed to be different today than a year ago, because that's pure populism you're doing here.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e9049	The next item is the speech by Mr Auer. Rest of the time of your club: 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e9070	Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Dear ladies and gentlemen here in the hall! Something about the historical awareness of the Freedom Party, which always argues, which has, so to speak, caused their cooperation and their participation in this disaster – I quote literally –: [[Abg. Stefan: Bowl! Coalition partner!]] “We will invest the lion share of hypo millions for the coming generations. In this way we act in a sustainable way in the sense of the young people of this country and show a wide view. That’s why Kärnten becomes rich.” Press release by Jörg Haider in May 2007. [[Abg. Darmann: And again all the parties were there!]] Ladies and gentlemen, how “rich” Carinthia has become, and thus Austria has become, in liability, in debt, in liabilities, we owe this to your former commander. [[Abg. Darmann: All parties were there!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stefan]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Call the FPÖ:The great friend of the ÖVP!]] Ladies and gentlemen, you should be ashamed! You should be ashamed, take note of this! One thing also surprises me: Mr Kogler, you are constantly calling for an investigative committee to be informed; either you are asking your colleague Holub to know what he or she is not capable of. [[Abg. Kickl: Or you don't know each other on the calendar!]] This colleague, Mr Holub, led two committees of inquiry, and the reports remain. [[Call the FPÖ:Stateization!]] [[Abg. Brosz: Did he get files?]] It is clear what the Quintessence of this work was. Say it openly: Your colleague Holub is not worth anything. Say it! Tell it, ladies and gentlemen, but make it up to you and don't constantly explain your wisdoms to us! [[Abg. Kogler: He didn't get any federal acts at all!]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let's hold on: Under the most difficult conditions, the most reasonable solution has been designed, and it has not been made easy. Think about what you gave of yourself six months ago! There you were 180 degrees different. Against your change of opinion, the world cup slalom is a laser beam, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e9242	The last speaker to speak was Mr Dr. Strolz. Rest of the time of your club: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e9263	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Dear citizens on the gallery, at the screens! I'm the last speaker. My big concern is that we just learn from the hypo disaster. I think that's the minimum we can do. The colossal damage is done. We will need this committee of inquiry, and it will come sometime to inform us. Solid Enlightenment is the basis to then draw appropriate lessons from it. In the meantime, we should simply be determined to bring into existence what is already clear. ==References====External links== In December 2009, he said to the media: “It was essential to avert the insolvency of the hypo-alpe-Adria bank.” We are hearing this again now, and, Federal Chancellor, you said at the time, in December 2009, that there were consequences for the future. - You didn't have enough consequences. It is important to us – I have already mentioned this – that we disclose the debt and liability. We will also take part in the ÖVP's request for this package. We do not share the reasoning you have in it, because it is not the best solution – I would like to say this for the minutes – but we are generous. We'll go with you when good ideas come. I'm asking you to put a sign, too. We're bringing in ideas today. We have brought in 70 ideas so far, and they have never been adopted by the government parties. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would like to make another request for the convening of a federalism convention. Let us make this the starting point for a real state reform! Resolution by Dr Strolz, colleagues, on the convening of a federalism convention The National Council wants to decide: The Federal Government is invited to prepare the necessary legal and administrative arrangements for the establishment of a federalism convention in accordance with the model of the Austrian Convention of XXII. This is the first time we have been able to reach a legislative period. It is intended to develop a concept for the reorganisation of federalism in Austria. In particular, it is intended to deal with the re-regulation of competences between the Federal Government and countries in legislation and enforcement and the development of the financing of the federal states, as well as the facilitation of territorial insolvencies. We can, we just have to want! The will is the mother of skill. You have to decide.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e9344	The motions for resolutions tabled by Klubobmann Dr. Strolz are sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording:
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e9454	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Schieder, Dr. Lopatka, colleagues on Hypo Alpe-Adria. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. - That's the majority. This request is therefore accepted. (E 8.) We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Strolz, colleagues on insolvency law for local authorities. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Strolz, colleagues on the adoption of a regulation pursuant to § 16 para. 1 Financial Constitution Act. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Nachbaur, ladies and gentlemen, on the tax protection package: Lessons from the Causa Hypo Alpe-Adria. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strolz, colleagues, on the introduction of a modern banking insolvency or rehabilitation right. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. This request is also rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strolz, colleagues, on the disclosure of all the debt and liability of the countries. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. [[Abg. Darmann: How can you be against it?]] Finally, we come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Strolz, ladies and gentlemen, on the convening of a federalism convention. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. The agenda is exhausted. [[13:01:09]] Request by Dr. Harald Walser, colleagues to the Federal Minister for Education and Women on alleged “data leak” at BIFIE (Federal Institute for Education Research, Innovation and Development in the Austrian Schools) and rejection of all national and international educational standards (1055/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e9561	We arrive at urgent procedure for the written question 1055/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e9969	I give Mr. Dr. Walser as the first questioner on the grounds of the question referred for a preliminary ruling pursuant to § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e9992	Mr President. I assume that it is only a few seconds before the Minister also appears. - She's here, thank you. [[Federal Minister Heinisch-Hosek: Sorry!]] Mrs Minister, I welcome you! High house! It may surprise some that we are turning to one for many but a little dry matter today, namely investigations, testing, evaluations, standard tests, in particular the PISA test, and so on. The starting point is the so-called data leak scandal at BIFIE, starting point are uncertainties, which leads to the handling of data. Let me start with a central sentence. The central sentence in this context is: There's no data leak at BIFIE! What we have experienced in the last few weeks is hysteria, a hysteria, Mrs. Minister, who unfortunately was very actively shocked by your side. It is insecure, it is a deterioration of an institution, namely the BIFIE – an institution for which we have very many proposals for reform, which we have also sent to you in recent weeks, an institution which, however, is essentially a necessity. We should remember for a moment: There has been an argument, there has been evidence in the BIFIE, from the environment of BIFIE, indications that there is a data leak. That was in December. The starting point was Zoe solutions in Klagenfurt, which managed data on behalf of the BIFIE and was disputed with the BIFIE. This data was finally given to a subsidiary of Kapsch, Romania, and landed there on a test server – no longer. Data should have been accessible from this test server. However and in any form, I do not want to go into it in detail now. But data is important for us. We need data about our school system, we need data on how it really looks in Austria. Let's blend back to the year 2000, when it was the first time that we were equipped in Austria with truly stable data on the knowledge of our children! That was dramatic when you remember. That was the time of the first PISA shock. The only thing with which Austria has comforted itself: We're even better than the Germans!, that's what it was then. Then, a year later, when you thought about it, you realized that unfortunately that didn't agree either. And since then it has gradually become worse. PISA, however, is only part of what the BIFIE is doing. There is also the TIMSS study, there is the PIRLS study, the standard checks are carried out by the BIFIE, now also the central matura, if this is not then stopped by you, Mrs. Minister. PISA has somehow opened our eyes. PISA results do not say anything about our education system, but they show quite clearly how it is about the reading skills of students, as it is about linguistic competence, to the mathematical, to the natural sciences. Education goes beyond what we all know, and we also do not want to reduce our school system to this fact-finding knowledge or to these competences, but we do want a system of education from which emancipated, self-confident young people emerge, but this one important point, of course, also needs it. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] That children can read and write if they have been in school for nine years, that should actually be a matter of course – but it is not, as we know since PISA 2000. What does the situation look like today? Why would it be so dramatic if you were really aware of your announcement, which you repeated last Sunday? Let us look at the central project of the last government, also red and black, namely the New Middle School! I can still remember very well the teaching committee at the time when you decided against our bitter resistance by your majority. Mrs. Schmied then spoke of a century law. What is it like with this century law today, what are the facts today? – Today, the “Kurier” reports that, unlike the former primary school students, students from the New Middle School are not even admitted to the AHS-long forms that they can no longer even switch to the AHS-long form. You will see – and we have pointed out this in the decision-making process – that will become even more dramatic. The background? – The AHS directors doubt the competence of the students, and because of the latest standard reviews, they are quite right to doubt this. We would like to have an evaluation of what you did then. Imagine, today, students of the third, fourth classes have New middle school seven grades! There are no longer the grades 1 to 5, now it needs for the New Middle School 1 to 7. This is still known by the few teachers who will receive these testimonies in the future and will no longer recognize themselves. How clear is a threesome? A threesome in one case is worse than a four in the other case? This is what you explain to the teachers who have to do differently than to deal with the mistakes and confusions of Austrian education policy! As it does, I would have liked to have evaluated very well and very much, but that will no longer be possible. I would also like to evaluate the timing of how this really develops with the skills of the students who are in the New Middle School, whether that is true, what one hears from the schools: that the system with the second teachers does not work at all due to lack of preparation, that the second teacher/second teacher is very often sitting in the final row, at best looking after the so-called annoying students, but does not do what would require real, modern team teaching. We need evidence-based education policy – the favorite word of the former Minister of Education Schmied – we need facts about our education system. We need longitudinal cuts so that we can intervene politically as well. Only yesterday did the statistician at the University of Vienna, Mr Erich Neuwirth, point this out. The Party Secretary of the SPÖ criticized me for making a comparison with the Hypo Alpe-Adria. Let me briefly explain how this comparison has come about. Similar to the Hypo Alpe-Adria, you also refuse the facts in this case, as in the case of the Hypo Alpe-Adria, it has been clear for years what to do. And like the Hypo Alpe-Adria, that's gonna cost us billions. An example of this: Education economists – in Austria, unfortunately, there is no one chair for education economics – have calculated that the so-called early-school readers, i.e. those who no longer have further education, cost the State between €350 and €400 000 in a row, through social assistance contributions, unemployment benefits, if they find work in between, on the higher rate of crime that needs to be included, on prison stays and so on. Education economists say €350. Currently we produce 8,000 to 10,000 early school readers per year in Austria. 8,000 to 10,000! Multiply this number once, then you'll be amazed because the Hypo Alpe-Adria fades! So, we also need this for economic reasons, but not only for economic reasons. Mrs Minister, you did not bring about this crisis immediately, you were only in office and dignity for two days when this data leak occurred. What we create is crisis management – which, by the way, does not even deserve that name – which then took place. Instead of relieving this problem, instead of looking for constructive solutions, you have still poured oil into the fire and dramatized the whole matter much too much. [[Congratulations on the Greens as well as on representatives of the ÖVP.]] Unfortunately, I cannot spare you a few examples. Among the critics who did not understand the end of the Pisa tests, the end of the standard tests et cetera, are your colleagues on the government bank. Reinhold Mitterlehner, for example, Johanna Mikl- Leitner, Mrs. Federal Minister Karmasin, they all regret the end of the Pisa testing and point to the dramatic consequences. That's supposed to make you think! It is my knowledge and it has not been customary in the past, either, for one to distance himself so clearly and clearly from a colleague. The President of the Austrian Chamber of Commerce literally speaks of a “blamage” and fears behind the decision of the Minister of Education – I quote – “seems to say that the calculation of control of education standards was also not particularly pleasing, since the PISA results for Austria were not particularly satisfactory”. – So far as Christoph Leitl, also one who should be d’accord with this government. What the Upper Austrian educational councillor Doris Hummer said, you still have in your ears. She wants to carry out these tests, she knows how important that is. I am excited how the Upper Austrian ÖVP delegates will react, whether they will strengthen their country councillor in this regard or whether they will agree to the choir that we don't need Pisa anymore. Mrs. Minister, you have even managed – and I believe that this is rare in connection with Austrian education policy – to stir up international upsight. This is rarely the case in a positive way, but unfortunately this time it is not, this time in a negative way. Andreas Schleicher, the Pisa coordinator in Paris, has made a head-shaking statement, and also the head of the global Pisa test, Mrs Barbara Ischinger, says – and it would interest me, we have included in our request what you have to say about it –: “We are in contact with Vienna. And it is assumed that you can fix all the problems that are currently happening in good time so that the PISA test 2015 can also be carried out in Austria.” – This is what the boss of the Pisa tests says worldwide. And you tell us you can't do that anymore!Unknown term type: "%s".? So I can only shake my head. For all the data protectors who are concerned, I think I may mention one that is unwarranted in this regard: Hans Sager, Obmann of the Arge Data. Saying that your decision is – literally – “happy”, your argument with data security is – in turn, literally – a “bad argument”. Mrs Minister, I'm going to stop this list, just so much: Austria, international tremors about what you've been doing here, and headaches about what damage could still be done. Now, Mrs. Minister, it's going to be particularly exciting, because experts say – and I have an opinion – that you are not at all entitled to give instructions in this direction, that you are not at all entitled to cancel testing on the baby. The bifie law of 2008 – that is what it says – does not permit any ministerial instructions. Background: The baby is a legal person public law, the baby is an institution that is by the way even registered in the company's book, it has three organs, and the ministry and you as a person and as a function holder do not appear there. There is the Executive Board, the Supervisory Board and a Advisory Board. The Minister has many tasks, which are explained in § 24 Z 3. This is about the approval of the Institute's regulations, about business concepts, about the appointment of directors, and there is a supervisory duty to be exercised. But we are not talking about instructions here, Mrs Minister. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would ask you to take this seriously, and I would also point out to the directors of the baby that they are not authorized to accept your instructions. This is clearly illegal. In the future, we will pay very close attention to how and by whom instructions are operated. I think the problem is very far-reaching, and we built a golden bridge to you two weeks ago with our proposals for a reorganisation of the baby. At the time, I pointed out to you that it is not a matter of continuing as before, and that the tasks of the baby are shared from our point of view, namely, in the field of certification, say: the implementation of the new maturity test, possibly – and to that end there are proposals – of a medium-sized maturity, whatever. They're high-end tasks. The Matura is a state audit that cannot be carried out by an outsourced institute. So, as a point, it's quite clear: We need our own certification institution. Secondly, it obviously needs the evaluation, whether Pisa, Pirls or whatever. This evaluation will be continued, which has already been concentrated at the Salzburg site. Moreover, for us Greens, it would be very important to grant the data management externally to ensure data security. Then we have no data problem. Today, for example, we are able to anonymize student-tribal data on statistics in Austria, ensure anonymization, and then subsequently make this data available to scientific research. This would be an additional benefit, namely the fact that we can evaluate the data not only in one place, at the bifie, but that all interested researchers can rely on it. That is, please, the essential feature of science: that everyone who is capable of doing so can deal with it and that we have not monopolistized this story. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mayer.]] Mr Mayer, you want to make this information available after a year. You can talk to us about everything, but what is happening right now is not the provision of those data that scientific research needs. All universities in Austria complain about this. Ladies and gentlemen, let me conclude! We have made a lot of proposals for the bifie reform. We hope that you will, in part, discuss with us about the fact that we are really seriously discussing this in the committees. Mrs Minister, please also show us today that we can also put into the plenary session those discussions which we usually hold in the teaching committee very objectively. Test To give you concrete answers to specific questions! Not only Parliament, but also the public, has a right to receive these concrete answers. The APA has written today in a preliminary report on this urgent request, the Greens give up in their request on every polemic. I ask you: Take this seriously! I ask you: Answer specifically and clearly, and give us answers to the many – I think there are now 55 – burning questions that the Austrians are interested in! I have received many e-mails – I am no longer going to present them today – in which teachers who are really desperate because they have been working on this comparability for many years write: It's gone, the comparability! It's gone, the objectivity of the tests! Away is the scientific claim to design school in time, and so on. Mrs Minister, I would like to make this available to you. I'm looking forward to your answers. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] Speaking of joy: Our former German spokesman Alexander Van der Bellen would like to quote the Baden-Württemberg Prime Minister Winfried Kretschmann: “Politics don’t have to be fun, they have to make sense.” I hope your answers make sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e10079	To answer the question, Mrs Federal Minister for Education and Women Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek spoke. Mrs Bundesminister, your speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e10103	Mr President. High house! I am pleased that I can repeatedly make a reference to a subject that I also do not like. It is not gratifying that Austria will not participate in an international comparison test next year. But today, for a repeated time – not only in the education committee that we had in common, not only in the Federal Council, where I answered a urgent request on this subject, not only in the “press hour” where I explained the Causa – let me take a position and make the reasons for that which prompted me to act quickly in an area that is one of the highest goods, namely personal data that are protected. Also encrypted data are personal data, including context questionnaires related to PISA, contain personal data, but later on. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] At the beginning, I would like to start by saying that education policy in Austria has developed rapidly in recent years, which does not mean that everything has been achieved and we can rest. Education policy takes place every day in children's cribs, in kindergartens, in public schools, in special schools, in special educational centres, in primary schools, in new secondary schools, in AHS, in middle and higher schools, in many special schools we have, at universities and in adult education. This can be seen in the international comparison, ladies and gentlemen. In Austria, we are rightly proud of our skilled workers, our academics, the people, the men and women who work in science, with whom we can also measure ourselves internationally, where we are quite sure that the world will be inspired by what we can be proud of. The educational reforms of recent years at a really big pace have now been suspended for once by an event that we all did not wish for. We are not taking part in an international comparative study of the 15-year-olds on natural sciences, which is next year, because something has happened. I would also like to say once again what causes me to act quickly, responsibly, in which I will also remain – this is not only here in advance, but it is also repeated. Next year, this is my responsibility, we will not be able to participate in the PISA test because since this week the mathematics test for the Kleine TIMESS and from April and May the preliminary test for PISA should take place, but it is not guaranteed that the very long prepared data that lies with the educational research institute – we decided to switch to electronic testing more than a year ago, which was still my predecessor – is so sure that we will cut them, as many times as we wish, with other institutes. [[Abg. Kogler: Why?]] That means that it is involuntary, not a question, but necessary, because I see myself primarily responsible for the data of the students, the teachers, and now there is this huge data problem. It's just a little talk, but I won't let that happen. They all remember, ladies and gentlemen, how many weeks ago the accusation stood in the room, up to withdrawal requests that this data would not have been handled with care. There is now a response from the Minister responsible, namely that we will not participate in this international comparison study once. This does not mean that we will not be able to participate in the next international comparison study in 2018 – and that is what I wish and will be working on. This does not mean that we cannot continue this year's educational standards for German, fourth grade folk school, and German, eighth school level, if the major data review – I come to the answer to the questions – will be completed. Because the first is that this does not go from today to tomorrow, and the second is also a registered one, and that it must also be done properly from the cooperation, from the contract agreement, is probably obvious. It takes his time, and that's exactly what prevents the field testing. This would also not justify a shift, because the major review is expected to be completed by the end of the year, and it would be too late for any shifts. That is to say, I see myself as a lawyer of the students; and you must understand that there is no need to hold back responsibility here and that this consistent action in this case is neither overhasty nor irrantious, but on the contrary is very responsible, namely, with the upholstery, that nothing will happen if we cannot, admittedly involuntarily, carry out this testing. The fact that we want to make international comparisons is still out of question for me. That's what we've done in the past. International comparisons also help to develop their own education system within the country. That's important. But we also have good instruments that can help us now, which tell us – with regard to the culture of feedback, the quality of the school that can be developed here – that we will not be able to fall back by this one-time suspension of this test, but we can do well to work out what we already know. I mean our knowledge of our school locations, the regions in which our children live, about the federal states, about the differences in the origin of the children. These comparisons, which we have started to initiate a number of years ago, and which we also want to continue, help us to develop educational reforms in Austria where we need them in particular. Unfortunately, in recent weeks it has been far too little opportunity to talk about it, that we really want to start with our little ones, that we want to develop well with the little ones in order to be able to reduce the number of early-school readers who have already been mentioned today, this number, which is too high for all of us here in the House. It is precisely the entry into the education system, which has a good development as a prerequisite. This is one of the projects that I would like to further develop this year: a good transition from elementary education, from kindergarten to folk school; a gentle transition with many priorities such as language promotion, but also the overall development of children – not only focusing on one area, that would be too short – so that children can spend well these first four years of a basic level, which is divided into basic levels 1 and 2 and then the transition, the transition into another school system with 10 years of age. I mean the transition into different forms. This is likely to remain the same for some time, namely on the one hand, the New Secondary School and on the other hand, the Higher General Education School. At the age of 15 it can be too late, even the past Pisa tests have shown. We know that we need to catch up. We also need and will work on this so that we do not lose too many young people, not at all, at the second interface after the end of the school obligation. I believe that it is generally important to say about our education system that it has already made us competitive and capable in the international comparison. And next year we just, and this has been agreed with the Directors of the Education Research Institute, imposed a test stop so that we can get into a good rhythm. I would also like to lose one word or another in general to be tested. It's not just the international tests we're taking. They are also national desires. There are, for example, universities looking for schools so that comparison studies can be carried out, tests from individual federal states in which this, that or another third, is to be asked by the students. I now know, and you may also know, much too many examples of e-mails, letters and messages that we get where people think it is actually not very useful to prepare themselves from one test to the other, but also the in between is important and exactly the in between is far too short. Therefore, this involuntary stop will also open up a debate for us next year; not that we should no longer undergo these tests. I told you today that this is important to me. We should not generally question testing in Austria to our children, but with experts and experts, together with the federal states, there is, I believe, an overview overdue. We should consider: How many tests per year do our children have? How many tests per year do the secondary school students have? And: How many tests may be necessary or not quite necessary in preparation for other educational routes at the upper level? ==References== December, exactly two days after I took over this office, an e-mail in cc was sent to us – actually to BIFIE and in cc to my ministry. This e-mail has had certain legal uncertainties and, if necessary, no further data protection problems of a company that had once cooperated with BIFIE. It was immediately prompted to investigate these suspicions before Christmas – there were discussions – and to see if you can log in to see if there is a link to verify at all what might be meant. But then I will come in detail to answer the questions. I think it's not that much about material damage – which is also associated with it. I don't want to deny that preparatory work needs to be postponed now, that we want to look at any printed test sheets, that the encrypted codes will be exchanged at the beginning of these tests and the questionnaires, the test records, may be used next time. I'll try to minimize material damage. But the symbolic damage is much bigger. If there is no longer any confidence in the data of the students – just as it was found in all the newspapers in the first few weeks – then it is necessary to act responsibly. And that's what I did. I think it was not just a quick reaction, but, above all, a correct response to those I am responsible for. We can also talk about it, Mr Walser. They have meant that we should look very closely at whom we can provide which data in what form so that we can continue to research. And this also applies to the existing data that we were allowed to collect about educational standards, about previous international comparisons. I am of course prepared to discuss this with all relevant colleagues, experts and colleagues. I'm not an obstacle to testing. I see it as my task to ensure that this test does not take place next year. I don't really see any sense when a sample – nothing else is the big Pisa comparison study, as it's only about a few thousand students – is supplemented by a sample of a single federal country. But I'll be there later. Sampling of the sample: There is a question of the power to say it has for a single federal country and what conclusions should be drawn to the whole country. I would therefore like to come to the answer to the questions. I hope I could explain about what moved me to this quick reaction. In this connection, of course, it is also the assurance, ladies and gentlemen, that school experimental schools that have applied to make the new Matura this year – primarily in English, but also some in mathematics, in German and in foreign languages – can do it smoothly. If the tests of these examples, these data, which are already stored where, for these tests, for these matrices, are completed at the end of March, so next, next, next week – and whether they are positive or negative: if negative, there are replacements that are provided to schools on the same way as the right examples, do not have to be copied and stored in school, but also centrally printed and provided to schools – and I want there to be no day lost, and that all after the new Matura can already take their exams this year. I would therefore like to answer your 55 questions as follows: Question 1: I already mentioned it. We started up with cc on 18 May. A letter from the company Zoe solutions was forwarded to the BIFIE Board of Directors on 1 December, with the content of legal uncertainties and any data protection issues. The copies were addressed not only to me at the time, but also to the Supervisory Board Chairman of BIFIE, Mr. Mettinger. On question 2: This information was made in writing, but in a non-specific form: no URL, i.e. no specific address on which the data could have been controlled, no server, no name of the homepage where anything would have been to be found. On questions 3 and 4, the following measures: I would like to draw up the two questions if you allow. A request was sent to BIFIE in writing. It was contacted BIFIE by the section management in order to verify precisely this data security together with Kapsch, the new IT provider, a subsidiary of Kapsch. The relevant sections I and III were assigned to make this review. From me it was the next time on 25. February, because in between, ladies and gentlemen, the whole of January was in contact, the search was not terminated for these supposed data that would be publicly available. We had no access, as we said, to the server, the URL not, no access. I was assured that there was nothing here, no suspicion. ==References====External links== February – immediately on the evening when this became public, not only was advertising paid to the public prosecutor's office by the two directors of the BIFIE, but I also made immediate contact with the Minister of the Interior and the Director General for Public Security in order to enable the Federal Criminal Office and to follow the case in this way. Question 5: Since the current investigations have not yet been completed, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot make any statements here on the current state of investigation either. But you can be sure that I will do this as soon as these investigations are completed. There is no need for an extra written request. This is what I do about myself, because this is a need for me anyway, because we want to know it ourselves and also want to make it public, what happened at the time, the criminal and/or civil consequences that could be derived from it. On question 6: I would like to say that the tests have been stopped in accordance with the BIFIE Act, § 24. I can only remind you of this: § 24 includes responsibility for the conduct and compliance with the data protection of BIFIE by the competent member of the government. And: The testing of data security with regard to the standardized maturity test is under way. I already mentioned it: We are expecting the result at the end of next week. The job packages are available in any case, which have also been prepared by us in the department with experts. Question 7: The test stop was communicated by me to the directors immediately, on the day of the rise of this story, verbally. From then on, there was and is ongoing communication with the BIFIE Directorate. There is of course also communication with the Supervisory Board. I'll meet the works council. I will, of course, also meet the Chairmen or the Chairmen of the Scientific Advisory Council. These dates are all agreed for a long time. But the contact has been made. Question 8: Yes, provided that data security is guaranteed. This was related to the news from the newspaper "Die Presse". On the question 9: There was a letter from me to OECD Education Director Dr. Barbara Ischinger and Dr. Schleicher as well as a telephone call with Dr. Schleicher from a staff member of my cabinet and our OECD Ambassador in Paris who is in contact with the two. Question 10: In December 2013, I was told that the general evidence of BIFIE/Capch Zoe Solutions could not be confirmed despite intensive research and extensive surveys. Therefore, there was not a sufficiently justified suspicion of action at that time. On the question 11: The Federal Criminal Office was informed on the 25th of the evening. Question 12: I was told that this corresponds to the facts. I was also told that the test results were encrypted, in anonymized form, and therefore could not be read out without knowledge of the database structure we did not have. On the question 13: I was told that Kapsch Business put the data on the non-public test server. Questions 14 and 15: These again include the ongoing investigations, where you can understand that I can't say anything about this now, as they have not yet been completed. On the question 16: Yeah, that's how it was passed on to me. Questions 17 and 18: Again, I have to refer to the ongoing procedure, which is why I cannot provide any information. Yes, on the evening of the 25th. – If you want to hear the question 16 again: ‘It is correct that access to this data is made on 25 May. February 2014 has been blocked?’ Yes, so it was told to me that Kapsch – we can then discuss it again – when this server was set offline. That doesn't mean we've ever been safe about this data. But the server was shut down, so it was reported to me, still at night, in the evening of that day. On question 19: On the basis of an opinion of a judicially sworn IT expert, exercising the auditor's obligation to speak at BIFIE's annual financial statements 2011, serious deficiencies were identified in the IT platform to be held by Zoe Solutions. The BIFIE then immediately launched the renovation. Question 20: Under the management board Haider/Dorninger, this decision was taken in 2012 by decision of the Supervisory Board of BIFIE. On question 21: Yes, in compliance with the contract law, the tender has been made. On the question 22: According to BIFIE, it is €390 000. On the question 23: This question is still being examined by BIFIE. Question 24: As I have been told, the BIFIE Supervisory Board in autumn 2013 instructed the Directors to verify data security. Such preparatory work has been carried out. The large, independent, comprehensive review of data security is now directly commissioned by the BMBF, by my department. On question 25: According to BIFIE, this was a vulnerability to the platform of Zoe solutions. The BIFIE did not have the source code – means: no access to the database. On the question 26: According to BIFIE there are agreements with Kapsch regarding data handling and data security based on the Data Protection Act, including with the sub-contractors. On the question 27: This is to be answered with Yes, according to BIFIE. Question 28: Yes. On question 29: That's how BIFIE told me: With Kapsch there are corresponding data processing and data security agreements based on the Data Protection Act, including with sub-contractors and third parties. Questions 30 and 31: Allow me to get together: As data security is reviewed in terms of technical and procedural facts, all surveys have been stopped without an alternative. In addition, I was told that a year ago, I had already mentioned this, the resort had decided to switch to electronic reviews for PISA. On questions 32 and 33: All data collected would be affected by a data interface. I think that both the students' answers and the contents of the context questionnaires would thus have become unsafe by transferring them. I could not accept this uncertainty with the yes for another review. Preparations for field testing were so far advanced, ladies and gentlemen, that it seemed unrealistic to repeat all the necessary work steps in this short time while respecting the general, perfect and comprehensive data security. On question 34: I would like to continue with 2018 PISA. Education standards have only been postponed and continue to run when data security is provided. I assume that next year we can continue or complete German so that a whole cycle is also completed. On question 35: The share of disadvantaged students in the New Secondary School is much higher than in primary schools. Nevertheless, the New Secondary School has managed to promote these children significantly better with the new learning culture. The girl-burschen distinction is lower than in the primary school. Migration background or not: If social status is excluded here, there is no difference in learning a foreign language, English. The difference in performance between pupils from far-off education families and pupils from close-to-school families is also much smaller in the New Secondary School than in the primary school. On question 36: The originally communicated test break – I had addressed it – for 2015 was naturally discussed with the directors, with experts. Now we need a new situation, the more extensive tests by independent institutions – the great test I had suggested –. On the question 37: No, no, no, On the question 38: This question will and will have to be discussed with the countries and experts. On questions 39 and 40, which I may sum up: Expenses for international testing and education standards: 1.5 million. Eligible personnel costs for both: 2.04 million. Costs for the development of the review tasks do not apply once again in the course of subsequent review. Question 41: According to information, €59 000 for the verification of data security related to the standardized maturity test. The TÜV AUSTRIA now checks the standardized maturity test in the school test. On question 42: The current investigations have not yet been completed. That is why I cannot make any statement. On question 43: Three offers have been received. The contract was awarded to the TÜV AUSTRIA via the BBG, the Federal Procurement Company. On question 44: The examination of the BIFIE for data security is in preparation. This will be initiated following the results of the review of the Matura. The operation will be carried out in accordance with the contract rules. Results are expected to be available in 2014, rather than at the end of the year. On question 45: These tasks were not stored on the affected Internet platforms and the affected BIFIE server. It's about the replacement tasks. On questions 46 and 47: Based on preliminary work by BIFIE, and in the past, the tasks of experts and experts have been processed and, of course, provided to schools by the BMBF in case of need. Question 48: Yes, there are other BIFIE emergency packages that can be provided to individual schools in case of need. Question 49: The BMBF is in ongoing contact with the Austrian OECD delegation. Questions 50 and 51: To this end, I am told that a sample limited to Upper Austria cannot be considered representative of total Austria. There is also, until now, no concept of the country of Upper Austria which this implementation would have meant to me. On questions 52 and 53: There were written and oral contacts between Cabinet staff and OECD. On question 54: I had already answered this with questions 30 and 31. On question 55: That's not known to me until now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e10332	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister. We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, each club having a total speaking time of 25 minutes. Mr Dieter Brosz spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e10362	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I had the pleasure, in the years which Harald Walser spoke about, 2000 to become relatively fresh teachers of the Greens. I can remember very well the situation we had before: de facto no comparisons in Europe, not in Austria at all. Those who read through the Government Conventions of the 1990s will find that even then a large coalition has always written in: Austria has the best education system in Europe. This usually came with the reference: We're doing a great job with youth unemployment, we're best. Ergo: Our school system is so great, so there is little youth unemployment. The big call and the big aha location then came after the first PISA tests. Now you don't need to put PISA under a glass crash and say that this is the nonplusultra, but it has provided essential insights. At least then, it was no longer possible to declare Austrian education policy a sacrosanct. I think that at least PISA has triggered a number of reform debates, a need for reform. What these reforms look like in concrete terms – keyword: New secondary school – is already a completely different chapter, and what really happened there. I can also remember very well how the arguments were in the years that followed. Mrs Bundesminister Gehrer said: Well, now we know, now we have to start to act; but school takes longer, so let's be measured by those who are coming new to the schools and who have benefited from my reforms – theirs, the Gehrer reforms! A similar debate was started when Minister of Education Gehrer was no longer Minister of Education and her predecessor Schmied came to the row, took over the Ministry of Education and said there: [[towards Federal Minister Heinisch-Hosek]] Now everything is quite different, because Gehrer wanted a completely different education policy than I, forging. – Mr Mayer already has to laugh. Minister Schmied then promoted this idea with the New Middle School and said: It takes years to check it out when the children come to my reformed school. If you now calculate and know, there are nine years of school – from 2015 we count the nine years back to 2006, or we count them up from 2006 to 2015 – then you can see: Hoppla, 2015 would be the PISA testing, which should come now, but will not come anymore, and if one wanted to do so and after the then argumenting of blacksmith, it would be the first children who would have actually completed their entire educational career in the Age of Schmied, under a new SPÖ education policy. Unfortunately, we can judge this badly, because now the results do not come. If you look further at what is happening and take into account the schedule in Austria, then you can see – if this federal government lasts so long, we will see, but if it is planned – in September 2018 there will be elections, PISA 2018 will be in December 2018. Remarkable side aspect, Mrs Bundesminister: In this legislative period, you have been spared from these data, which have always aroused sight! Therefore, allow me to take a look at your story here: big data leak. – This reminds me of Thatcher, who always said: There is no alternative! – there is no alternative – what you mean: You had to cancel now. I think it has been affected almost every party in Austria by a hacker attack, a homepage has been cracked. At least I know about us, I think it was the same with almost everyone else. And I now ask myself whether any party would come up with the idea to say: Well, we'll take it down now, and in a year and a half, we might be giving it up again – or if it takes two days, maybe a week, until you close this leak! There are now data, where there has apparently been a problem from the previous provider, and it is not to be achieved that from December 2013, as it came from May 2014, there are the tests, i.e. within half a year, a solution that creates data security. Honestly, if the Austrian administration is at this level, then you have to keep your hands in mind and consider what else happens when half a year cannot be found a solution and this data leak cannot be closed! Now Mr Walser is right to say that these are the tests. The sensitivity of the data from the tests will probably not yet be the burning problem. The right results come in another year. We would have had a year and a half to solve this problem. Let me now assume that it is not so inappropriate for you to be able to suspend the tests in this form! I'm just making a reference to an expert now. If Mr. Sacher of the ARGE DATES, who is quite well-known for taking data protection very seriously and articulate himself very loudly in any obvious problem, literally calling this suspension “abominable” and the argumentation – his statement that I do not get an order call – as a “slow argument”, then I ask myself the question whether there really would have been no alternative. This is, by the way, the same sage who has made it clear that ELGA is absolutely unacceptable in this form as far as data protection is concerned – as the government seems relatively difficult to hear. My presumption is therefore that this is actually something quite different. It is about the fact that the data, in particular – and this has been mentioned – as regards the New Secondary School, are explicitly bad in Austria, that the next results would also reflect exactly the fact that in 2015 it would become clear what these types of schools brought. These would also be included in the test, of course they would be extra marked at the time, and one could actually really say for the first time: How did developments there continue compared to the primary schools, compared to the AHS? We have this possibility simply and simply not if you suspend this testing. My guess is that's not inconvenient to you. You are quite welcome because you do not have to stand up to this discussion, which your predecessors had to hold. I looked at the transcript of the “press hour ” of Sunday. I can't help myself, but if I read this, I have the impression that exactly this argumentation is coming out here. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] You, Mrs. Federal Minister, have made it clear – I am now glad that you did not say that on Sunday either – that you are planning to join PISA again in 2018. [[Federal Minister Heinisch-Hosek: I said!]] – You said that today. [[Federal Minister Heinisch-Hosek: On Sunday too!]] Well, that doesn't mean Austria will be back. Now one can say that one could also have said that it will not be there again; definitely there was no clear confession on Sunday. I take note that it has now been a pleasure that it will come back. They also said the following, also in relation to the situation and problems of the education system, as to what is necessary when 15-year-olds leave the school system: “There we should now focus on it and not whether, as I am really sorry, we do not put ourselves on an international comparison test.” That is to say, you are concerned about what has always been argued about – we need a low youth unemployment, we need measures – to put it in the foreground; and to do so, as if testing had any influence on whether there is a youth in Austria who becomes less unemployed or not, I simply believe this argument to you and simply not! Because whether it is tested at BIFIE whether educational experts are conducting tests will – I am sure you will – not be able to agree with the question of youth unemployment. You have already made quite clear there that the question of this international comparison test does not have this meaning in you by questioning and saying, the teachers and students say: It's being tested all the time! You come to school, at the beginning is tested, in the middle is tested, constantly is tested! – Yes, that’s, I think, a real problem. But what tests do the notes bring? – Not the PISA tests, not the comparative tests; they are the forms of schoolwork, of tests that actually experience many relatives, students as quite tiring, namely that you learn from one test to the next and not so that comprehensive knowledge, understanding knowledge is the focus. Just don't pretend now that the PISA tests have something to do with it, because at least they won't be judged and don't get into the notes! I can call you from practice, as a father currently quite different examples of tests, from a fourth and sixth AHS. When I read it, I think: What language is it about here?, but have great difficulties to understand what is asked there at all. That, I think, is not necessarily what should be the focus of testing. We Greens are therefore clearly of the opinion that this decision has been overpowered by you that it was premature for it to be covered. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] If you take it seriously that it is also about comparability, then it is certainly not too late today. You emphasize, you said it on Sunday, it is de facto no longer changeable. There is no expert who confirms this. If you would like to proceed quickly and say: Data security is important to me, but I'm trying to find a solution that guarantees data security and nevertheless allows participation!, then – I'm deeply convinced – you would do it. Maybe. You also have the opportunity or this debate to reconsider your decision. If you do not do so, you must be accused that you have found a welcome occasion to withdraw from test procedures that will allow the quality of education to be assessed in Austria. I think that in the sense of one – how did Claudia Schmied always say that? – evidence-based education policy would be a clearly wrong step.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e10434	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e10502	I call Mr Elmar Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e10528	Mr President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, Mr Brosz: I am also sorry that this rejection has taken place or must take place because, unlike you, I am convinced that this PISA test would result in the fact that it is going up, as the last PISA results have shown. There will be no big jumps, but there will continue to go up, and there will be longer periods of time when we are back there, including those measures which we have put in place and which you are still in such a state of devastation. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Walser.]] You know – I only bring the example – the “educational vapour” moves slowly, you have to set the course. We have put these in many areas over the past five years, and this will also have an impact, and I am convinced that this is the only reason for everyone to stand behind them. I would like to return to an area which Mr Brosz has also mentioned, namely the problem of ‘testitis’, of grades, of examinations, of schoolwork, of all this to pupils, they are hardly in school. I think there's actually the puddle core. We know, and this has been known for 40 years from development psychology and from research, that, for example, one and the same essay of teachers who were equipped with the same training in the same year is listed from very good to not enough. By the way, there is an investigation that even in mathematics, where one might believe, there is a point system, there is no different, there must be a very clear allocation, the entire score scale from very good to not enough. It is important to see this problem in terms of grades, and I therefore think it is good what the Minister has said, namely that, especially in the field of primary school, we proceed to a verbal assessment that we do not choose the form of numerical notation, with Einser and I know what all, and print out music. In the In the meantime, brain research also confirms how good, sustainable learning can take place in a good atmosphere. I think that's important. The efforts that we all have in common, at least when we talk about education policy, go towards school autonomy. We want to strengthen them, we want to give the school very clear tasks, where it is supposed to go, what the educational goals are, what we want at the end of the elementary school, what we want at the end of the eighth school level, that our young people, our students can do. We want to work there very specifically, not with weekly music printing, but specifically in the field of competence. In addition to the international tests, PISA, PIRLS, TIMSS, which are important in order to have the international comparison, which is also very important at universities and universities, to know that one can adjust what to do, where one should put the lever on. But it is also very crucial to do so nationally. I can recall the great uproar there was when Minister Schmied said this with the education standards. We want at the end of the fourth level to be as guaranteed as possible – as far as possible! – that the students can read, write, count, I also say to control the free speech that this is being expanded and strengthened, at the latest when they leave school. Many of the measures that we want to take to do so must be taken step by step, and that is why the pressure to face up to the pressure from the note that the unfair emergency is our main criticism. Point at the early selection at nine years. If I already know how unfair notes arise, if I already know how unfairly the social origin often disadvantages children, and then strengthen this with this selective selection, then I do exactly the opposite of what I want: Equal opportunities to create equal opportunities and those who do not have the opportunity from home to give them their opportunities, which they would actually have to support accordingly. It is quite, very important that we confess to this, and that is the pleasure of this debate, that everyone – and I assume, even in the following words – suddenly recognises the importance of the tests, with PISA, PIRLS and TIMSS, up to the education standards we make nationally, up to the new Matura. It's been different before, it's hard to criticise: Do we need that at all? It costs a lot of money! This common confession of all, it must not be possible for this to be implemented because of this data abuse that has happened, is pleasing. This is what we want to prevent, and I therefore believe that these improvements that we are making are very decisive steps. It is there, and the Minister has already mentioned this, that this transition from kindergarten to folk school means that this one is gliding. There too we have had this test experience. We're making a school-leaving test, so it's still going to say, on the day we find out whether the child is mature or not where it has deficits, and so on. There, too, very concrete steps are being taken to harmonise this transition, so that these transitions are actually such that they can be child-friendly. We see deficit developments where we have to put the lever on where we need to promote and where we can demand the children. Therefore, the aim is to ensure that we can get these individual weekly tests out of school and motivate schools, teachers and parents to equip the children with skills in these important areas. But this also includes bringing this reliability. It is about fairness of opportunity, reliability and – now I come to the crucial point – the trust of the parents that one can rely on the data collected to be safe. These are also, of course, the Minister has mentioned it, through the secondary surveys that have been carried out in order to take up, get to know the social environment of children, very sensitive and sensitive data. You need to know where and why these shortcomings exist: because of too small a home, because of the income, the origin of the parents and so on. That is why the data, which can be identified in part about the children, is very sensitive and very sensitive, and that is why we must take Mrs Minister's concerns very seriously, as I think. If you are advocating for equal opportunities, reliability and trust, then, I believe, you have to give the Minister the right to do so. I am a little surprised that those who at the beginning cried out “return!” could not be, now are exactly those who say that the woman minister goes too sensitive with these data and that should not be exactly collected. I also mean, this is a criminal act that happened there – and it has to be clarified. If you can really interpret what has been raised so far, then it's actually a criminal act, and I don't want future testing to be accompanied by such criminal files. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e10603	Mrs Jank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e10625	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen and all those interested in education! Yes, the rejection and discussions about the rejection of educational tests and standards are not pleasant. The definitive rejection – Mrs Minister, I put it right at the beginning and will perhaps repeat it there or there again, hoping that steady drops could cave the stone – this definitive rejection should perhaps still be subject to a thorough examination! [[It was in favour of the ÖVP as well as of Mr Strolz and Mr Glavischnig-Piesczek.]] Austria joined PISA from the beginning. So we're almost early adopters on this question. The suspension has far-reaching consequences, which has already been mentioned many times. At the moment your statement is not quite clear to me whether there will also be a shift in education standards, with German in the coming year, because what would that mean? – There would be no summary data for the upcoming 2015 National Education Report, a derivation of criteria for successful "good" schools or focal schools would be possible much later. What does it mean for PISA if your decision remains as it has been confirmed several times by you? – Where our children are in international comparison in the fields of reading, mathematics and natural sciences, we only learn at the end of this legislative period. I would like to point out what that means on the subject of natural sciences that you yourself have addressed. The last test in natural sciences was in 2006, i.e. enough long ago to determine if we have moved something. At that time, we were just over the OECD average, but it was not reassuring to see from this test that our children had less joy and fun in reading or learning natural science than in other countries. This went to the future-oriented motivation, where we are even worse located. That is, young people do not understand that the field of natural sciences is a much more essential one, and it is in particular essential in the consideration of our economic possibilities. We have our business opportunities right there, in the natural sciences. But the businesses are fighting with young people who have not been brought closer to interest and joy on these issues in good time. The failure of this scientific test from the point of view of the economy is therefore a particularly painful one. However, I would like to address a few other points which are also in discussion, because the debate alone is already creating or at least could reinforce the corresponding uncertainty. This is once the issue of the implementation of the central matura. Thank you many times for ensuring that this central matura will at least take place in the planned form, no matter how the examples come to the schools. I think this is very important because the Matura is not only a summary question of the results of the person who has been learned so far, but because it is also an incision or an essential part of the life story of people. Some say they dream of the day of Matura years later. So this is obviously already an event you are trying to do and what you are working on. I would also like to say that vocational and educational guidance must be an essential part of our training. The anchoring of this vocational and educational orientation as binding exercises both in the AHS and in the New Secondary Schools is extremely important from the point of view of the companies and from the point of view of our economy. Last but not least, it is also important to me to say again – this is a special concern –: School has a lot of tasks, but school cannot handle all the tasks you mean to be able to accomplish in school. In particular, children who come from remote layers but who also come from layers where social economic difficulties exist also need support. We can't lose anyone on the way. However, this support must be provided by experts. It may also be given at local school, but it cannot be given by teachers. I have conducted a study that has shown us that those young people have more difficult lives – perhaps not only because of the family situation they come from – but also because of their appreciation. Appreciation is one of the prerequisites for developing a healthy sense of self-esteem, and this again is a prerequisite that you can develop yourself well, even in terms of schooling. Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Let us assume that competition is necessary and important. Tests are competition, positive competition. Let us make sure that we can carry out all the right tests, too, and I do not want to ignore the need to evaluate tests, especially nationally and internationally, of course! - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e10682	Mr Mölzer came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e10703	Mr President. Minister! High house! First of all, I have to say that you have to be almost a little scared and afraid when you see how it is about data security in our country. We obviously do not need to discuss the NSA or other intelligence services, it is frightening how the public hand, in which case in indirect responsibility, has been dealing with personal data. Surely it will still be to be clear whether there were criminal machinations behind it et cetera. But one thing is clear: If one hears from other areas, but also in the field of education, that the data security is given, then the demands in this context, in this light almost sound like a cock. I am thinking in the field of education itself of the electronic classbook, which is increasingly coming, of the electronic recording of school notes or performance assessments at all. From a liberal point of view, it is clear, and we also feel absolutely strengthened by the fact that we will continue to fight against the overwhelming rage of the state, to collect data, to secure data where it is not necessary. That's where we'll keep going. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For the BIFIE itself or for the data leak, it is to be said that we Freemans were against this institution already in 2007, when the BIFIE was established by a federal law. That had two reasons at the time. On the one hand, we felt that entrusted with tasks in the outsourced area would not have been necessary, that there should have been access to university institutions or that it would have been possible to do so within the framework of the ministry. The second point that bothered us at the time and still disturbs us today was the cost of €6.5 million; costs that have doubled to this day amounted to €13 million in 2012. In our criticism, of course, we feel strengthened by the current scandal, I say, but also – Mr Rosenkranz has done this for the best two years ago, but it fits again today – through the criticism of the Court of Auditors. Let me briefly quote: ‘The breakdown of the (BIFIE) was characterised by inadequate targets from the BMUKK. Additional funds were already made available to BIFIE in 2008 – beyond the legally defined grants.” And that's where it says: “BIFIE’s core tasks included the implementation of key BMUKK projects: education standards and the standardised, competence-oriented maturity test at higher schools. The Scientific Advisory Board of BIFIE criticised the conception of the standardized, competence-oriented maturity test. The BIFIE project control did not fulfil the educational importance and the financial scale of the projects.’ Once more: It is time, even because of the current occasion, to reconsider, also in the sense of what the Vienna City School Council President has said, whether one should not develop alternatives to BIFIE, whether, as we think, it would not be better to entrust university institutions, but also the Ministry itself with the conduct of studies and research in this context, and to see which alternatives there are. On the data leak itself, it is to be said that the actual scandal is, of course, in addition to the data leak and the relatively slow response time of the ministry, that a company equipped with € 13 million of tax money a year gives orders to foreign companies via two sub-contractors, which are then not even able to carry out this task, but are also making the data public. It really can't be! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For testing stop: There is no question at all that we need to establish, evaluate and evaluate the achievements of our education area, that this is necessary. But on the one hand, of course, the jungle of tests that we have here is to be reconsidered. That's not a question at all. On the other hand, if you do not make the right reforms, you can also ask whether a regular evaluation can bring something new at all. But that's just on the verge. However, as long as there are no alternatives to PISA and Co, we will also take action to ensure that this continues to exist. In this sense, I would like to say briefly: You said in the Committee, Madam Minister, that you will save €3.6 million and will not spend elsewhere due to the test stop. We believe that we should urgently use these €3.6 million elsewhere for essential educational policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e10777	This is what Mr Ing has to say. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e10798	Mr President. High house! When we talk about tests today, I think we should also talk about the school system as a whole. And there's only one finding that we don't need to have this tested, we don't need to spend money on it either: Our school system is one of the worst in the world, but sometimes costs most compared to all school systems around the world. If you look at this fact, you have to ask yourself the question: Why is that so? The answer is relatively simple. The answer is: There is inefficiency and waste of money on the agenda wherever policy is involved. Just look at the companies that have so far been influenced by politics! From Voest to the “consumer” to the airport, no matter what business you are looking at, wherever politics was in it, inefficiency came out, and the cost was ultimately much higher than it would have been necessary. And that's the point. That means what you're doing is something the Soviet Union has tried. There has been a five-year plan in the Soviet Union, and the Central Committee has decided which shoes and, above all, what size should be produced. For five years it was decided which shoes are produced and especially in what size. And the result was that most of them either walked around with too big or too small shoes. And the same thing you do in the field of education. Most of our children walk in the classes either with too big or with too small shoes through the area, because you have not yet understood that we need differentiation. And that's not about deciding whether we need external or internal differentiation. As you put it right now, we need an external differentiation, so we need the gymnasia. But it could also be an internal differentiation, but not in the way you do it. Because you create the New Secondary School by doing nothing but attach a new sign at the door of the main school where “New Secondary School” stands on it. They put twice as much money in, a second teacher, but they don't change anything about the basic problem. It needs differentiation, even in the class. But you don't want to. You have excluded this from the Committee. They said in the Committee that if there are different gifted children in the class – that is, the one coming with, the other is not available – although a second teacher is available, but they must not switch to another classroom to have rest, but they must stay in the same class, because here the ideology comes to bear – and you also said in the committee – that the bad learn from the good. Now, tell me how this is supposed to work! How is the bad mathematician in class to learn from the good? Is he taken aside during the break and the good explains it to the bad? Is that how it is? Is that what you want? Or is the break for the children to recover and regenerate? [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Or maybe you want it in class? Do you want the children to learn from each other in class? Well then I want to know if it still works half way in class with the discipline. It just doesn't work! And if the new secondary school you have praised, which has received from the Court of Auditors an annihilation, where the teaching takes place together, then rides on a ski course, the first thing you do on the first day, is one, two, three, four performance classes. Of course, you don't let the bad skier ride with the good skier in a group, because the bad disabled the good. That means no one has anything of it. The bad skier is depressed and frustrated, and the good skier has to wait permanently for the bad and can't learn anything either. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] And exactly the same thing happens in class. You just have to turn on the house's mind a little bit. In class the same thing happens. And the main problem with the 78 000 students leaving school is that they have no future perspective. They should turn to you, Mrs. Minister. Deprived They have this chance of living because you don't make it happen to them to read and write. And that's the problem. Mrs. Minister! If you are against the fact that you are internally differentiated and pick up those where they stand, then you have not understood the school system. And that's why I'm saying: Politics out of school! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We don't need a woman's minister, who thinks he's particularly upset and knows what's needed in every school. You don't know! Just as little as the Central Committee in Russia knew who needed shoes and, above all, what sizes, you don't know what was needed in the school in Perchtoldsdorf, in the South Styria, in Tyrol or in Vienna. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach]] You don't know that! But the teachers know that, and the director should know. And that's why we need autonomy, but not that autonomy you announced in the press hour. You have said that it is very important for you that the schools are autonomous and even decide on such important things as whether the bell is ringing or not. – This is not the autonomy we need! Schools should be able to decide which teachers they employ, which financial means they need to raise to the level necessary to prevent 78 000 from having any perspective each year. That's where we're right now. We are at one point where we spend a lot of money on producing 78 000 people each year who have no perspective. That's the problem! [[Federal Minister Heinisch-Hosek: How do you get 78 000?]] How do I get to the 78,000? – These are those who are unable to read, write, and calculate properly, starting from compulsory school and ultimately having a problem in our society. And you don't see that and you don't want to see it because you're wearing the ideological flaps and because you don't want something, above all: They do not want to distance themselves from politics. After all, the school system has now passed as a supply instrument to provide any national politicians with positions, posts and, above all, influence. You have to see that. And you don't want to give up on that. You don't want to give up on the influence you have. Just, we don't need it. What we need is proper educational goals and autonomous schools that implement them. One point at the end, we have to address that again. I know I've been beaten up for this, but I'm saying it again today. There are 5,000 so-called problem teachers in Austria. These are teachers who are passed on from one school to the next like a hiking ball. There are teachers who come to class alcoholic. [[Calls of the Abg. Oberhauser.]] – There are, yes, and not so few! Do you know how many of the hundreds of teachers who come to teach alcoholics have been thrown out in the last ten years? - Zero! Or those teachers who regularly come to class at about a quarter of an hour too late, they also do not think so. [[Abg. Heinzl: That's a premise!]] Unfortunately, we have the problem that the schools cannot choose the teachers. And that's why they have to take what they get. And then they get such “wallerpocals” where no one is willing to pull the emergency brake in the interest of our children. Unfortunately, that is a fact. And then it always says off the side of the union: What the Lugar says is humane. It is not possible to re-train these 5,000 teachers and give them a different perspective. You can't do that, it's always said from the teachers' union. If you come to the hospital and need surgery and you know the operator, the doctor you want to operate now, has a problem to see blood, and tips over three times in an operation, so that the assistant or the operating aid must keep him, by the way, there is also what do you think, what will happen? [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] There are people who study medicine and then come up with it, they can't see blood, and then tip around. You know what happens then? – They get a new perspective. Would you be allowed to operate on someone like that? Would you? But our students are raped with teachers who are not suitable. I'm afraid so. And that's the problem. This isn't about making teacher bashing. [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] There are quite a lot of dedicated, good teachers in this country. But 5 000, that's only 5 percent anyway, it's not. And that's where you have to look, not look away, in the interest of our children. Because as a father, you have no way I have two schoolchildren to make sure that your child is lucky to have a good teacher or a good teacher, or not. One must not even go to class as a parent and attend the class. You can't even do that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Keck.]] You can't do that in our beautiful country. That means you have no way to see if your child has the great luck of having a good teacher or not. What you can do if you have enough money is to help the child with a lot of money and much after help. You can do that. But whether the teacher is good and if the teacher understands something about what he does, you can't influence it. And here we are in exactly what the Socialists have long forgotten about the social aspect. If I can afford it, my child will get a good education because I can help with money and with assistance. If I can't afford it, the child will eventually be among those 78 000 who have no perspective in this country, and that is really a shame, especially for social democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e10905	I call Mr Klubobmann. Dr. Strolz. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e10926	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear citizens! Dear parents and students on the screens and here on the ranks! Mrs Bundesminister, first of all, I think that this is the same as the hypo topic: They act like I mean, in good will. I'd like to admit that to you. But there is also the same as the hypo: Well meant isn't well done yet! I think you've made a wrong decision. If I look at the government programme, then there are praises. There's stuff in there that makes sense. For example, on the basis of a social consensus within it, we need to make more effort in the field of early childhood education, to increase our commitment in the field of language early promotion. You know, NEOS is still far too far from us. That's all far too little determination. But yes, I recognize that there are clear road markings in the right direction. Let's remember: How did these road markings come about? – This was done on the basis of educational debates that were launched through international educational comparisons, through education monitoring. There is no educational debate in Austria except for the 30-year war: Total school: yes or no?, except it is perplexedly triggered by moderate or poor results in international education comparisons. That is, we need a bite of bread as necessary as the hungry, because otherwise we will not get into the corridors. I'd say, Those positive road markings you have in the government programme, we have based on discussions that have been initiated by PISA results. And that's why I don't think we can easily clean this up and say: Yes, we have a problem, and that's why we stop everything!, but it should be called: Yeah, we have a problem, and what do we do now? That would be the right question! Name: What alternatives do I have? And that's where we advertise evidence based, of course. We need these data, these are not absolute to set. I agree with you, Mrs Minister, yes, there must also be a discussion on the value and sensibleness of educational comparisons within the appropriate framework, which are not sakrosanct and the absolute scale, but they are, of course, very important clues where we are, where we stand, where we are moving. And, of course, a shock went through Austria, when we learned from the previous PISA measurement that a quarter at 15 years of age cannot just read, because of course, that goes through every person, no matter if I have a godchild or have a child of my own. [[Call the SPÖ: This is the problem!]] If I think of this child and imagine, that can't be read at the age of 15, not expected well, then just stress remains. Of course, we're breaking these kids' wings. We're not raising them. And last time we landed at a fifth, a biterl moved while reading, calculating. You know, we need this data. Now, of course, we also have the difficult findings from the Court of Auditors towards New Secondary School. We haven't gone a evidence-based way, we've rolled out a new school model into the regular school system without waiting for empirical data. In this case it is, of course, twice incomprehensible that we are now saying: Now we are doing a whole legislative period, Mrs. Minister, without a PISA test! It is, of course, pleasant for you because you save yourself a discussion, but we carry it on the back of our children. And I don't think that's right! You know where we want NEOS. I think we are not so far apart in many areas. I am also pleased that, as I believe, we have very good start-ups, especially in the discussion in the teaching committee, but we are not yet very far. We would like to see the free common secondary school of diversity. There we meet with a few political groups, I think, here in the House, if we want to strengthen diversity, if we naturally want to strengthen differentiation, if we also want to strengthen autonomy. Mrs. Minister, this is my appeal! They do a lot in the area of autonomy, but everything only in the area of structural, organizational autonomy. You have to think wider here. This is my great appeal, namely that we say: Autonomous autonomy also means that teachers are being hired at school, that is, didactic-pedagogical autonomy, that we have a variety and thus also a competition! I agree with Mr Jank when she says: a competition also of pedagogical concepts, including school locations! Yes, competition and cooperation are not a reality. They have room under one roof. And we should make policy a framework where we bring schools into cooperation and competition. Again: Each ski club must create this tension sheet that it organizes competition and cooperation well under a common roof. If he doesn't organize this well, then there's bad results. And so it's in school. 65 countries participate in the PISA test. And that's where I can't believe, Mrs. Minister, that we're the country that doesn't get the organisational order. We're not amateurs. [[Federal Minister Heinisch-Hosek: That's not the point!]] Well, what a message it is when I say: I have a problem, but I have four months to fix the problem. The OECD has said yes: I'll give you a time limit for the field testing! I have four months. Yes, imagine: You have a company and you have a data problem. You can't say: So, in four months it's not better either! Head into the sand and everything stops. – I think this is the wrong answer! [[New interim remark by Federal Minister Heinisch-Hosek.]] That's clear to me, but also in your non-profit organization, it doesn't have to be a company. I just want to say, It can't be that a computer problem paralyses me over four months and in the future over years. I can't! Because then we can block any project like ELGA and so on. Then we must ban the computers in this House and we must stop thinking about computers, the Internet and so on if we can't act faster than we do in this case. I think crisis management is overcrowded here, I think it's not professional. Mrs. Minister, we've been looking at this. On Question 6 you say: § 24a BIFIE law was the basis for the instruction. – We do not believe that this is a valid basis because § 24 of the BIFIE Act is primarily about something where the Ministry is designated as the supervisory authority. And I do not believe that this is a basis for guidance. So you have to look at that again! [[I should like to congratulate the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.]] My wish would be for you to look at other alternatives in particular. Some people are already wearing you. I think the University of Salzburg has shown here that one also says no stone falls out of the crown, if some federal states here go their own way, who also organize themselves, take responsibility for themselves. I know you just wanted to be safe here, too. You have acted in good will, I believe, but I also believe that you would act in good will – and that would be a sensational signal from this government, that would be new government! – if you said: Okay, I shot too fast, I'm going back one step and from this step away I'm taking this decision back! Yes, you can be wrong in politics too! That would be a contribution to the culture of errors in this country. You could not make a greater contribution at a meta-level, Mrs Education Minister, than now to revise your step! I would like to make a motion for a resolution because I believe there are alternatives. We have already shown them, and I think that we should look at others. When you say, I do not agree with the fact that there are no educational comparisons here, but I would like this instrument of education monitoring!, I believe that we should accept this motion for a resolution, which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] I think that would be the right march. Good for your decisions over the next few weeks!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e11035	The application is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e11125	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Jarmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e11148	Mr National Council President! Thank you, Madam Minister for Education! Ladies and gentlemen! Citizens' values! On the topic of education: Did you know that certain groups are excluded during the tests, both in Austria and at the international level? Did you know? - No, I don't. There are disabled children, for example, who are not tested, where it is not seen what performance these children provide. There's something like that! That's why I wonder: What does Austrian education policy look like? – Parallel system: This means integration system on the one hand and another system on the other. The education system says that combining the two systems does not work. It always raises the question: either the one or the other? – That doesn’t make sense, and this contradicts the UN Convention. And what about the state money? – Money is spent, disabled people are being examined, but on the other hand, they are not controlled by the performance of these children. And we must not forget what it is like when the disabled children complete the schools. Then these children become adults, or later adults. Education tests and education standards are very, very important. These enable reforms, improvements. Without standards, you can't do any reforms. How do you imagine that? And I'm wondering now: How to implement an educational reform: on a blind flight? - No, I can't! [[Congratulation with greens and NEOS.]] Thank you, Mrs. Minister! You're an expert yourself. They have worked in the education sector themselves and have also worked on a school of heavy hearing. I just want to show you one example. It's about deaf children. You know, disabled children or deaf children are discriminated against twice. That means they don't always get the right to a rule program. You'll get a special school program. - That's one. Secondly, The children have no right to the teaching in the sign language. That means they have no right to their own mother tongue. They must not be taught bilingually. In addition, teachers do not have to be sign language competent. You don't have to have any knowledge in the sign language at all. Imagine: How does such a class go about in a school? You can imagine this: The tulip is red, the tulip is yellow, the tulip is soundso! Does that make sense? - No! These children do not learn to read meaningfully in this way, because there is no sign language either. These children are underprivileged, and that every day. What does that mean for these children in turn? – There are scientific studies that indicate that fifteen-year-old school leavers have a language vocabulary competence of an eight-year-old child. And that in an ideal case, please beautiful! I can't do that! It's just impossible! You can't just say that one is taking part in one test and the other is not. You can't say: You're too weak or you're so good! Who decides? So the education standards also select and do not allow all the persons concerned to be tested. Austria is not a developing country! I wonder, How is that possible? - That would be one point. Before I finish, I would like to say that the educational tests should be carried out. Also, various groups should be involved and tested, both at international and national level. It's supposed to be a matter of course. Well, it's clear: Every person has a right to education, to the best possible education, because education is the basis for future life. If you have a good education, then you can express yourself, you have the same access to the labour market. Finally, I would like to say: My request would be that other groups should also be allowed to participate in the tests, in accordance with the UN Convention on Disabled People. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e11233	Mrs Gessl-Ranftl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e11255	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! After listening to several speeches by the opposition parties who were really very factual and then had to listen to Mr Lugar's speech, I must regret that you, Mr Lugar, are not primarily concerned with the best education of our children, but only with adapting to the Austrian education system. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] You are also concerned that the measures that have been successfully implemented in the last few years in the sense of our students are always bad for you. This has also been seen at the last committee meeting, and unfortunately this is your foreign exchange, which is your policy. And to your claim that some teachers would go partly drunk in class, I have to tell you or give the advice to apologize to all educators. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lugar.]] The SPÖ argues that little to nothing would have happened at all is almost bound by a refusal of reality. The Austrian education system – and this can be claimed with pride – has been renewed. School development programmes have been greatly expanded. Total expenditure on large projects in 2013 was at least €8.1 billion. Large projects were, for example, the education of teachers New, smaller classes, the promotion of language, the compulsory kindergarten year, the teaching of Matura, the New Middle School, the New High School, the school day care, the mature and diploma exam New as well as the teacher service law. And now I ask you, Mr Lugar: Does failure in education policy really look like that? I personally regret it very much and it is of course not gratifying that there has been a stopover of the PISA studies and the education standards. But I am already convinced that it is the task and duty of Mrs. Minister to provide rapid and complete information – in the sense of our educators, in the sense of our students and in the sense of our teachers. And as long as full data security is not guaranteed, we will suspend all testing. This does not mean, however, that PISA tests will no longer take place in the future. The main objective must be to: Trust to restore data security and ensure complete data protection. In summary, we can say that our education system has received a tremendous boost that Mrs. Heinisch-Hosek will continue this way – and I am convinced that – successfully and that we are certainly not afraid and not worried about student testing. And with you, Mr Lugar, I have, in conclusion, the presumption that you have not been to school for a long time, otherwise you would not be able to make such absurd and unmistakable claims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e11324	Now speaking, Mr Deputies University Professor Dr. Daughters. - Please, Professor.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e11345	Mr President. Mrs. Ministra! High house! It is true that notes and tests have only a conditional power of statement. Mr Mayer, you have rightly pointed out the old facts that prove this: More than 40 years ago, Professor Rudolf Weiss was appointed to the Institute of Education at the University of Innsbruck, because he did exactly such research with Furore. He has shown that the need for notification also depends very strongly on the context knowledge of a teacher. Teachers tend to give better grades to students who are considered to be good in themselves, or to give better grades to students who come from a socially higher home. So noticing is a relative thing. The results of testing shall also be relativized. However, it is not true that notes would be completely meaningless. We know from many scientific findings that, of course, good grades make the prospects for success in later careers, whether professional or scientific, much better, more promising, that good grades and professional or university success strongly correlated. It is therefore not the case that notes would be completely meaningless. There's a bandwidth right now. And so it is right not to put that absolutely, but it would also be wrong to push it aside completely and explain it as unimportant. On the contrary: Performance determination and performance collection also in the form of numerical notes remain important and significant, both for the system as a whole and for the recipients, the students who also want this form of exploration, because it is one of the clearest and most clear discoveries, while obviously a verbal assessment must lead to empty formulations sooner or later than later. I have no choice but to operate with certain standard formulations, and with that they will be outrageous to inexpressible. Notification and testing remain important, with all the criticism that exists – which is right – and which has been expressed for a long time. The most prominent new critics are, for example, Stefan Hopmann and Konrad Paul Liessmann in his “Theory of Uneducatedness”, and they are meeting wound points of these tests. One of the weakest points is the one – and the one that is assembled by these critics – that such tests can of course never check the whole width of what school has to do and what the learning goals of school are. They only check a small neckline – however, a neckline that is not unimportant. They mainly examine skills, which by the way also the central matura must do more. It can't go on content just like these international tests, it has to go on skills and skills. I can only test that out internationally. However, these competences are – we know that also – cultural skills, economic skills, personal competences, which are important. If I can't read well, then I can't participate in social life as I should as a powerful citizen – quite apart from the dilemma that I fall into when I go into occupations with poor reading ability, where I have to deal with texts. It's quite clear: These competences have their meaning and therefore the testing of these competences is also of importance. And it is important to know where, for example, Austrian students are standing here. From this consideration and from the phenomenon that we now tend to suddenly question all the tests and all the tests and to throw them overboard – we are now starting to question the number notes; there is a discussion about the matura, apart from the current events – the impression is somehow that we are entering a test, examination and performance resistance. And you have to warn! That is why I would ask Mrs Ministra to do everything possible to prevent this radical measure from responding to this a technical problem and to try wherever it is possible to do the important tests that we need for the information about the knowledge of our students and the international standards in order to get this information. I would ask you, Mrs Ministra, not to pour out the child here with the bath. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e11397	Mr Wurm. — (DE) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e11418	Mr President. Minister! Mr Brosz of the Greens has formulated the motive for the rejection of the PISA test very nicely, we come to the same conclusion, but as Tyroleans I would put it a little more clearly: The rejection of the PISA test due to the data leak is nothing but a cheap excuse! The Minister wants to spare the Blamage to explain it to the population if these tests are negative. [[Federal Minister Heinisch-Hosek: It's not about me!]] In my opinion, that is the only reason! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If I wrote a counsellor about ruining a system of education in a sustainable way, I would get a Ghostwriter from the Social Democrats. Since the 1970s, they have really ruined the education system in Austria. It is still frightening to me that, as the figures show, 25 percent of all compulsory school graduates, as we know, cannot read, count and write meaningfully. For me, these are things that have two levels: a personal tragedy for these people, but also a national economic damage. And especially you should know from the ÖVP what problems the economy currently has and has for some years to find apprentices that it can also use. This is precisely what Leu- te in the Chamber of Commerce knows. This is not an inventive thing, but we have this problem. There are fewer and fewer apprentices that can really be used in the economy. The economy is desperately looking for graduates of compulsory schools, but these people can hardly be employed as an apprentice: And that is a huge problem in my opinion! You have to imagine this: A child is handed over to the state for nine years, every week, every day – up to the holidays – and after nine years, a quarter of the kin who does not read, count, and do not write meaningfully. In my opinion, this is a declaration of bankruptcy, especially in the case of social democracy, because it also affects children from a socially weak environment. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call:The others go to private schools]] You might also need to clear up with the mistake that school always has to be fun. [[Abg. Crochet: After this is a good approach!]] You just have to learn certain things: Calculating, reading and writing is nothing that is always fun, especially not small children. One has to make it clear to the children and students that performance, discipline and diligence are also part of the success of the school. I have been lacking this in school politics for many, many years. I think you should take a look at your Laura Rudas, who is now going to a private union, is paying over 100 000 euros of school money and making a recording test, while you have been trying to sell a completely different system to the Austrian people for decades! That's to be rejected. I would also like to ask how many of the Social Democrats send their children to private schools. Are you sending your children to public schools? [[Call the SPÖ:Yes!]] [[Abg. Crochet: I don't have children!]] - All right. All right, all right. I'll check that out and talk about it again next time. [[Cheerfulness with SPÖ and Greens.]] [[Abg. Heinzl: The man is dangerous!]] [[Abg. Walser: Now they all tremble!]] [[Call the SPÖ: That's terrible!]] Again: Unfortunately, in my opinion, the school system in Austria is permanently damaged by God. We don't necessarily need a PISA test to do this, but he would confirm it at the moment. That's not my school policy. I would call on the Minister to provide our children with a sustainable school policy that will allow everyone to learn something again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e11575	Now Mrs. Klubobfrau Dr. Nachbaur is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e11597	Mr President. Dear Mrs Heinisch-Hosek! Representatives of the House! Dear taxpayers! What is currently being seen in school policy is the first impact of government debt policy. The data leak is now simply advanced, because almost everyone makes online banking nowadays and therefore has to be clear: It can take no longer than a few hours to repair such a data leak. In fact, the education sector also faces drastic cuts because of the Hypo Alpe-Adria bank. Unfortunately, because of these high debts, the government can no longer ensure that the future generation receives a good education. The red-green German federal states – Berlin, Bremen and North Rhine-Westphalia – have a warm greeting. It turns out that the debt company lives hard at the expense of the children, the young people and the still unborn, who can best resist. Of course, the BIFIE is responsible for the data leak, and the Minister has political responsibility. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The data leak is probably a welcome occasion for her to blacken PISA, and also wonderfully suited to deposit the flop at the New Middle Schools. If Austria no longer invests in education and especially in competitive schools and a competitive school system, then the entire economic location will suffer. The rejection of the PISA test for 2015 is also a damage to our business location. The Austrian students are already internationally only in bad middle ground. In the case of non-participation, Austria ranks in a category of countries from Africa and Asia, as all OECD countries participate. The reputation of our country as a reliable economic location suffers with well-trained professionals. We need national and international educational minimum standards, and we can only do so through autonomous schools that compete with each other. What is supposed to count is performance and not equalizing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e11639	Mrs Mlinar. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e11661	Mr President. Appreciate Mrs Education Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Spoštovane lady in gospodje! Mrs Bundesminister, one of the same pre-eminents: The rejection of international educational standard tests is not an option from the point of view of NEOS. Why? – PISA, the Programme for International Student Assessment, is a major educational research programme for the regular collection and international comparison of the basic skills of 15 to 16-year-old students. If the education strategy is sufficiently far-reaching, it is possible to identify what that is, a quality management for the education system. PISA is also a measure of the effectiveness of educational policies. I'll give it to Mr Elmayer, Mr Elmar Mayer. [[General hustle and bustle.]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: Because of the dog or because of dancing?]] - Excuse me! I agree with Mr Elmar Mayer that this is not a self-interest. [[Abg. Stroll: A Vorarlberger too!]] - All Vorarlberger, very good. The goal of education in general and of course also of standard education tests is, of course, equal opportunities. That is, the only thing that empowers us to live a self-determined life is, of course, education. This is the basis for social mobility. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I know what I am talking about. I'm Carinthian Slovenian. I went to the Federal Gymnasium for Slovenians, first generation Matura, first generation study, and that was my ticket for the life I want to lead and that I lead. This is what ultimately gives me the strength and courage to stand here and to work hard to ensure that the next generation also has the same conditions. When we went to school, the situation was another one. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and MEPs of the Greens.]] So what do we need studies that discuss education? – PISA serves as a degree knife and for international comparison so that we know where we stand, where our students stand and whether they can compete internationally. We need this comparison. This was unanimously decided in the 1990s by the Conference of Ministers for Education. As Mr Jank correctly said, Austria is a founding member of the OECD, and as such we have been participating in this study since the beginning. What are we doing through these surveys? – It is perfectly clear: What we want are strategies and quality developments to support national education systems. For what? To be able to compete in international competition. The aim must be to empower our young people to be so well equipped that they can go anywhere at European and international level and compete everywhere. I have already raised a question to the government: Do we really believe that the situation of pupils in Austria is so good that we can actually neglect this review, this quality assurance? Where would we, if we did not know that there are great differences in performance between boys and girls – which in itself is a tragedy – that there is a big problem with students with migration backgrounds, who lose the connection that the reading weakness remains, and that, as mentioned earlier, a quarter of the 15-year-olds cannot read sufficiently meaningfully and one fifth of the 15-year-olds have great difficulties in calculating and writing? We have preached this up and down in the election campaign, people have chosen us to do so, and we will continue to work to address these shortcomings. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think it's a great secret if we assume that we send our children to school to read, write, and calculate. Letting out the tests by no means improves the situation, but is actually nothing but a bird-strout policy. The last PISA study dates back to 2012. However, we can assume that the results will not significantly improve in 2015. That is why we think it is wrong to allow these tests to be suspended. We need a list of improvement potentials that ensure continuous development. Finally, as has been said, it is only a matter of making the opportunities for our children as great as possible that we equip them with a handcraft and that children can lead a life as successful, self-determined and self-responsible as they choose it for themselves. Only once again as clarification and summary: The suspension of the tests is not an option for us, not against the background of the need to save – that would be fatal from the point of view of NEOS – and not against the background of the known data leak. There is a need to provide secure servers. Education must be comparable. There we are with PISA, but also with the Bologna process in reality only at the beginning of a wide and, anyway, difficult path, but we have to go this way. This is also a basis for a well-functioning internal market and for greater mobility within Europe. Finally, I would like to point out once again our request, tabled by my colleague Strolz, and ask you to support us in this regard. - Hvala lepa.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e11729	Mrs Maurer has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e11750	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Heinisch-Hosek, you argue that these tests are stopped with a alleged data uncertainty. In principle, I would like to welcome the fact that this Federal Government would improve its awareness of data security and data protection, for example in a discussion on the ELGA electronic health act. In this discussion, however, I think this is a proposed argument. I cannot follow the technical side of your argumentation. First it's called it's about a data leak. This interpretation has been from the table for a long time. [[Federal Minister Heinisch-Hosek: This is in the newspaper! I didn't say that!]] We now know it wasn't a data leak. Then it was again and again – and it is still called, although we know that too – that it was a hack. That's not right either. What has happened, according to Kapsch’s spokesman, is that an insider has built a so-called backdoor, a secret access that could be accessed to this database located on this Romanian server. This “secret door” is already on the 25th. It was closed in February. On his homepage, BIFIE writes exactly what data could be accessed – even by a few who had the URL, but well. These were e-mail addresses of teachers and the scores of students, however, anonymized. Now you argue that because of this history the tests have to be exposed, as data security is not guaranteed. That door's closed now, it's closed. Of course, it is not excluded that this database has been downloaded and can also be misused. But it's about this one database. According to BIFIE, there is no access to other data. In view of your argument, I wonder how, by stopping testing, you want to prevent the misuse of this data. This story is not an argument – neither from the technical nor from the content – to reject all testing. They also said in the teaching committee that it was unclear how the schools should keep USB sticks. – I'm sorry, but you can't be serious. How did the schools keep paper sheets so far? That's not a new problem. That means we have to be able to deal well with these days! It is hard to suspect that you are proposing data security here in order to prevent unpleasant results of education policy. Now, in general, on the recruitment in Austria with regard to international studies. I am a classical teacher child – mother and father are both teachers. I grew up in the very naïve faith that Austria had one of the best education systems in the world. Elisabeth Gehrer wrote this in 2005 also in press releases. International tests like PISA have awakened us from this faith. I remember the discussions about this. On one side: What do we need that for? – typical Austrian – and on the other hand: The results cannot, at any rate, vote because: What do others in other countries know about the education system in Austria? But these results – with all methodological and content criticism, which is, of course, necessary and correct – have led to the fact that education policy cannot continue in the style of red and black governments, and that is why they are so relevant. The exit from PISA is a fatal step. This not only affects 2015, but it has far more far-reaching consequences. As Erich Neuwirth mentioned in his blog: If in 2015 we are not involved in the creation of tasks for the natural sciences, the tasks are also not focused on Austria, as far as the 2018 and 2021 surveys are concerned. Thus, with the exit from these tests, we are unable to compare the length of the distance, the comparison with regard to the development of the performances of our students, and secondly, this is also an international blamage. Their decision to suspend these tests is unfortunately prototypical for dealing with scientific foundation of politics in Austria. This is also reflected, for example, in the willingness to publish studies commissioned by this government. You always have to beg for this very much. This decision to suspend these tests, Mrs Minister, is hasty and provincial. By this answer you have suspected that you want to prevent your policy from being assessed on an empirical basis, unfortunately even further hardened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e11792	Next speaker: Mrs Gusenbauer-Jäger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e11813	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors! I am surprised which waves hit the topic of PISA again and again – whether it was when we discussed the first results, or whether it was now because we are discussing the suspension of the PISA tests. Now I have to make a sidestep. I am also surprised when people stand out here and talk about school, which I think seems to have no idea of it. Mr Lugar, I have the right to address you here. You can't imagine a weaker student learning about a better thing? I don't think you have much idea of school. Let someone understand this better! You'll see, you can learn something. That's how it goes in class. [[Abg. Kitzmüller: But the better one has to explain something to him!]] [[Abg. Lugar: I missed the argument! Tell me the argument!]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: Mr Lugar has missed the argument!]] [[Rejoicing with representatives of the SPÖ.]] In principle, I am pleased that the economy has an interest in education. It is important that education is in all mouths. However, I also have to say that at that time, when the PISA tests were introduced, these comparative tests were also harshly criticised by these bodies for the introduction of these tests. Now it is said suddenly from the same or almost the same series, the suspension of the tests brings lasting damage to the economic location. I'm a little surprised at such statements. Of course, we are not comparable if we do not currently participate in these tests, but there is not only a punctual test, but it is often tested, and there we are very similar. But let's stay on the ground of reality! PISA tests – that's not all that makes education. The education standards and all that is tested are not all that constitutes teaching. Whoever has ever been in a class will be able to confirm that. I therefore also welcome the decision made by our Minister that the PISA tests will be suspended this time. Finally, the backgrounds have not yet been clarified why there has been something going out, which should not have been. It seems to have been a targeted attack, and it was no carelessness or slutting. Investigations are still under way. Until then, it is important to restore confidence in data protection. Data security is of great importance in our population, and this is also true of students, educators and educators. We should take that seriously. We should take the development in our education system as seriously as we do. As I have mentioned, the PISA tests are just a small part of our education system. If I can still address the exclusive entrances of a federal state here: I know very well that a single test in Upper Austria is currently under discussion. I cannot welcome this, because the comparability would be smaller and actually not representative. I welcome it when the University of Applied Sciences Hagenberg is mentioned here, because Hagenberg is a place in my immediate vicinity, but still it would not be representative if only in Upper Austria were to be tested. There are important steps in this education system, such as our New Secondary School, which is now in place, in which a great deal of work is done. That is where we should leave our work in peace and not be driven by unwarranted criticism of those who do good work. The New Secondary School will be evaluated. If it turns out that improvements are necessary, then they will be made very well and will have to be made. I would like to stress once again: I am pleased that the economy and the population in general are so interested in education. Education is currently in all mouths and, if we continue this way, finally gets the importance it deserves. It is also intended to be a concern for the whole population and a concern for the economy, which is an important part of education. Let us take new steps, let us start a reform of education across all sides! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e11882	This is what the honourable Member is talking about. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e11903	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It can be seen here in the afternoon already a level of attention comparable to that between the fifth and sixth hours of teaching. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that if we practice criticism here, then it is a question of addressing the things that are not running optimally. And at the BIFIE data leak, which actually serves as a source for this discussion, one must also ask: Is it true or not? Is it a leak? Has data been deliberately withdrawn? Who is responsible for BIFIE? – This is the Ministry of Education. But to conclude that the PISA tests are to be stopped and no longer to be carried out is wrong, because evaluation is always necessary. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] We know – even our group has repeatedly criticized the PISA tests, they are not the Gospel – we need evaluation. Especially now that we have introduced a new form of schooling with the New Secondary School, this would be very necessary. Yes, there is also evaluation in our own country, and we also have to discuss the Court of Auditors' report on the New Secondary School, and there will still be some material. But I believe that criticism must also go in the international direction if it is to say that the OECD has been disturbed. It is a bad signal externally, not to have these tests carried out anymore. And it was a radical solo entrance. Neither the experts nor the school partners have been involved, and this accusation must also be addressed. The question is above all what goes on then, what it looks like with the central matura. We're just a few months ahead of this matura. The central matura is generally a subject that is in fact very critical. It is not the right signal to bring in instability again, and the question is ultimately also what you think is generally of performance checks. If the federal states now want to take the initiative and do it themselves, the question arises where we put competence in the field of education. The calls are becoming louder whether education and school policies would in part not be better abolished by the federal states. If performance checks are rejected, the question also arises as to how one is finally faced with the learning success of the internal school review and whether grades are still desired at all or everything is good by itself. If one here defines self-realization as the highest freedom, we must also consider which signals we send with it: Do we still need the notes or send signals anyway by saying that buying without money is okay, driving without ticket, working, when it is fun to spend as long as I want? What values do we ultimately convey? We should be very careful here. Our prosperity and our standard of living, the social system depends very much on the willingness and performance of our citizens. The foundation for this is laid in school, which is why all school partners must be involved in serious questions. If one does not involve the coalition partner in such decisions, I ask at least to involve the school partners.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e11958	Mrs Kitzmüller has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e11979	Mr President. Minister! Her ministerial activity has not begun under a good star, she has just begun a data leak. The bad thing about it is that you have responded with an enormous delay and informed us very, very late. In itself, if I look at today's answer to your question, it was extremely poor. And I must say that we Members who ask these questions here have not deserved – and not our students and the Austrian population at all – to be held with such a nebulous answer. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Since it was previously said that Upper Austria is too small to carry out extra PISA tests there, I can only ask: Have you looked at the size of Luxembourg? - They're doing that too. That is why I believe that these size arguments are already very sluggish. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But moving the PISA tests now is the wrong statement. Do you perhaps want to point out, with this shift in the tests, years of socialist education policy, which has obviously been broken down and has shown a lot of shortcomings, because the level in schools has been very low? Especially when you're talking about having no school notes. In addition to the Vorarlbergers, the Upper Austrians have also expressed their support for the fact that the PISA tests are to be carried out. The Upper Austrian state councillor Hummer is very likely to be particularly active in Upper Austria. play this study can be carried out. I don't think it makes sense to delay these tests for years and thus have no continuous testing to be able to really compare. Do you really want to distract you from the failure of education policy? This is, of course, the most important question. Ladies and gentlemen, why is such fear that a test will take place in Upper Austria alone? Are you afraid to see that education policy in Upper Austria is better than that in the federal government? This is a question which, of course, is also raised here. Nevertheless, I would like to say now that if countries such as Mexico and Greece participate in the study and Austria do not, then we also need very much explanation. I would now like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] It is important to keep testing as in the future. What does one have if between them is a hole and we have to start at the hour zero again and let the other be simple and forget? – Even more so where we have a new secondary school, of which it is not true that it is so much better than the gymnasium, or, as it was said, the secondary schools and the normal primary schools. These are all comparisons that don't vote, which are limping. And there is fear of that now, and that is the reason why PISA is being exposed.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e12064	The application is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e12119	Next speaker: Mrs Schenk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e12140	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In the field of education there is much else in the arrogance, which has shown today's debate. We have cleared out small stones in the last period – we have also voted in favour of some sensible things – but there are still large chunks in front of us, which shows today's debate. This requires a transparent education system and a school autonomy for Austria, and I will make a final request. I would like to take a brief look at the urgent question. The Minister did not address the question of why she did not take up the proposal by the Upper Austrian State Councillor Hummer. This meant that data security could be guaranteed in a few weeks and referred to the University of Applied Sciences Hagenberg. Mrs. Minister, I have missed in your reply that you are addressing it. I also do not understand why there is no possibility here of quickly eliminating the data leak and, as planned, of participating in the PISA test. You have addressed data protection, Mrs. Minister, and that he is an important concern to you. Now I'm asking But she's: Why is the Federal Government not giving a statement on the planned free trade agreement? [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The alleged data leak in BIFIE is nothing against us, ladies and gentlemen. There is much in the arrogance, and this would be an important area, especially in the context of the NSA affair, where you, Mrs Minister, should provide information and inform us here in Parliament and also the Austrian population. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We know, Mrs. Minister, that you are a fighter of quotas, including forced quotas. You also mentioned in the press hour that you now want to prescribe private companies how they have to occupy their supervisory councils, what it is supposed to look like with the quotas. But now I ask you: How does it look in your own resort? You, Mrs. Federal Minister, are now responsible for the educational centre. If I look at the final figures of Statistics Austria – you know that the teachers are mostly female, but I am now explicitly referring to the school teachers – there are only 8 percent male teachers at our folk schools. However, we know from many studies, ladies and gentlemen, which were also made by ministerial offices that it is important for children in kindergarten and folk school to have male references, say kindergarten teachers and folk school teachers. Madam Minister, I would like to ask you to answer why you are not working here. Because here you could put it into practice. What is it like here with a quota? Start a quota in the kindergarten or with the folk school teachers! There the Austrians, especially the children who are our future, always so much like to say, would certainly be helped. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Finally, I should like to refer to the motion for a resolution referred to at the outset. We are no longer competitive in Austria. We must be competitive again with our education system, and this is only with a complete reform, with the aim of autonomous and slim school administration and with uniform requirements by the federal government, ladies and gentlemen. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, especially from the ÖVP and SPÖ parties, I may ask you to agree to this request – and of course the invitation is also addressed to all opposition parties.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e12241	The application is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e12325	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e12346	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President, you are so beautifully saying, Mr "Magischter", that you feel at home as a Vorarlberger. A very important point in the debate is data protection, mentioned several times. In the free, democratic society in which we live, every citizen has certain fundamental rights and fundamental freedoms. We can decide for ourselves which religion we belong to, where we go on vacation, how we paint our kitchen, but we can only partially decide what happens to our data. We can decide when to use the customer card for the supermarket, when and where we use our mobile phone, or whether we even miss it and what we do with the Internet. But what you can't do is go to school and not participate in tests. And that's where the problem starts. The data collected by public authorities about me, without having the opportunity to resist, is not being handled as carefully as they would be. It is simply embarrassing for the rule of law how it protects the fundamental rights and the data of its citizens. If test results, e-mail addresses of students and teachers are available on the Internet unprotected for weeks, on a foreign server, sensitive data that can be accessed if you find them on the Internet, the state has also violated its obligation to protect the citizens. It is not about adults who can decide for themselves where to give their data, but about children who go to school, who can have no awareness of the sensitivity of data at all, and it is about their parents who trust that their children and the data of their children are treated with reasonable and decentness. And there lies the real scandal of this story. We can talk for hours about what intelligence services do with our data and so on. But the question is: What happens when the state collects our data? Of course, data must be collected so that we can have these studies so that we can have this international comparability. But there is a need for a republic, which is first capable and second, willful to protect this data. – Willig is likely to be the problem in the present case, for it has been known for some time that data has come out here before it has been implemented. And now? – Now the data leak is closed, okay. But what is the reaction? – One does not go here and question the access to the subject of safety, but once again leaves the tests for safety reasons. The Republic also collects citizens' data at all corners and ends in other areas. We have also repeatedly attached our criticism of data storage, and you also know what is in the Opinion of the Advocate General at the ECJ regarding data storage of stocks. Germany has responded, and we have not even started a discussion. We from NEOS have called for a suspension of the inadequate data storage. There's nothing passing. I'm just wondering what kind of scandal we need, so that we can finally start doing things here. We remember that it is not yet so far back that letters and emails came from the GIS with the information that the account data has moved outside. We remember the data of the Tyrolean local health insurance fund, which is, as it were, crawling around the Internet. – This shows the importance of data protection for public institutions. It's embarrassing! Data collections are attractive to all possible people, especially if they are data collections in such quantities. The possibilities of abuse are inconceivable, and it seems to me that the necessary sensitivity is still lacking in the Federal Government and in the secondary places in this regard. So, first of all, we do not need data collection, but data saving, and the data collected must be handled carefully. The State must take effective and targeted measures to protect its citizens and, in fact, to protect the State itself.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e12400	Mrs Holzinger has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e12422	Dear visitors to the gallery! Estimated citizens who are on TV or the Internet! Dear Colleagues! We are discussing today a situation in which there is a lack of data security. And here we are not talking about test results or the like, but specifically about personalised data from students who need to protect it. Therefore, there will be a short-term suspension of these tests which are now under way. I think that this decision of the Minister is to be respected. I've been following this over the last few weeks. I found the statement made earlier to be very interesting that it was an overcrowded and not professional decision. I wonder if it was a professional decision to ask, from the first moment one knew about it, that Mrs Minister should resign because she has the responsibility to do so. I think it's professional, just as it is now handled, that you look at yourself: Where is the problem?, and then we'll do the tests again, because finally it's about the personal data of many students and many parents. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Unfortunately, Mr Kitzmüller is no longer here, she has said that we want to distract from the failure of a social-democratic education policy. [[Abg. Lueger: A socialist!]] – A socialist, apologise. I wonder, Has it received the seven years of FPÖ government participation, a government participation where education has been left on the whole line, a government participation where there has been reform and where cuts in hours and teachers have been on the agenda? I really have to ask her, and I'm really excited about the answer, whether you're saying something. However, I would like to make a very different point, as is the case with the results of the education standards we receive. It has already been said that Mr Lugar has: It's all too expensive and too little efficient. So we put the competition criteria in the right place, we don't even think that there are children behind them, who also have social needs. I find that “super. ” But let's look at it: Why are the costs so high? What is the value of this training? It's a whole new kind of school. It's clear once and for all. It should be ensured by smaller classes and more educators just an optimal care key. Of course, that costs something. [[Abg. Lugar: It doesn't work!]] There are new forms of teaching and learning. Of course, that costs something. And the integration of BMHS and AHS teachers, e-learning et cetera, of course also cost something. But we need to know: Do we want that, or don't we want it? Do we want more attention to be paid to the young people and their social talents and their ability to be promoted or not? All this costs money, but if we want to build on the foundation for the next generation, for the future, then that must also be worth us. Then why don't the services supposedly fit or they don't fit our ideas? I do not think it is a reason why we are immediately throwing the flint into the grain, but I think it is the right way to go with the New Middle School, because the first results also show that it is a school form that better compensates for the children, namely under the different social standards, and allows the children with migration background more opportunities and education justice. That's very well, and that's exactly where we want to go: We want to increase education justice and the New Secondary School as a rule school. Only until 2018 should all locations be transferred. We are now at an introductory stage, and at an introductory stage, improvements and proposals may also be made. Of course, that should be so, and that must be so, and it must also be addressed. But I think the worst thing is if you just go against this with plump rejection and say it's too expensive, it's too little efficient. So we'll go back to the pile and we'll give everyone the best to the gymnasium. Much more important than this stage of introduction, which simply takes time – teachers have to get used to it, students have to get used to it – is the fact that we have created an internally differentiated school with the New Middle School, which should build on the talents and take into account the different social backgrounds. But the problem we are facing is the social mix, which is not currently given to the extent that we want it to be. I think a child doesn't come to the world and is either hot or stupid. That is why I think it is also negligent to simply say that you do two types of school, one for the business and one for those not so talented. That's how it's presented. I believe that we need a school in which all children get the best promotion, which is differentiated inwards and in which the most diverse talents find a corresponding consideration. This is the social mix that the New Secondary School absolutely needs, in this direction it has to go. The results of the education standards now simply to use to say that is all bad is the wrong way. These are misinterpretations that hinder the future of Austria and the future of our students. Therefore, I ask for support that we bring together more social interference in the New Middle School. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e12478	Mr Asdin El Habbassi spoke. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e12499	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There has already been a lot of talk about education today, and I would like to start with something positive. I like the fact that this issue has been dealt with so constructively by all the political groups or almost all the political groups today. I must say quite honestly, Mr Lugar, your speech about the teachers has already met me deeply, because they are the ones who give their best daily to give our students the best possible education. And just hacking on that, so indifferent and negative, I think it's very inappropriate when I'm allowed to say so. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Prince: You have to check it out, he can't do it better!]] But I would also like to thank the colleagues who have asked this urgent question today because the subject is important. I am also very grateful to you, Mrs Minister, for giving the issue of data security such a high priority and that: They show that this sensitive issue is really being taken seriously. I also like you to say that you want to provide data obtained from certain tests and surveys for research and further processing in the future. I believe that this is the right step towards a fact- and evidence-oriented policy and is to be welcomed. We have, perhaps you have read it, said in the preamble to the government programme that people rightly demand reliability and stability. We also say and promise that we will give answers on the subject of education, which will be directed towards the best education for our children. Once you let this go a little bit, I stand here as a Member of Parliament and have to say that I feel obliged to support the government constructively, but I see myself above all as a lawyer for the young people in Austria who are preparing for the matura. I see myself as a lawyer of those who want to make a fact-based policy and who need foundations for it, and I see myself as a lawyer of those who are important to education policy. As such, I have a little abdominal pain when testing, PISA tests and others are now being exposed on the grounds: Data leak. It is like the colleague Maurer that I do not know why I cannot make surveys, which I can almost digitize later, where there are already offers from various institutes to make the servers available or to carry out these tests. There are other questions. You say the tests must be carried out in these weeks, the OECD says we have until September. That's where I wonder – especially when the woman Holzinger addresses the New Middle School: Why, then, do we want to suspend tests and procedures which enable us to have a long-term perspective and which are also cyclically designed to provide us with data on how these school reforms actually affect us? I believe it is already important to carry out these tests if one is committed to making policy based on facts and data. Against this background, I am unfortunately not able to understand the measures that are now being taken. I also wonder how you are arguing to the students who are preparing for the Matura right now, and to the teachers, if you explain to them just as announced at the beginning of April, how the Matura will then take place in May. I am a little shaken when the opposition comes to the impression that the suspension of the PISA tests serves to conceal perhaps unpleasant test results during this term of office in order to prevent data from coming up on the New Secondary School that are not in our minds. As a former student representative, I wonder: Why is it not possible to involve the school partners, parents, teachers and experts in this field in such a serious discussion, and thus to have some confidence in such a decision? On behalf of education, on behalf of pupils and on behalf of a qualitative and evidence-based policy, I would like to ask you to consider this decision and perhaps to consider whether it is possible to implement these tests and accept the various offers. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e12546	Mrs Ing. Dietrich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e12567	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Minister! High house! Education is an essential foundation for an economy, and Austria can look back on a great past. We have had many Nobel Laureates in recent decades, but that is more than long when you look back. For example, in 1945 in physics we had the last Nobel Prizewinner, in medicine in 1978. [[Abg. Arbitrators: And literature?]] In the field of chemistry we really were once a great power: 1923, 1925, 1938 and fortunately 2013, one again. [[Abg. crochet: And Jelinek?]] This standard that Austria has fulfilled is history. The data leak, Mr President, may be a problem, but that is not the big problem we have. Our problem is that the quality of education is falling from year to year, that Austria – you can see this in the PISA studies – is getting worse and worse. If we take out reading, we are already so bad that we are in the lower section in the OECD comparison. That is, we are no longer above, no longer where those countries are where the economy is also working well, where there are well-trained apprentices, well-trained students, where something is touching, but we are cutting off. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the real disaster. If only more than 5 percent of students can read meaningfully and are on the top level, namely among those who have competence values between 5 and 6, then it is probably more than bad about this education system. Other states have considered something, and especially the East Asian states are overtaking us at Weitem. In Shanghai, one of the leading cities, the children of comparable age are still in education for three years. That means that we are obviously – yes, Mr Schieder, you are satisfied that our education system is permanent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: No, but do you want such an Asian drill?]] I do not want a “Asian Drill”, but I would like to point out – we are in international competition – that we must work hard to make our education system fly and that it is clearly the wrong way, as it has been for the last decades. [[Abg. Arbitrators: So, right?]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: I want children who also have time to play!]] The fact that this path is wrong also shows up at the universities. It can be satisfactory for no one here that no more university is among the top 100. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The Uni Wien is lowered to 110 to 120, the TU Wien is only more on place 160 to 170. What answers does the government give to this dilemma? An answer is the New Secondary School. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is probably more than a miscarriage. If you look at how the students cut off at the tests, you have to say: This project has failed. That is clearly the wrong way. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We need to go back to quality. We must go into individual support. We must also grant schools the competence to choose the teachers themselves, and the parents must be able to choose the director again. Ladies and gentlemen! Education is the foundation of the economy, and with this government we break our foundation.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e12678	Mrs Mag. Grossmann has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e12699	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, my predecessor has proved how ideological the topic of education is. Here really are, you can see it on every occasion, the ideologies, the world pictures on each other. The news of the obvious attack on data in the area of BIFIE has hit us all like lightning. A lot of comprehensive data protection violations have recently occurred worldwide, but if educational data is affected when children are affected, this naturally shakes us all the more. And here the minister responded immediately after the incident became known. It has led to a comprehensive data security check covering not only technical infrastructure but also the structure of cooperation and decision-making processes. Of course, the human factor plays a major role again and again. It also had to pay for criminal charges and the Federal Criminal Office. So the Minister has put in place all measures to limit or, better formulated, to prevent future damage, especially of confidence; for if young people and their teachers, teachers, are involved in a test procedure such as PISA, then one really must be able to make sure that the data is used accordingly and is not getting into the wrong hands. As a result, the minister demonstrated a sense of responsibility through the one-time suspension of the PISA test and demonstrated impressively the ability to manage the crisis. One must also undoubtedly say that the PISA testing and other test methods give us very valuable feedback on quality development. That is exactly what social democracy has repeatedly supported and confirmed in its education concepts. So what kind of motive would we have to hide this PISA testing, as it is put in the room again and again and again and, I say, it's supposed to be? Absolutely the opposite is the case. We need these test methods in order to improve the quality of education in Austria. But every risk has to be eliminated as well. You can imagine the feeling that young people are doing such a test if it is not ensured that everything is done here that the data is not getting into the wrong hands. I'm sure, too, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen: If the Minister had decided otherwise and had acted as if nothing had been done, and had been loose, loosely over the data protection issue, we would also debate a urgent matter here, with the same prosecutors, but with other charges. [[Abg. Brosz: But this is very cheap!]] So it is obviously a question of adapting a successful, skilled minister and dissuading education policy in Austria. We must not allow that to happen, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e12737	As the last speaker, Mrs Rosenkranz spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e12760	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! It is good that an educational debate has taken place on the occasion of this data leak. I am right for my previous speaker, and, of course, educational debates are highly worldlyly charged, because, in this area, what a group of people and of the world holds, is particularly evident. And above all, it is good that this debate has been held because it is really in annoyance in this area – and people know it too. You may remember, it was three weeks ago, I think, in the “Kronen Zeitung” an article on what is wrong in education, with exactly the right approach: It used to be all right, and now it's bad. There's been a flood of letters that haven't stopped until today. I still have two children in school myself, eight I've already spent. When you talk to parents, it's seen like this: It was excellent still at the time when I went to school, for example, with a few details that were to be improved, and it is now entirely in the arrogance. [[President Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] Mrs. Minister! They say it is not gratifying that Austria does not participate in international testing. This is really cute – in reality it is a veritable Blamage. You also have to deal with the assumption, with the accusation, rightly – you wonder how you can do such a thing – that you have seen this data leak as a welcome occasion to exclude yourself from these tests. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is clear from the roofs that the New Secondary School is not at all the solution to the problems it should solve, but quite the contrary: The level has become even worse. And also, ladies and gentlemen, the social compensation is not nearly reached. What happens with regard to this issue is that especially in the agglomerations and precisely where the integrated school is necessarily introduced, everyone who can afford it – be honest! – disappear into a private school and thus the social stratification becomes much stronger. Those from far-reaching shifts have no chance at all of overcoming the stigma of their origin by being the first to achieve a higher degree of education. In the past, it was possible: You could be the first to mate. You could be the first to go to college. You could be a farmerbub from the forest quarter – I have a historian in the head, who was a more important one in this century, namely Otto Brunner – than 13. Child from a farm family really achieves an exposed position in the science business. Try You're going to do this today! It will hardly work on the New Secondary School. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, this decline in quality suggests that it is not just by-products and details that do not run. And so it is. I can try to address three basic things that are wrong, where a wrong path has been taken. First, people are equal to dignity and to their right, but they are different in their inclinations and talents. Whoever has several children can confirm that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Same parents, same education: If I looked at my children's school careers – horribly, I should have boxed them all through the same school! The whole school system is justifiable. It is a matter of ensuring that it is permeable. It's fine vista. As we all know, more students reach the Matura via the primary school and then a higher school than the long form of the AHS. It's permeable. And when it comes to the justice that I am pressing for as you do, you have to be careful that everyone in that school in which he can best develop his inclinations, his talents. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There is no point in evading, Mr deputies. That means frustration with one another and frustration with the other. That's also what: The chances of success and failure can best be optimised – prevent or at least reduce failure and increase the chances of success – if you pay attention to a system in which everyone is in that branch – but for this there must be branches first, there must be a structured school system in which he can best claim. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The second premise I would like to present is: Watch out for very small children at the game! This seriousness, this persistence, as you know, only comes near geniuses. Small people are full of curiosity, full of knowledge, and they are also willing to take considerable effort to conquer the world, to acquire it. So they're ready for performance from scratch. What the school has to do now is to lead them to learn, train and continue to do this systematically and continuously, even when it becomes laborious. Of course, it takes good teachers, that's not a question. But there is clearly a principle – and this old sentence is said to be true: No price at all! – The children are ready to do so. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A school that refuses to demand performance makes people smaller than he is. The third, also a ambiguity: We learn for life and not for school. The school must not be a biotope that is non-life. And here's the question of the notes: Failed projects, successful projects, failure and success – this is the basic condition of a life. It can be life - sustaining to have learned to digest a failure, learn from it, and turn to success again. It is not a solution that you do not want to do so, for example by abolishing notes to let children grow up in this training. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Summary: Austria's education policy has made it a highly improved one from a former example of schooling. Nor will it be better, Mrs Minister, if you do not make an assessment. What it takes is a rethinking, a return to the start and a real reform!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e12888	I call Mr Walser. Total residence time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e12910	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! I have now listened very carefully to the debate. In fact, there was no single argument from the Social Democracy colleagues why this test had to be cancelled. We have heard very nice educational statements that I can most of the time sign, but I have not heard anything about rejection. I have also heard no argument all afternoon that would have meant that there is a data leak at BIFIE. I repeat: There is no data- Lick the BIFIE! There's none! The colleague, Mr Mayer, has not mentioned anything, but we have a data leak at Kapsch's company, which we do not know exactly how it happened that it is on a test server in Romania, but no data leak in Vienna, no data leak at BIFIE. This is a central point – and there are no valid reasons for the rejection of the tests. Mrs. Minister, you said that they had to put the tests to the test once. The dimension, which means, has been made clear by various speakers today. This testing and the next year's testing are repeated in three years and six years with identical questions. Because of your rejection this year we are blocked here at nine years regarding valid statements about the development of our students. So you can't just put it out and get back in a few years later. It's not that easy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Therefore, once again our call: Go back this step! Try to take into account the arguments that have been presented to you internationally by OECD experts in Austria, by BIFIE itself, from your coalition partner even quite massively! Go back this step and revise your decision! With regard to your decision, I would like to make one really essential point: Mrs. Minister, according to BIFIE, you were not entitled to suspend these tests. I have once again looked at this opinion. In the meantime, I have also looked at the explanations of the law. It's quite clear: Their tasks relate exclusively to the requirements for three-year plans. The BIFIE is an outsourced institution in which you are not an institution and are not entitled to refer. There must be no instructions from your side to suspend this testing, and the directors are required to comply with the valid three-year plan for the years 2014, 2015 and 2016. That's valid! This is confirmed by the Supervisory Board. This has even been confirmed by you. By the way, in 2008, the legislator had good reasons why it did not provide for political influence, and the time since then has also confirmed this. It was filed in an anonymous letter last year by BIFIE employees about party policy, about political influence. After leaving, Director Günter Haider confirmed this political influence, confirming that data had to be withheld because the results did not match. So: Go back and think about it! Do what your coalition partner has done to you in remarkable clarity – for example, my colleague, who has said quite clearly, we must carry out these tests. Mr President, we are still giving you the opportunity to vote for it today. There will then be a vote. The implementation of the vote you want – this can be achieved. All the other colleagues from the ÖVP are also cordially invited to do what their experts in the federal states want, what the President of the Chamber of Commerce wants. Mr Haubner, support your President – you are actually obliged to do so from a professional point of view – to support our proposal and make it You're going to end that drive! We need the data, we need valid statements about our education system, and we cannot permanently damage the educational location of Austria with such Hauruck actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e12988	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Walser, colleagues, on: continuing education tests. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Strolz, colleagues, on the possibility of the implementation of the 2015 PISA study. Whoever gives this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kitzmüller, colleagues and colleagues on the possibility of pISA testing for individual states. Whoever gives this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Rejected. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Lugar, colleagues on ‘Transparency education system and school autonomy for Austria’. Again, I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who have given their approval to this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. [[16:12:13]] Short debate on the reply to the question 359/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e13064	We are now entering the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Finance with the 359/AB order number. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure no speaker/no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes. The first speaker has a speaking time of 10 minutes for reasons. Comments from members of the Federal Government or State Secretary should not last more than 10 minutes. I am now looking for Mrs Mag. Meinl-Reisinger as an applicant for the request to open the debate. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e13099	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, Tax payers in front of computers and televisions! Our written request is already from the 7th century. Yes, and I'm clear, a lot has happened in the meantime. The insolvency scenario that we have spoken about or have asked for, even in this written request, is, if I may add it, unfortunately from the table, apparently very much to the pleasure of the SPÖ. Indeed, it has been possible to stress the risks associated with an insolvency scenario, especially the German Chancellor, who is not tired. I would like to tell you that I was at home sick yesterday and prepared for this special meeting today – I know, but that's the way it is; thank God only lasts 24 hours – and as I lie at home, I read about Twitter that yesterday the SPÖ-EU election took place in Vienna. [[Abg. Lopatka: It's not healthy!]] President Schulz has already been tried several times today. I was slightly irritated yesterday when I read in a Tweet of the SPÖ: “Europe, in which taxpayers have to pay for the losses of speculators, is not a fair Europe,” and I have already wondered whether you are actually aware of this irony, that on the day before the special meeting on Hypo with such an announcement in the EU election campaign start, and I have wondered whether the Federal Chancellor, who was there, has actually complained and perhaps also Mr Krainer and Mr Klubobmann. [[Abg. Krainer: Sure!]] I'm glad. But was that irony aware of you? [[Abg. Krainer: I don't think this is ironic either!]] Or did you not write to Mr Schulz enough that this special meeting is taking place today, where you are doing exactly what you are also recommending in your EU election programme, where you are expressing that you no longer want to accept that profits are privatized and losses are nationalized? Excuse me, that really does not deny any irony to make such statements the day before this special meeting, where it is clear that these losses will have to be borne by the taxpayer. [[Congratulations on Members of the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Krainer: There are also national liabilitys in the game!]] Yes, that's right, the country's liability is in play, and we're going to have to investigate that politically. Nevertheless, and that was one of the questions we have asked, we are going to examine it very politically. [[Abg. Krainer: We can't even examine that!]] [[Abg. Krainer: It can only examine the country, not the League!]] Today we have again a request from the opposition parties on the table – you can follow the request, Mr Krainer – and it is very likely that this will include questions relating to the period starting in 2000. Read it through, understand it, and then please agree! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] In January, we asked whether the Taskforce Hypo – I would like to continue my remarks. [[Abg. Krainer: the federal constitution! You can only examine the federal authorities with a Parliament's committee of inquiry, not that of the country!]] We'll be happy to talk later in the couloir if you have something to say to me. – We have asked the question of what resolution scenarios the Taskforce Hypo actually received as an investigative order, and it is already exciting to see, even in the answer that at that time the insolvency was actually not a topic at all in the Taskforce Hypo. I know that the task force has now been asked to do something about it, perhaps at the request of Mr Spindelegger, Minister of Finance. But you have to say: If you look at the final report of the Hypo Task Force, there is not much room for the insolvency scenario in it. It is expressed by the Task Force itself that only a very superficial or simplified insolvency examination has been carried out here, and I would like to expressly point out that it is also noted that the assessment of the insolvency scenario did not take into account any haircuts on certain liabilities. This is interesting, because it gives the impression that all the other scenarios were very carefully examined and that this insolvency scenario was only very superficial and that this was then highly pessimistic, even if an essential part of this overall or final opinion was concerned with presenting the statements of Oliver Wyman's report as not enough. Therefore, my assessment and also my recent question: Is one really seriously concerned with the insolvency scenario or – and this is also the question to the ÖVP, which, at least last week in the media, wanted to give the impression that one was trying to leave this topic, this scenario still on the table – was it really just a tacting, camouflage and deceiving for the media? It's quite clear: Tax payers will pay for these amounts and creditors will be protected. I would also like to tell you briefly that standard editor Andreas Schnauder reported this week about a quote of a suspected speculator on the trading platformbondboard.de, where the question was asked: “What am I doing with all the coal? Can someone give me a hint?” colleagues from Social Democracy! I would also like to write to you in the main books, which you actually protect with the rejection of the insolvency scenario. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Krainer: Carinthia! Carinthia and Carinthia!]] “Carinthia” is a good keyword, I would like to come back to it for a short while. We have heard about the federal states and about the fact that it is not possible to send a federal state into insolvency – which I very much regret, and we have also expressed this with requests for a real opportunity here. Hypo is the largest financial disaster in the Second Republic, and one of the biggest problems this Republic has is the real constitution. Negotiations with the countries where the bank levy will flow – it has been reported that one would try to carry out the bank tax exclusively on this purpose, namely to support this disaster, it should not be in the federal states in whose budgets flow – will be difficult due to the real constitution. This real constitution is actually a clot on the leg as far as the development of this republic is concerned. The hypo would have been the chance, not only to go into the subject of who takes the taxes and who actually spends this money, but also to find a new balance between the competences of the federal and federal states. Now, I'm sorry about this opportunity. I hope that at a later date we will come back to the fact that we really have to take the opportunity to come up with a real, new federalism reform. Now I come to Carinthia: I read yesterday on Twitter and today in the “Kurier” that it would not be possible to bust the future fund of Carinthia, because – said Salopp – the funds are already slipping because the returns coming from this future fund are supposed to be spent to finance the pleite of BAWAG. – So I would already like this federal state to take on a proper share. But is it really the case that these funds are already out of shape? My recent question, or my appeal, which is also contained in the motion for a resolution tabled today by the two club members: We urgently need clarity and transparency as regards the financial situation of the federal states! A final question: We have asked a question as to the challenge of the emergency treaty. Your answer, and I think this is very different, was that you gave the order for examination at an early stage – it would interest me – and also that you have asked the institutions of the hypo to examine the actual state of the bank at the time of the emergency. There is already the question: Do the institutions of the Bank not now know the actual state at the time of emergency nationalization? And, of course, the question arises – and we should clarify this in a committee of inquiry, we will discuss it again today: What did the Republic know? The documents available to us, including from the National Bank, point out very well that the financial situation and the need for further credit subsidies to the Hypo Alpe-Adria were well known at the time of nationalization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e13259	On the issue of an opinion, Mr Mag. Danninger to speak. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e13280	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Dear citizens at the audience and in front of the screens! With the present written request of the European Parliament on 7 June, the European Parliament adopted a number of amendments to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the In January 2014, the MPs have power. Beate Meinl-Reisinger, ladies and gentlemen, to the Federal Minister for Finance, put questions on a subject to which he has already made a statement to you today, namely the Hypo Alpe-Adria. Of course, we in the Ministry of Finance take our duty to speak and answer all the issues of execution very seriously. Transparency is not just a keyword for us, so the 23 questions from the written question in question were also answered in detail, although these were largely the subject of the around one hundred written parliamentary questions to the predecessors or the predecessor and the Federal Minister for Finance. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz]] It would therefore have been easy to draw your attention to the long-standing answers, but it is not a question of making it easy for us to do so. ==References== We are responsible for Austria's state budget on December 13, 2013. In recent weeks, the team around the Federal Minister for Finance, the experts involved, have been incredibly required to make a quick and final decision in this blue banking debacle. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Just as we speak and answer you to the events of the past, such as on the occasion of the reply to this written parliamentary question, we will also look forward and, in the coming weeks, again with all the transparency, under the ongoing involvement of the Financial Committee, in accordance with the motion for a resolution tabled by the Government parties today, we will present the further steps and discuss them with you. But we also need to draw lessons from this disaster together so that such incredible never repeats itself again. The processing of this banking scandal is not exclusively a matter for the Federal Government, but lies in the responsibility of all the political leaders of this Republic. We therefore insist on transparency and therefore also insist on the interest of all taxpayers that the institutions of the hypo as soon as possible Finally, valid figures on the 2013 financial statements are on the table, all expected capital requirements are disclosed in 2014 and the establishment of the unit is quickly implemented. You can take us by word here, you know, and we have already proved that. From the start of our task in the Ministry of Finance, we have seen it as our duty to develop and present, with the support of the best minds, the best choice for taxpayers and the economic location of Austria, with the utmost care and care. For the first quarter of 2014, we have promised to present the decision, and since Friday, 14th. In March 2014, there is now a real clarity about the further process in the largest banking scandal in the history of Austria. After 12 weeks of most intensive work and after weighing all possible options – and, Mrs. Colleague, that is also the answer to your question – we have decided on a limited liability unit and on contributions from all relevant interest groups to reduce the tax burden on taxpayers. In concrete terms, I mean the contribution of the country of Carinthia, a minimum contribution of € 500 million. We will also take part in the solution of the subordinate and participation capital. In this context, we are thinking about various possibilities, including legal measures. And thirdly, we will enter into negotiations for a general balance with Bavaria. There is still a hard piece of work in front of us, together we can and will also deal with it. With all the pressure from politics, the economy and the media, however, we must not lose sight of our top goal: to bring about a solution for the hypo with the greatest possible care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e13348	The speaking time of the Members who have now spoken shall be 5 minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Greiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e13372	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The Federal Chancellor and the Minister of Finance informed us in detail this morning about the further procedure in the Causa Hypo Alpe-Adria. A decision was taken after careful consideration of all the pro- and counter-arguments for the present solution proposals. It was decided to set up a mining company. What does that mean? – This means in concrete terms a division of the Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International, with the south-eastern European daughters sold and the remaining parts in a decommissioning company without general government liability. What are the next steps? – By June 2014 the required special law will be in place. Negotiations will follow with the Free State of Bavaria. Negotiations followed with the Banca d'Italia. And there are negotiations with the Federal Republic of Carinthia, namely negotiations on the extent to which Carinthia can make a fair contribution. It is right and important that a decision has been taken today for the establishment of the mining company. Why is that so important? And why is it so important that insolvency does not come? – Several studies, Mr Kogler, show that the consequences and costs of a solution to insolvency cannot be estimated. [[Abg. Kogler: Yes, why?]] Consequences and costs cannot be specifically designated or numbered. What else is talking about insolvency? – Insolvency would immediately become deficient, national liabilities would be beaten immediately. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Kogler.]] We are talking about an amount of €12 and €13 billion. What would have been the effect of insolvency? – Mounting advocates of insolvency, insolvency could be uncomplicated, controlled and dealt with quickly. Ladies and gentlemen, the very opposite is the case. May I recall some insolvency cases? – Think of the BHI bank! This insolvency is 19 years back, but is still not settled. Or think of the Rieger bank, think of the discount bank! None of these insolvencys were settled in a period of less than ten years. [[Abg. Kogler: Yes and?! That is the problem of the creditors!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] One question still arises: What would an insolvency mean for the Federal Republic of Carinthia? What would that have meant for the Carinthias? – The 12 to 13 billion remaining in national liability would be beaten immediately. The country of Carinthia would not be able to pay. The country would be threatened with forced execution. The national budget would immediately be reduced by two thirds, from €2.2 billion to € 800 million. In the case of national liabilities up to €13 billion, the proportions of earnings would be retained for about ten years. That is a lot of numbers, but, ladies and gentlemen, these figures are behind human fates. What does this mean for the more than 4,000 national servants in Carinthia? I already see the sword of threatening release hovering over them. What does that mean for kindergartens, for schools? . Everything that is not mandatory would be removed from the agenda, taken from the offer. What does this mean for the hospitals, for patients waiting for treatment in these hospitals? – You would wait a long time because the nurse is no longer coming because she may no longer get a fee. [[Abg. Kogler: There's no such thing as that! Go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go!]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Darmann and Mr Kitzmüller.]] What does this mean for the transport infrastructure? – For 2014 this pot is donated with 42 million €. The millions would not flow into the transport infrastructure, and what that would mean for road safety, you can calculate yourself. These examples show: You don't play with insolvency, and you don't play with human fates! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Darmann: You're doing that right now!]] Mr Darmann, the path taken today, namely the plan to establish a decommissioning society, is the right and important way out of the perspective of overall responsibility. [[Abg. Darmann: If you have such horror scenarios, play with human life! You're playing with human life!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] Parliament will be very strongly involved in the resolution of this solution. Ladies and gentlemen, I appeal to your responsibility: Prohibition Take this path constructively! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e13495	Mr Groiß. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Groiß on his report. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e13518	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! If someone says something a hundred times, he finally believes it himself. I think that is the principle that explains why we can have another debate on the same subject today. I do not think it is necessary for us to re-examination of the need to state why we wanted to prevent Lehman II for South-East Europe. It is not necessary that we note the following: The Oesterreichische Nationalbank says that 2.1 billion is needed to complete the topic in the long term, and that all the old believers have been involved accordingly. It is not necessary to say that our former Minister of Finance and the Bavarian Minister of Finance has put the capital replacement into play and, accordingly, no return has been made. It is not necessary to say that we were only capable of action after there were the EU decisions on the aid procedure, which were only available in September 2013. No, this is not necessary. We received a written answer. We have today been presented with a very detailed solution where all these questions have been answered in detail. I therefore believe that we do not have to spell out these issues again, and I thank you for the answer we have received today. I am pleased that we will be able to accompany this resolution in the future in the financial committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e13548	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Darmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e13570	Madam President. High house! Values Visitors at home, but also here in the house! If Mr Danninger here tries to say more or less crediblely that the Federal Government, in reply to the question, but also in dealing with the parliamentarians here in the House, is trying for transparency, even to the people, then unfortunately I have to hold fast – very reluctantly in the emotion to bring back here too – that this statement and the explanations regarding the refusal of a committee of inquiry, which would very probably bring more transparency into this whole of Causa, are not worth the paper on which they are written. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] When I recall the way in which the hypo-debate was debated this morning, ladies and gentlemen, in particular from the SPÖ, but also from the ÖVP, and probably only because of a fact, namely, because of the lack of material arguments – Mr Krainer, I am looking at you now – had to take part in levelless attacks and personal discrediting of individual Members here, this also speaks for itself, but not necessarily for your line to prevent this necessary investigation committee, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am now speaking specifically of such arguments and will now present something to you. [[Abg. Krainer: On the matter! On the matter! Investigation committee's coming!]] We are talking about an answer to a question, and now we are going to have further questions to Mr Finanzminister and to this Federal Government, because here I have quotations from the final report of the members of the committee who are just as valuable as the green final report to the last committee of inquiry, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jarolim.]] Mr Jarolim, if I hear now that the truth should not be so high, then I will now bring you quotes from Mr Seiser, who has asked Mr Klubobmann Schieder. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hakel]] So if you say here that the truth content is questionable, then prepare for what your clubman will perform with you in the following club session! I quote: Mr Seiser: The bank was sold to Bavaria in 2007. In this context, I think there was a statutory reporting obligation on financial market supervision in terms of sales. It is not known that the financial market supervision at the time had taken care of the country's liabilities in any way when the 50 percent plus a share was issued. In other words, in your view, financial market supervision could have pointed to the fact that there are or exist any rules with the liabilities. Witness Mag. Arbitrators say about it – I quote –: [[Abg. Krainer: is not FMA!]] Please also understand that this is not a question I can answer because I have no role in financial market supervision. [[Abg. Work: Yes, eh!]] After that, the trustee Mag. Windy: Moreover, financial market supervision, the Banking Act is the federal legislative and enforcement competence and therefore not the subject of a Landtagsprüfungs Committee. - Quote. In this way and In this way, all the representatives of the Federal authorities – financial market supervision, the National Bank and the like – have appeared in the Kärntner Investigation Committee and have repeatedly directed us, we do not care about their competence and their possible activity. This is also the reason why we say: Transparency! Enlightenment! The taxpayer, the taxpayer, who is liable for this damage, for this variant of the settlement of this federal government, deserved to be informed of the political responsibility – all the more so than another question here stands in the room. In my last speech – in turn from the Committee of Inquiry’s report, I would like to read on page 81, for all those who are actually interested – the following quote: On the question of the Carinthian SP countryman Herwig Seiser: Mr State Secretary, we know that in June 2009, just before the national negotiations began, Bavaria received an offer from a British investment company, namely Ashmore, who wanted to buy the Hypo Group Alpe-Adria by €700 million. Was this aspect at some point in the nationalization negotiations? Witness Mag. Scatter: I don't know. - Quote. I'd be interested. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e13657	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e13715	Mr. Krainer, now you can calm down again. Madam President. Mr State Secretary! I'm sorry, but if you call this a transparent process, Mr Danninger, I cannot accept it. If I look at the answer to the question, I see superficialness, elusive answers, unanswered questions and more. And that seems to me symptomatic of the whole handling of Hypo Alpe-Adria since the outbreak of the financial crisis at the end of 2008. If we take a look over the borders to Germany, we see there a very professional handling, how mining banks are installed. [[Abg. Fecter: Charges to taxpayers!]] Risk-based evaluations, clear communication with Parliament, clear communication with the public and no vultures we have experienced here for four years with the Hypo Alpe-Adria, Mrs Finanzminister out of service. [[Abg. Fekter: And everything pays the taxpayer!]] The only thing we learn about news in this report is that the Task Force has not dealt at all with the question of orderly insolvency until this supplementary opinion. Not at all! [[Abg. Fekter: But the Ministry of Finance already!]] This does not seem to have been in line with the mission, Mrs Ex-Finanzminister! Only in a supplementary opinion on 7. In March, the Task Force dealt with an orderly insolvency in a very superficial way. [[Abg. Fekter: That was your demand!]] These bases of decision, which the Hypo Task Force has provided to the various options – if you constantly talk in between, the whole will not be better, and the decision you have made will not, Mrs. Finanzminister, not serve. [[New calls from the Abg. Fekter.]] [[Abg. Krainer: But neither do you speak when you listen to the calls!]] These decision-making bases do not in any way meet professional standards – listen carefully, colleague Krainer – and are also democratically alarming. Why democratically worrying? Mr Groiß said that Mr Finanzminister and Mr Bundeskanzler had made a very detailed report on this today. – You have also reported in detail about this! In fact, you have not justified anything, but you have brought the known killing arguments. Cumulative argument 1: Insolvency destabilises the banking sector. Reasons: Zero. Cumulative argument 2: The refinancing costs for the state and the economy will rise to the immeasurable. Reasons: Zero. In this context, I read in an earlier OTS that a “Special Finance Committee with a Seminaristic Character” is to be convened, which is to “ familiarise itself with the economic impact of an insolvency scenario”, namely by the studied economist, the chairman of the financial committee, Mr Zakostelsky and obviously also by the studied economist – both are not students – Jan Krainer. I'm already excited about this seminar. [[Congratulations with Greens, Team Stronach and NEOS as well as representatives of FPÖ.]] However, it remained unanswered, and that would be part of a professional scenario: What is the risk of orderly insolvency? – 100 percent in no case, as always is assumed. How many basis points are realistic in the case of orderly insolvency? 10? 20? 50? 100? Where's your answer, colleague? Give me one, but one well-founded! Which creditor could you have brought into the boat? No answers! How high is the tax payer’s relief effect in the event of a ordered insolvency? No answers! What options are there for orderly insolvency? No answers! How would insolvency actually have an impact on the federal government and the country of Carinthia? No answers! Risk-based assessment would have been the key word. That's still missing. That would have been real leadership. Erwin Pröll could have kept the hat quiet. A considerate task force that is now acting exclusively as a task force for taxpayers, we could have been able to do this three years ago, and the former Minister of Finance should have been listening only to the board of directors. But the interests of taxpayers remain on the track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e13819	Mrs Klubobfrau Dr. Nachbaur. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e13850	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen in the High House! Dear taxpayers! The Hypo Alpe-Adria is not only the largest banking plate of the Second Republic, which should not have been ours, because we should not have made it necessary, but it is also a rather large cross-border criminal case, which, of course, is to be worked out in a committee of inquiry on political responsibility. Of course, I hope that this planned mining company, although I am pleased that it is to be organised under private law – it is still relatively open, which actually means – does not serve to cover everything up and hide it as far as possible. In addition to criminal law, of course, a U committee is the only means to bring light into the dark. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] One question that is particularly relevant to me is the following: Why has the Bayern loan not long been converted into equity? The topic has been on the table for four years. Soon, I think everyone knows what capital replacement law is in the core. A credit granted by a shareholder of the company in the crisis is treated as equity. This is about €2.3 billion. I think I've got a suspicion why there's no faster action here. The Treaty establishing the European Economic Community states that: ‘In the case of the Bank's split-up or economically comparable measure after which the Bank's viability is no longer guaranteed, the Federal Government will communicate the BayernLB in time and, at the request of the BayernLB, shall ensure the repayment of the BayernLB loans and credit lines to the Bank at that time.’ [[Calls of the Abg. Fekter.]] Perhaps that is why the Bayern problem has not been solved until now. The Bavarian Landesbank has the Federal Guarantee of the Republic. You have to imagine that! At the same time, the owners of Landesbanken even had charges in Germany, i.e. an additional obligation by means of equity. Before that comes in the Hierarchy subordinate capital, and before that unsecured and non-guaranteed liabilities come. And before that, in other words, at the head of the rang hierarchy, state-guaranteed liabilities come. This is now apparently the rank of Bavaria, which has improved by four, five, six ranks. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Carinthia is now accused of entering into liability, but it seems that the Federation itself has gone. The Bavarian Landesbank has a federal guarantee of Austria. I wonder, How do you want to participate in the Bayern under these omens? The Bavaria seemed to have pulled us over the table. [[Abg. I'm sure it's safe! They've always been clever, the Bayern!]] In view of this, I wish the Minister of Finance much success in negotiating, I just wonder what his lever is.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e13907	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Hable. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e13928	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Estimated citizens on the gallery and in front of the screens! I cannot address all the questions, so let me address the answers of three of our questions. I start with Question 22: Who will be involved in the decision on the resolution of Hypo Alpe-Adria? The answer, in short: the Task Force. The Task Force represents the Ministry of Finance, FIMBAG, the Austrian National Bank, the Financial Market Supervision and this so-called Special Coordinator. There are a few more chefs in our knowledge. Among other things, the Federal Chancellery has also mixed. It can be found that: Many chefs have cooperated in the decision on a very essential question. One has the impression – you can see the result – that it was too many, too many cooks, and none of them was a resolution expert. [[Abg. Höbart: Bad cooks!]] They have asked international experts, but what they have said about how to handle banks has been ignored. You have misplaced this right from the start, because you have put it in this task force, which was so essential for the decision, also the governor of the central bank. The governor of the central bank would have needed you for an insolvency solution, and he must be on board. But in function as Taskforce chief, he had to lean so far out of the window, even medial that he could never have rowed back. Even if he had said after all the opinions, there was something about it, he could never have rowed back and said: Let us perhaps consider insolvency or supervision as preliminary proceedings to a possible insolvency! So that didn't work right from the start. The answer to Question 12 is also very interesting. That is why the Bad Bank actually came so late. The Commission is to blame. The Commission's decision to grant aid has been required, and this has not been achieved until 2013. That's why you couldn't do anything. So the Commission's fault is that nothing has happened for years. The truth, ladies and gentlemen, is another! For years, the Commission has been waiting for something to happen. I would also expect an answer from you, Mrs Federal Minister a.D.! We all know that there has been no contact at ministerial level for years, no contact between the Federal Ministry and the Commission. [[Abg. Fetter: Such a nonsense!]] Please, introduce yourself here to the microphone and explain this to the citizens who want to know! [[Abg. Fekter: Several times!]] The Germans sent the ministers, the Austrians sent the officials, and at some point the Commission was obviously very much ate, that is what we see in the decisions – quite rightly, as I mean! Now on the third and last question I would like to address. [[New calls from the Abg. Fekter.]] – Mrs Federal Minister, please! [[President Prammer gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. Brosz: Not “Federal Minister”! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)]] Mrs Bundesminister a.D., we are happy to have another conversation. I invite you to come here to the speaker's desk, you don't have to tell me, but you have to explain this to the citizens who are speechless. [[Congratulations with NEOS, Greens and Team Stronach.]] On the third and last question, which I have reserved for the end, because it is really a treat. We asked who then negotiated and wrote the share purchase contract about the hypo. On this, Mr. State Secretary Danninger, in the presence of the Minister for Finance, we get the answer, these were representatives of Bavaria and representatives of the Republic of Austria. – Yes, no, of course, it was representatives, but that was not our question. We wanted to know who was sitting at the table and who wrote the contract. That was your answer. – I tell you, Mr State Secretary, and say I would also like to ask the Minister for Finance, it is a Parliament's disdain to answer these questions in this way. [[Congratulations with NEOS, FPÖ, Greens and Team Stronach.]] The interesting thing about the story is that no one wants to be there anymore. The reply says that the financial procuratorship had written the contract, but it was not involved in the negotiations. Governor Novotny says he wasn't there either, Minister of Finance Pröll – I ask for a few seconds more because of the interruptions, Madam President, that would only be fair, I'm done in 15 seconds. [[President Prammer gives the bell sign.]] So it was so to speak no one at the negotiating table. Result: The Bayern are sitting alone at the negotiating table and have negotiated with themselves.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e14029	That was at least 30 seconds now and another 30 seconds, Mr Deputies! The rules apply to everyone, 5 minutes are 5 minutes. Your speaking time is over, I'm sorry. [[Congratulations on NEOS, Greens and Team Stronach for the Abg leaving the speaker's desk. Hable.]] No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[16:54:50]] Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e14062	We shall now proceed to the debate on the request made by Mr Podgorschek, Mr Mag. Kogler, Ing. Lugar, Dr. Hable, colleagues, on the setting up of an investigative committee to examine political responsibility for the activities of the Hypo Group Alpe-Adria (Hypo Investigation Committee). This request has now been distributed to all Members. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e14262	We are going into the debate. In the sense of § 57 para. 1 GOG is the speaking time in this debate for 5 minutes. The first speaker shall have a speaking time of 10 minutes for reasons; The opinions of members of the Federal Government shall be 10 minutes each. Mr Podgorschek is the first to speak. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e14290	Madam President. I have heard very well the statements of Mr Danninger's Secretary of State that transparency is not just a keyword for him, and I hope that the representatives of the two government groups will also see this and agree to the setting up of an investigation committee. I think if you do not agree, then this will not be understood by the people, because you have really lost the ground liability completely. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The population is rightly informed that we do not want to clarify these transactions over the past 15 years. The need for information is already independent of the respective party preference. Be it people from the left or right bourgeois spectrum, everywhere I hear voices from the population who clearly call for an investigation committee. Everyone wants a reconnaissance, even across generations, from young to old, everyone wants at last the facts to come on the table. For example, the auctioner artist Roland Düringer, who expresses his indignation in an open letter to the Minister of Finance and, so to speak, acts as a citizen of anger. Or: I have also read the open letter of the mayor of Schladming, who is excited that everything will be kept under the ceiling again, and that is an ÖVP mayor. [[Abg. Lopatka: That's not how he formulated it!]] Or: The former mayor of the Upper Austrian city of Leonding, Dr. Sperl, also makes a very clear statement in a letter to the reader for an investigation committee. Also former representatives of the SPÖ in Upper Austria have spoken to me personally and no longer understand their own party. Also active politicians. The deputy mayor of my home town Ried in the Innkreis signed the Internetpetition and called me. I asked him why he told me if I could use it. He said, yes, I can use it very well, so should his party friends know that he does not accept this procedure. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Your strategy is a shot in the oven. You can still blame us for doing so often for our guilt – it's just not true! We want it to be clarified, even from the year 2000. If there have been individual mistakes at the end of the day, we will take note of this, but I do not believe in it. In the direction of ÖVP, before my after-speakers return to the stereotype answer that the FPÖ is to blame and so on, I can show a photo that is known all over the world. [[The speaker holds a photo that shows the former Chancellor Schüssel and the former representative and head of state of Kärnten Haider together in a car.]] There is no FPÖler next to the head of state Jörg Haider, but I think this gentleman was once Chancellor of the Federal Republic and very glad that Jörg Haider worked with him. I also keep it in the direction of SPÖ, but I think the photo is well known. [[Abg. Arbitrator: But the haider was already FPÖ?]] - Haider was FPÖ. I've never claimed that it's not a partial debt. But you forget, Mr. Klubobmann Schieder, in 2005, Jörg Haider separated himself from the liberals, and I can remember very well – I also said it this morning – that the ÖVP in the third camp then very well distinguished between the so-called constructive and destructive forces, and Jörg Haider was always called constructive at the time. So, in this way, I can only say one thing: The ÖVP also operates child-moving. But we want to explain why such an expansion course has taken place. Of course, this expansion course began particularly in the 2000s, but also in the 1990s. This gold tomb mood, which then ruled east, has affected not only the Hypo Alpe Adria, but almost all banks in Austria, be it the first, the Bank Austria, the RBI or the ÖVAG, which also has serious problems. I remember very well: I have often heard talks, for example from a well-known banker or banker from Upper Austria, who has repeatedly said: Be careful at the expansion toward the east! – So it wasn’t all there, and Ludwig Scharinger – I call him by name – said: I limit my expansion to the nearer environment. And he was right! At the time, however, he was smiled by many and put as a conservative. - That's just by the way. [[Abg. Kogler: The closer environment also included the ÖVP! There were also a few party donations!]] The country of Carinthia, under the head of state Haider and its predecessors and all those involved, should be monitored and the facts should be displayed in a committee of inquiry accordingly. But it is also to be examined the control that failed at the time. How can such a thing happen? We have heard this over and over again: In 2008, the National Bank still claimed that the Hypo Alpe Adria was “not distressed”. Interesting is also the role of the FMA. Today, it was also argued that there was no resistance to a sale at the FMA and that these liabilities continued to exist when the hypo was sold to Bavaria. The role of auditors, who have always made a statement of confirmation on the balance sheets, should also be examined accordingly. However, the sale to Bavaria must also be examined. It's quite interesting that the Carinthians then sold to the Bavaria! Why did they sell? I would have liked to know why Jörg Haider and the Carinthians finally sold. Maybe he was right! Maybe Jörg Haider has seen that the whole thing goes in the graves. And the Bavaria wanted this bank to end up with. They sought after this bank, whether the then Prime Minister Stoiber or the various finance ministers, who put massive pressure on their own people at the BayernLB and, in part, accused them of being stupid about buying a bank after they had failed in buying the BAWAG before. – This too is to be questioned and put in a proper light at the end. The Carinthian Investigation Committee must also be considered. It has already been partially quoted today. Why did many files come blackened to Carinthia so that they could not be clarified in the final effect? And all the federal files have not even arrived in Carinthia! – Even there you can’t clean yourself up and say: In Carinthia, everything has already been clarified. – Nothing has been enlightened! On the contrary: It's still a lot open! We also, of course, come to Ashmore's purchase offer, which has already been mentioned today, and so on. In addition, of course, you have to ask the question again and again: Then why did this nationalization come about? Who was interested in this nationalization that happened overnight? It should be pointed out that in the months before, the Bank systematically threatened the Bank financially that a completely different strategy had been taken. Has there been any interest on the part of the Liability Association? Has there been interest from the creditors who were not insured that there is a need for nationalisation? – That too is to be clarified. ==References== On December 7, 2009, serious errors occurred. No takeover balance was drawn up. Every small business operator who takes over a company today looks at the company in question properly. Finally – and this is interesting too – those involved were sent to the Task Force. For example, President Novotny, that is, the one who has repeatedly warned of a bankruptcy and had great interest in the fact that nothing comes up, then led the task force. – That is also clear! The population has a right to find out which threads have run in the background. I can understand that perhaps the Bavaria enjoyed the fact that the then Vice-Cancellor Pröll almost unexpectedly took over this bank. [[President Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The public has a right to information, and on this point I give many previous speakers the right to: This must never happen again!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e14397	Mr Krainer is now speaking. From now on, 5 minutes speaking time for all the speakers. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e14419	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm allowed to bring three quotations from non-SPÖ people. First Martina Salomon: She said on TV on the show “In the center” towards Strache and Kogler – more towards Strache, you have to say, but ultimately to both –: The longer I listen to you, the more I am against a committee of inquiry, because you're tearing down a lot of wood here, and that's a sensitive issue. - Quote. The second quote is from Dr. Haber of the University of Krems, who said on ATV on the show “At the Point”: Now it is about handling this bank as far as possible and using the daughters in particular. I can also examine in three or five years. Now such a debate and such an investigation committee would cause damage to this sales process. - Quote. And the third quote is from Mrs. Dr. Stainer-Hammerle of the University of Klagenfurt, who said that she was against a committee of inquiry, because it would only become a policy. – For information: Ms. Dr. Stainer-Hammerle is a political scientist, in case you know the difference between journalism and political science. . She said that this would only become a policy, and she would suggest that international experts should simply consider it as a kind of wise council independent. This proposal originally comes from her. As a representative of the SPÖ, I have said in this debate, which we are now almost holding in the weekly rhythm, how our position is. We have discussed this long and detailed in the club and see five good reasons for this. The first concerns the real cause of the problem: In fact, we cannot examine the award of national liability because we can only examine federal authorities and not decisions by national bodies and the like. That is to say, we cannot examine the real problem or the truly guilty because of the legal situation. Secondly, it would be a damage to the bank: As long as the daughters in Eastern Europe have not been sold, I would not even think of an investigation committee. The third reason is that we still have a number of problems with the Rules of Procedure. All the parties have said that this will reform and in order that ed. But that hasn't happened yet. I would therefore suggest that we take advantage of the time and really do it now. The fourth is that the Court of Auditors has been examining nationalization since June last year at the request of the Greens, and I therefore believe that we should wait for what is stated in this report. Fifth – and then I join the observations of Martina Salomon and Stainer-Hammerle – this is also a question of political culture in this country: It may also be possible for the Greens to make a reasonable contribution to raising political culture here by explaining why what was supposed to be good a year ago and what they called for, namely the decommissioning of the bank, today should be the worst solution, if it had been the best solution a year ago! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e14483	Next speaker: Mr. Singer. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e14515	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! Yes, of course we need some information. The government parties are not generally opposed to the setting up of investigation committees. [[Abg. Brosz: However not on this topic!]] We had two committees of inquiry during the last legislative period, and both government parties are not objectors. Again: Enlightenment is of course a matter of course, and justice carries out this legal task. More than a hundred procedures are currently pending for the Causa Hypo Alpe Adria, and in more than a hundred procedures the responsibility for the Hypo Alpe Adria disaster is examined. [[Abg. Kogler: But that has nothing to do with this Causa!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is all that needs to be done so that justice can fully fulfil its task from the outside, and that is what has often not been done in the past. If the defendants had case-related information from the investigating committee in the judicial proceedings, this may significantly restrict the work of the judicial system. [[Abg. Kogler: Mr. Pröll is not charged, is he? Are we ready?]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Chancellor and Mr. Vice-Chancellor have today presented the plans of the Federal Government for Hypo Alpe-Adria: Among other things, the sale of daughters in south-eastern Europe and a settlement process are planned with the aim of achieving the greatest possible proceeds, a proceeds which is crucial for the amount of tax subsidies. With this in mind, we must do everything we can to ensure that this process can go without disturbance. It has been shown that a public discussion in the style of a tribunal, as practiced in the past, is harmful in this resolution process, thus causing damage to taxpayers. Such committees of inquiry, in the style of a tribunal, that information, as I have already mentioned, can be found once again as defendants, are a consequence! [[Abg. Kogler: You've been blocking for 30 years!]] This has nothing to do with political culture, but only acts as an instrument of pre-condemnification. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore very much support the redesign of the investigation committee procedure. I think it is necessary to make this subject the subject of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection the subject of democracy. No matter what topic: Just as the committees of inquiry do, they are not a contribution to an investigation, but only a contribution to scandalisation. Here we are all called for together. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the main responsibility for the Hypo Alpe Adria disaster lies clearly with the FPÖ. There have already been two research committees in Carinthia. [[Abg. Kogler: If you hadn't turned off in 2007, we would have saved billions!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Jörg Haider sold the bank at the time, but he did not include the liability: A “great” economic performance! [[Abg. Darmann: Where was the financial supervision?]] The Finance Minister Josef Pröll and State Secretary Andreas Schieder, at the time of the emergency, were also invited to these investigative committees in Carinthia and have made public information about the emergency. Mr Kogler! Josef Pröll was subsequently notified by Stefan Petzner for alleged misstatement before the board of inquiry in Klagenfurt. [[Abg. Kogler: He couldn't say anything wrong because he didn't say anything!]] And what was the summary, Mr. Kogler? – All proceedings against Josef Pröll in connection with the hypo-notification have now been terminated. All these procedures have been terminated. [[Abg. Kogler: I don't know!]] And now the opposition obviously wants to repeat the whole at federal level. Ladies and gentlemen! The question is what is held under the lid. More than a hundred cases are currently handled by the judicial system. In Carinthia there have already been two committees of inquiry. The Federal Court of Auditors is currently examining the emergency stateization of the Hypo Alpe-Adria. [[Abg. Kogler: Against your will!]] And a wises council with national and international experts has arrived. [[President Prammer gives the bell sign.]] So: A variety of studies are being carried out. Now it is crucial to handle the FPÖ hypo disaster as best as possible for taxpayers. Now
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e14675	Ladies and gentlemen, please take note of the speaking time. Thank you. [[In the case of the ÖVP for the Abg, leaving the speaker's seat. Singer.]] Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e14709	Madam President. In this kind of previous speakers, it is really difficult for you to keep the Contenance. I say all of this now only for the Minutes, not that you believe I still have hope in this case! [[Abg. Jewellery beater: This is a presumptuous!]] But I'm telling you quite honestly: Some of you here earn a maximum of half the salary, because half of you should control the government here and make half the laws. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Prince.]] You can argue about the second. At the first, however, you do damage. They cover up, and that was the best proof of it again. It was already an art to climb Mr. Krainer, but it was successful. What you have to listen to is adventurous! It must be referred to the old committee of inquiry. This is what happened here. You know what? These committees of inquiry have been highly successful in informing and hygiene in the Republic. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But when they could have been particularly successful, you and you have always turned off! [[New condolences with the greens.]] It was so at Telekom that the ÖVP's black money account system was still to be clarified. - That's what the right one is. For the Protocol: Deputies Schönegger points out to the speaker, so to me, the bird. This is not a bad thing, Mr President. They will still be allowed to perform what these signs mean on another occasion. Then do it elsewhere! But now to the previous speakers of ÖVP and SPÖ. – When the Eurofighter committee reached its peak, you turned off, and as a result, it actually came out that not only the €7 million went to the lobbyist Steininger, but in stock by well over €100 million for lubricating money. That's what we're going to find out! There was also a part of the black sphere. We'll prove it, and your turning off won't have helped. When the Banking Supervisory Committee came to the point of combating money laundering in Ukraine, Russia and the Balkans when we went to bring the protection of raiffeisen for oligarchs such as Firtash, like Fursin and the large criminal organization Mogilevich behind it, you turned off. And when we were at the hypo – all this was negotiated at the same time – you turned off as well. That's where the Gaudi slows down! It ceases when Members come out of here, obviously in this case their vocational order and not professional order completely misinterpreted, wishing to spread over the opposition heme, but even to the extent that they have charged blame, when the turning off of the investigations in 2007 has contributed significantly to the enlargement and potential of billions of damage. Shame before you spread senseless censorships here! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We can Don't let them out! If you had become more perceptive, that might be different, but obviously there will be no preaching. Confession, penance, improvement is not the case with some. I don't know what they're doing in the week of the week. If you take the last chance, I can only tell you. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] But we won't let go! It'll continue. And in each of your constituencies, we will have the debate about what nonsense you want to continue to torpedo and prevent the Enlightenment here. If you say that there have been two research committees in Carinthia, that's right, but mostly against the will of the others, because Rolf Holub fought in there. But do you know what he didn't get? - The Bundesacten! These have been denied him. And the witnesses who should have said something about the covenant have usually kept silent. [[Congratulations on the Greens and Members of the NEOS.]] I wonder why Stefan Petzner is actually going astray and Mr Pröll wants to make a false testimony, although he has not said anything at all. That is why this was condemned from the outset to failure. But that was the principle: No one says anything! No files! - That's what you want to call on? The reports, Mr Holub – thank God! – wrote, had to do with the fact that we supported him with the files of the Banking Investigation Committee, but you turned them off. Without this cooperation of the Greens, we would not have had this information work at all in place where we have taken it to anyway, and this should continue. It will not help you - I told you the last time - to refer to any judicial procedure, because these have nothing to do with the things of political responsibility. All judicial accusations that are being prosecuted have nothing to do with 2009 upward. You don't want to hear that! But it has to be looked at just as why things have been sluggished and thrown away, including billions of damage. [[Congratulation with greens, FPÖ and NEOS.]] There was no more sharks in the world. Yeah, I know you're hurting, but it's actually like that. And if we finally evaluate this, you will see that in 2008 the National Bank has produced a rapid-shooting report in which the bank has been tested as healthy, and in 2009 a nationalization took place, which is almost completely false sign, the most misguided negotiating process. [[President Prammer gives the bell sign]] There is no single judicial procedure, it is only a matter of political responsibility. It'll be clear, and you won't be able to prevent that. [[President Prammer gives the bell sign again.]] Be careful now!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e14803	Next, Mr. Ing. Lugar speaking. 5 minutes speaking time. Please keep these 5 minutes, otherwise we shall keep the Rules of Procedure out of force.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e14825	At the beginning: The mining society is really the best solution. We've heard it many times today. I can only repeat it: The mining society is really the best solution. The question is: For whom? – This is the central question of everything you do, in the economy and also in politics. Of course, the decision on premise, on considerations has been taken. Then there is the decision, and then the question is: For whom is it the best solution? Is it the best solution for raiffeisen? Is it the best solution for the country-hypos, for the heads of state, for the friends of the ÖVP, the Bavaria? Or is it the best solution for taxpayers? That is the central question we should clarify. That's it. As a government, you have thought something about this solution, which is understandable. The Court of Auditors has repeatedly said: When the private builds, it costs 100 percent; if the state builds, it costs 150 percent; and if the public hand builds, it costs 200 percent. That's where you're wondering: Well, how's that going? How could that be? Is the public hand so stupid that it always pays twice as much as it is necessary? - No, they're not stupid. This is about rerouting profitability. It is about all those who have the power to use this power shamelessly to bring themselves, the party or others forward. That's exactly what happened at the mortgage, to the taxpayer's loss. For those who may not believe me, I also have a proof. The least in here have known that the 2011 and 2012 hypo has carried out a total of €1.5 billion haircuts on bonds. 2011 and 2012 – and now it’s coming – only up to 70 percent of private investors have been charged from above; up to 70 percent, but only with private investors! That's where they did it at the hypo. And later, when it came to the fact that those bonds are only where political power is in this country – with the country-hypos, with the banks that are very influential, with the speculators and investors who are close to you – it is suddenly impossible. A haircut, how could that be? I'm saying one thing: Before the Minister of Finance has said that there will certainly be no pleite, the bonds are large modo, almost the total € 212 billion is located at less than 80 percent of the value, at less than 80 percent on average, some at 50 or even below! Do you know where they stand today? At 98 percent. Because you give a guarantee here. And then I wonder, Why didn't you make an exchange offer at the time – and it hasn't been that long, that's not even two weeks ago? Only with this exchange offer would we have saved € 2 billion. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] But do you know why this exchange offer didn't come? Because he who should have accepted this is someone who has political influence, and he can choose it. Do you think the Raiffeisen would rather take 100 percent or rather 80 percent? Well, what do you think the Raiffeisen is doing? Do they take the 80 percent as a private investor would have to, or do they take the 100 percent? Because they have political influence, and that is the point. Many say: How can it be that the government forgets about taxpayers? I'll tell you a secret now. The taxpayer does not play a role in political everyday life at all. The taxpayer doesn't care. You know why? Because the taxpayer has only two tasks: The task is to choose. He can do that every five years. It's a long time. And the second task is to pay. Only these two tasks have the taxpayer you thought about him! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] That is why, unfortunately, all the decisions you make do not matter to the taxpayer. That is why we stand here today and why we will stand here even more often. This is also the reason why we need an investigation committee. We don't need any wise men to think about how bad all this would have been – a bankruptcy and there and there and the trust and the capital markets. We don't need that. We need an investigation committee that finally explains how it is possible in this country that the taxpayer simply does not play a role. We need that, we need this committee of inquiry! Then the question is: Why is that so? Why does the taxpayer not play a role and why does he have only these two tasks? To choose on one side – unfortunately, he sometimes forgets – and to pay on the other side. We need a committee of inquiry and we will fight for that! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e14901	Mr Hable has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e14922	Madam President. High house! Appreciate citizens, on the gallery and in front of the screens! The subject is the joint request for the establishment of an investigation committee. This request is a symbol of a historic etiquette of four parliamentary parties – from us NEOS, from the FPÖ, from the Greens and from the Stronach team. It is also our common parliamentary petition, which we have brought in, a symbol of a historic shoulder closure. This petition has already been signed by more than 40 000 citizens. You can support them online. My invitation: Dear citizens in front of the screens outside! Come on! Support You online our petition for an investigative committee! [[Congratulations with NEOS, Greens and Team Stronach, as well as representatives of FPÖ.]] This Committee of Inquiry is necessary for two reasons. It is necessary to ensure greater transparency; and it is necessary to counter the constant camouflage and deception. We have always stretched out our hands and offered to work together and work with the government on constructive solutions. We shall come back to questions which are, in fact, very close to Parliament's disdain, or which are actually such. Coming back – and this is the highlight for me, so I would like to add that – a statement by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany today morning. The Federal Chancellor says that this would not have been possible, because an insolvency of the hypo would send the country of Carinthia into insolvency. That would not be the case, because then hospitals, schools and kindergartens would have to close. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] That's right? – Well, maybe you should take a look at the law. I mean, that's what parliamentarians do. Take a look at the execution order! It is clear that an execution of assets that serves non-profit interests – that is, exactly what the Federal Chancellor has said – is not excluded from kindergartens, schools and hospitals. [[Congratulation with NEOS and Greens.]] There are only three possibilities. Either the Federal Chancellor is here uninformed before Parliament; or he is here in front of Parliament and does not ask whether what he says is true, does not bring up any legal counsel again, we know it. [[Abg. Kogler: That's the intentional panic!]] Or here he is standing before Parliament and in full consciousness says the untruth. [[Abg. Kogler: That's it! Panic!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, in order to counteract this tarpaulin and deception, we need a committee of inquiry to clarify these facts. Last but not least – and this is not the first but not the last time – my appeal to the colleagues of ÖVP and SPÖ: Listen to your heart! Listen to what you're doing. Your parliamentary heart says if you vote today and in the future on applications for the establishment of an investigation committee! If you listen to your parliamentary heart, you must agree. Every parliamentarian knows that the largest financial debacle that this country has seen requires an investigative committee. If in your chest two heart beats, that of the parliamentarian and that of the party member, I recommend you: Listen not to the heart of the party member, but to the heart of the parliamentarian! Then we will also be given this committee of inquiry. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e15012	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall come to the vote on the request by Mr Podgorschek, Mr Mag. Kogler, Ing. Lugar, Dr. Hable, colleagues on the establishment of an investigative committee. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give the consent to a sign. - That's not the majority. The application is therefore rejected. [[Call to the Greens: But not!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[17:31:10]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00016_d8e15055	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 285/A(E) to 292/A(E) have been tabled at today's meeting. Questions 1055/J to 1062/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council, held on Wednesday, 26 March. March 2014, 9 a.m., is envisaged, will be convened in writing. Before I close the meeting, I announce that a meeting will be held in the local VIII immediately following this meeting of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives. This meeting is closed.
