ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e2988	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the 43. Meeting of the National Council, which is based on a sufficiently supported request in accordance with § 46 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure. The official protocols of the 40. Meeting of 23. ==References====External links== Meeting of 24. In September 2014, the Parliament's management has remained unanswered and undisputed. As an obstacle to today's meeting, the Members of the Third President, Mr Ing. Hofer, Krainer, Muchitsch, Haubner, Dipl.-Kffr.(FH) Pfurtscheller, jewelry beater, Dr. Minzig, Gartelgruber, Jannach, Dr. Winter, Mag. Loacker and Schellhorn. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e3022	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: The Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management Dipl.-Ing. Andrä Rupprechter is the Federal Minister for the Interior of Power. Johanna Mikl- Leitner. [[12:02:41]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e3058	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[12:02:54]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e3325	According to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure called for urgent consideration of the written question tabled at the beginning of the meeting 2737/J by Mr Strache, colleagues and colleagues to the Federal Minister for Defence and Sport concerning ‘The Federal Hero of Austria’s Neutrality and Civil Protection’. The call for urgent inquiry will take place at 3 p.m. I announce that this session of ORF III will be broadcast live in full length. I would like to point out that the main committee will meet at 12.07 p.m., after the plenary deliberations have been suspended, at local level V. I'll interrupt the meeting by 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e3372	I'll start the interrupted session again. [[15:00:50]] Request for urgent procedure of Member Heinz-Christian Strache, colleagues in the Federal Minister for Defence and Sport on "The Federal Army of Austria's Neutrality and Civil Protection" (2737/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e3408	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. My honourable Minister, Mr Klug, I should like to welcome you very warmly in our midst. Mr. Federal Minister, we would like to congratulate you and your partner on the birth of your daughter Louisa this morning. - Good. [[General condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we are now entering the urgent debate on the written question 2737/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e3864	I give Mr Klubobmann Strache as the first questioner on the grounds of the question referred for a preliminary ruling pursuant to § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e3888	Madam President. Mr. Minister of Defence! Mr State Secretary! First of all, I would like to join the congratulations: That you have become a father is a joyous personal event, and for that you are naturally congratulated and wish a lot of pleasure. [[It was in favour of the FPÖ as well as of representatives of ÖVP and NEOS.]] But the subject of today's urgent question is of course a less gratifying one when it comes to our Austrian federal army facing the most disastrous development in the history of the Second Republic. Mr Klug, unfortunately, it is necessary to make your responsibility firm in this area today, because our Austrian federal army is facing a collapse – namely that the tasks clearly defined in the Austrian Constitution are no longer to be fulfilled in the savings programme you are carrying out. This is a death-saving of the Austrian state defense, Austrian security, but also Austrian neutrality, and that is not responsible. – You have to keep that in the clear. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the present situation, our federal army is no longer capable of implementing a disaster response accordingly. It can also no longer fulfil the security tasks in the field of assistant missions, ensure complete airspace surveillance, or even in various threat scenarios, which can never be predicted and which are not foreseeable, as we have to do because of the conflict in Ukraine and other locations. We are also far away from a necessary new service right, which has been announced and promised, or an appeal to the ground defense service, which has been promised due to the clear results of the popular survey, which is a direct democratic instrument. I remember: 60 percent of the Austrian population have spoken clearly and clearly for a strong federal army with a ground military service and for civil service. We therefore have this constitutional task to fulfil, and it is inconceivable that the outcome of a popular survey, i.e. a direct democratic instrument, should be stepped up as it is at present. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The necessary acquisition, which was always the subject, namely a replacement for the ancient Saab-105 aircraft, is also not in sight. Some museums envy us about this inventory, but a new acquisition is not the case! We are currently even fighting for the petrol for team transport cars and are already so far that basic defenses have to buy bus tickets from their own bag. This is embarrassing and really irresponsible what is happening right now! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You have to speak of an unworthy scandal – otherwise you can't define it – when soldiers are treated in such a way and find such a situation. I am particularly pleased that today 35 students of the 5. Class of the military realgymnasium in Wiener Neustadt sitting here at the audience gallery, and would like to welcome them, because these young people, Mr. Minister, expect you not to build their future! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ as well as with representatives of ÖVP and Team Stronach.]] The military realgymnasium in Wiener Neustadt is an excellent educational institution and you save this traditional and excellent educational institution! This is your political procedure, which we have already outlined very cynically, namely on the occasion of the closure of the police departments, where the minister wanted to make us aware of at the time, after we close police stations, then Austria becomes safer. – The next argument in the health field is perhaps that we close hospitals, then we get healthier! And now we're closing educational institutions to make us fail? – This is all just more grotesque, what is happening here, and I say: They should do all they can to ensure that the military realgymnasium will continue to exist in the future – this is important for these young students, but also for the future of our country – so that future development in this field is also possible. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So we don't imagine a SPÖ training offensive! The boys and girls sitting on the visitor gallery today have consciously come in uniform to show that they are for a maintenance. I say that the military realgymnasium is unique throughout Austria, and if you want to close it now, this is an educational crime. The continuation is absolutely necessary! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the end, future officers are recruiting from this military realgymnasium. Many of them start their career there in order to go to the military academy later, to complete an officer training and finally to be available as young people. Of course, if you continue to deliberately break the army and save it, we will probably no longer need any officers in the future, because then there will be no army at all and therefore you will not need any officers. This shows what is obvious Your project is, and that is why this is all the more critical. Closes of schools can never be the right way, and I say: This military youth is stealing the future, Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, not only the students of the Military Realgymnasium suffer from their policies, they are also our soldiers, our army staff, who are partly suffering from the most difficult conditions and lack of equipment due to lack of financial resources. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ as well as with representatives of ÖVP and Team Stronach.]] It's been like this for years and days. However, the military staff are doing excellent work, but ten years ago we pointed out that 0.75% of gross domestic product is too little as a budget for national defence. Today we are 0.55 percent. No country in this world has a military budget below 1 percent of gross domestic product! – And we go in the direction of 0.55 percent and want to make the Austrian population credible so that our constitutional tasks can be fulfilled. - No! It would have been your task, as Minister of Defense, to take a clear position and to oppose the EIA Finance Minister, who gives you such a position, and to make a clear veto in the Council of Ministers. - You didn't do that! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I say: the greatest recognition for the soldiers, for the army officials, who are unfortunately abandoned by you, although they do great things. You deserve better! You have on our last urgent request on 20 November. In May 2014 the following words were added: “Every one of you who is willing to fight for a solid future of our army and the necessary financial resources and the necessary equipment has in me” – as Minister of Defense has said – “a reliable and persistent ally.” Well, what has turned out now? – They are neither reliable nor stubborn, nor even an ally of the Austrian federal army and army. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You lived exactly the opposite! They are the graves of the Austrian federal army, and thus also threatening for our neutrality, for the necessary and therefore maintained comprehensive national defence and the protection of our neutrality and also for the necessary operational capacity in the event of disasters to protect our own population or for safeguarding property in the event of concrete threats – terrorism is even more up-to-date than ever. But how do we do this with a downgraded structure, where perhaps a battalion will have to secure the Austrian Parliament and two battalions the airport Vienna-Schwechat? With all the personnel necessary for this, we are then exactly at the operational capacity to reduce the federal army, without being able to secure other protective objects in Austria at all, or to cope with any crises. That shows how irresponsible that is what you are doing. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You want to save an additional €200 million a year. If you were indeed such a reliable and stubborn ally of the Austrian federal army and its staff, as you claimed, then you should never have agreed to this budget. Then, as I said, you should have put a veto in the Council of Ministers. Then you would have had to use all means to make a serious operation possible for the army within the meaning of our constitutional duties. And then you could have been proud of the groundmen and said: I have committed and enforced myself for you, and we carry out the constitutional tasks. - You don't have that! There you apparently got your coalition partner, the ÖVP, onto the glue and walked into the open knife, because of course you would like to see it fail. The ÖVP is co-responsible for the caputt saving of the Austrian federal army. [[Complaints and bravaders at the FPÖ.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Tamandel and Mr Wöinger.]] They of the ÖVP make the Minister of Finance, who has made the requirements to the Minister of Defence, which unfortunately accepted God in this way: a mini-budget of 0.55 percent! [[Abg. Wöginger: Smoker!]] This does not guarantee the maintenance of comprehensive national defence and neutrality. Instead of expressing yourself against these savings, which are actually a death sentence for the Austrian federal army, you are trying, Mr Minister, unfortunately God, to implement this impossible budget and what the Minister of Finance has given you. This is actually a breach of the constitution! - Why? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] Our constitution says clearly and clearly – Article 9a: “Austria is committed to comprehensive national defence. Your task’ – supplement: Responsibility – “it is to maintain external independence and the inviolability and unity of the federal territory, in particular to maintain and defend the constant neutrality.” Article 79 also mentions ‘Help in the event of elementary events and accidents’. This is not to be guaranteed by this budget. However, fulfilling constitutional tasks means providing a corresponding budget and not a budget with which it is condemned to fail. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But this is exactly the development that we are seeing today. The army is no longer able to fulfil this with the financial resources that have now been disembarked, which have ultimately been removed. It cannot be that the budget defines the size of an army, but, of course, it must be the current threat scenarios and the constitutional mandate to be defined on the basis of which a budget has to be defined – and no other standards. You can't just throw our safety overboard like that. That is exactly the responsibility you bear: You live here in a huge error, with a mini-budget, and you obviously also deliberately plan a mini army, against a direct-democratic popular decision of 60 percent of the Austrians. Because a party, in the case of SPÖ, is inferior – despite all the media support mechanisms that exist only, for your position of the professional force, which was still rejected by a large majority of the population of 60 percent – one is now trying, so to speak, to create new facts with the targeted breakdown of the federal army, so that a professional army can only be enforced properly against the majority will of the Austrian population, and then one will say: Well, now, unfortunately, we are no longer able to protect our homeland and neutrality accordingly! Then one will probably say that we now have to join NATO. That will be the next step. I warn you: We do not have to become a part of NATO, but we also have our neutrality to continue to live and to ensure that we do not participate in such dangerous developments that stand in the room! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is a fundamental false approach that is being lived here. So I repeat: If the Federal Government is unable to fulfil these tasks through cuts in resources, we believe that this is another breach of the constitution, as has already been done in other areas, such as sanctions mechanisms and economic war against Russia. These are developments that cause us great concern, because a government is going to come and stand outside the Constitutional Arch – not even, but several times. These are developments, in view of which we as parliamentarians clearly say: It really needs to be rethinked now! That's how it can't and mustn't go on! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, the background of this development is a shameful power struggle between the two coalition partners on the back of the security of the Austrians. We know that the ÖVP has always been interested in leading Austria away from neutrality towards NATO, and the SPÖ has always been interested in leading Austria towards the professional army. With such mechanisms of the caputt saving of the German army, both reach their goals against the majority will of the Austrian population – and that is exactly what it can and should not play! This is precisely why it is important to ensure that the constitutional tasks of the army, including the protection of Austrian citizens, are guaranteed in every respect by a corresponding budget, that there is financial viability for this, and that all contribute to the fact that the German army is not saved to death. Each expert will confirm to you that, as a result of these savings, there is a loss of the army's core capabilities, that property protection can no longer be ensured in the event of terrorist threats and that pioneers can no longer stand by the Austrian population in the event of terrorist attacks. As a result of the savings, all of this will no longer be sustained. They are taking a common path here, which, of course, cannot be accepted in this way. The return to military core competence, namely the fight against connected weapons, is also deliberately being carried out. We now experience that the tanks should be reduced to 25 pieces. Please, with all appreciation: I don't know any country in the world that only has 25 tanks. There is even more Liechtenstein! In the event of any dangers, would you like to ensure a constitutional order, namely the protection of the Austrian home country and neutrality? This is dangerous – ridiculous on the one hand and dangerous on the other. This is a development, in view of which one can really only touch one's head. Finally, it goes back to the level of a brigade, where only property protection requires countless brigades, which need to be alternated. So not even the object protection you have defined yourself in your security doctor, you can still ensure with what you are doing in the end, let alone bring any other crises under control. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] This is very, very worrying, especially in view of the fact that conflicts, as they are observed today, often break out without any warning period, as one has seen from several examples of whether this was the Arab spring, the conflict in Ukraine or also the case of the Berlin Wall or other events. This often happens surprisingly and does not announce itself for years, so that you can counter it accordingly. One must therefore take into account the fact that one does not have a great lead time to adapt to a situation, but that many events occur suddenly and one must therefore allow for immediate and rapid action. That is exactly what you do not do, however, by reducing everything so far to so many so-called small core areas that you will no longer be able to take action for the security of our country. Such a system can be raised sometime in the course of years, but that can be fatal. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] According to your own definition of the likely tasks of a military deployment, the protection of critical infrastructure is an issue, the protection of airports, refineries, power supply networks, water supply networks, airspace surveillance, protection and assistance in natural disasters, peace operations abroad, the training of our ground defenses, as well as the defence of threats from cyberspace. You have also defined that yourself, in addition to the constitutional tasks. Whoever believes that the Austrian Federal Army can ensure the army organization and the savings that have now been taken into consideration, is very wrong. This can also be seen from the example of Switzerland. Switzerland is presenting this. An evaluation of an object protection exercise by the Swiss army has now shown that for the protection of Zurich Airport – which can be compared to that in Vienna-Swechat – for the sustainable protection of this one worthy object – we are only talking about one, not the hundreds we have – 5 000 soldiers are necessary, which of course also need to be replaced, which in the extreme case means that the number of persons is threefold. That is to say, we easily exceed the 12 500 men who, in the event of a threat, are supposed to protect the hundreds of protected objects in Austria. So I'm already excited about how you're going to explain and also explain logically how this should be possible. – And there we talk only about property protection, we do not talk about other hazards and other security-political uses of the Austrian federal army. This alone shows that, in the event of a crisis which may arise, this means a complete lack of protection for the Austrian population. And that's dangerous. That is why we need to counter this, and that is why it is so important today to raise awareness with this urgent request, also to remove your responsibility and to make it clear here that it cannot continue: Not the army can currently provide protection and assistance to the Austrian population in a serious case, but this Austrian army needs protection and assistance from this red and black federal government, which ultimately started a security-threatening development. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, the German army must also be able in the future to fulfil the constitutional tasks I stress over and over again – in order to protect our citizens. The security must be worth it to us. Therefore, a financing of the army – and it was also the discussion over ten years ago, at the time within the framework of a military reform committee led under Zilk – has to be carried out in such a way as to require at least one percent of the gross domestic product. That is exactly the crucial definition. And exactly from that we are now almost half away, at only 0.55 percent. I say: There is the command of the hour to finally rethink; in international comparison, 1 per cent would be in the lower range anyway. The other EU countries have a military budget of 2.5 percent of GDP. We talk about 1 percent, not even that one percent you are willing to invest in neutrality, security and disaster protection in Austria. In any event, basic funding would be necessary to re-establish the structurally disrupting measures in recent years and to prevent further structurally destructive measures that are now in place. Yes, we need protection and assistance from the Austrian Federal Army for the Austrian population! And we will do everything we can to make this protection and security of the Austrian population possible and secure. We will not simply accept the continuing constitutional break of SPÖ and ÖVP. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I say that the ideas for the redefinition of the federal army are nothing but a clear revenge of the SPÖ for the lost referendum on military duty, otherwise it cannot be interpreted. But the drama is in the process, the ÖVP ultimately plays against the population and a direct democratic referendum. And you help to perform a funeral of the first class of the federal army. For this reason, Minister Klug, we will also present a motion of censure against you today, because you bear the responsibility. We did not think it possible, after the civil servant Darabos, that it could get worse, but you unfortunately taught us God of a better one that it could get worse and convinced us from the opposite that unfortunately you are God's worst minister of defense, who up to now had to experience and suffer this republic. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Too bad, because at the beginning of your term of office, I would have trusted you that you have more courage, more character, and more spirit of commitment to act differently.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e4079	To answer the urgent question, the Minister of State for Defence and Sport has made a statement. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e4101	Thank you very much, Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) At the beginning: Thank you very much for the many congratulations. As you can imagine, today is certainly one of the most beautiful and happy days in my life. Nevertheless, we follow our order. Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. High house! Since this is a special meeting, I would also like to begin by looking for an understanding of it if I became a little more detailed in individual areas. With regard to the answer to the urgent request, I would like to take the opportunity to bring you closer to all current developments related to the ÖBH 2018 structural package. In short, the starting position is: Due to the continuous budget cuts since 2008 and the striking bottlenecks, for example in the area of vehicle fleets and our aircraft, the effects are unmistakable. In addition, over the last ten years, the Austrian Federal Army has benefited some €2 billion from the substance through various measures, including legal measures. The dominant and the expected resource situation – I am still coming to it – made it necessary to eliminate almost complete new investments in 2014 and 2015, leading to a significant reduction in the performance of the federal army. [[Abg. Kickl: Who was?]] The consequences of this: In view of the general budget situation and the defined staff framework, action must be taken, albeit painfully. Therefore, the organization must be reduced and small, uneconomic barracks closed. The share of heavy weapons in the Austrian federal army should be significantly reduced by 2018. In logistics and training, the structures must be adapted to the reduced needs. In general, 15 percentage points will be reduced in the ministry, with the commanders and the offices. [[Abg. Kickl: That's a call!]] Overall, the areas of staffing, current operations and other work in final development are reduced by an average of € 200 million per year in the concept. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. High house! The proposed measures are designed to enable the Austrian Federal Army to continue fulfilling the tasks of military defence, assistance missions and foreign operations in an adapted way. What logic is the concept of ÖBH 2018 based on? – In accordance with our Constitution, the Austrian Security Strategy was adopted on a broad basis here in the House last year, which defines all key elements of a modern strategy. It forms the parent security document. Furthermore, in the current government programme, the chapter on security policy: “The German army must be adapted to the future challenges and tasks on the basis of the new Austrian Security Strategy, the Military Service Report, the Military System and the ever-increasing neutrality.” The Austrian Security Strategy provides that, derived from it, so-called sub-strategies are also drawn up by each department. For the BMLVS, this is the sub-strategy defence policy, which is currently being negotiated with our coalition partner. Both strategic documents clearly state that the current and foreseeable framework conditions for the security policy orientation of Austria are different from 20 years ago. The risk of conventional attacks on Austria is therefore unlikely to occur in the foreseeable future. The challenges, risks and threats today are international terrorism, the spread of weapons of mass destruction, refugee problems, attacks on our IT systems, threats of strategic infrastructure and, of course, natural disasters. These new security policy conditions are naturally taken into account in the 2018 ÖBH structural package, as these are linked to the so-called military deployments likely tasks. Military tasks are therefore likely to be the protection of critical infrastructure, such as the Schwechat airport, the protection of water supply networks, as well as the power supply networks, assistance in natural disasters, airspace surveillance, foreign peacekeeping, training of our ground defenses and the defence of threats from the cyber area. It is important to me to carry out these tasks at a modern stage, especially in the military defence. To do this, the Austrian Federal Army also needs a necessary mobility and leadership, but in particular an adapted protection of the soldiers. At this point, I would like to focus on mobility, because mobility, in a timely and appropriate way, is a major point. That is why we are setting up a number of measures to best compensate bottlenecks as reported in the past few weeks. We responded promptly to the concerns of the commanders and freed funds of €1.75 million to improve the situation through retransmissions over the last few weeks. In addition, a mobility coordinator in the General Staff was used in the Ministry, which ensures that existing capacities are used optimally. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. High house! Based on this assessment of the most likely tasks, the resource needs of the individual so-called military deployments are derived. These are infantry, our special forces such as the hunting command, the pioneers, but of course also our ABC defense force. As a result, these weapons pits for use in Germany and abroad are also curtailed. At the same time, a re-dimensionalation of the gun holes of tanks, artillery and anti-flying equipment takes place on a so-called reconstruction core. That is to say, we are getting a core of the systems and the corresponding knowledge in all military weapons, including the heavy weapons. Should the security situation in Europe change dramatically, the German army can react to it. That means: In case of need, this existing core can be redeveloped in a timely manner. Furthermore, my mission is to continue the military reform with the aim of a modern, meaningful ground military service and training for the recruits and the military. In this context, I should like to remind you that in the report on the reform of the ground defence service, we have adopted around 180 individual measures to attract the ground defense service together with the coalition partner and involving recruits, military members and representatives of the Blue Light Organisations. This implementation will continue continuously and continuously evaluate. The measures implemented so far are still being challenged by me from the regulatory budget. The militia will continue to play an important role and will be upgraded as part of the concept of ÖBH 2018. This means the quantitative increase of 12 additional companies in Austria by 2018 and a material improvement. This requires investments of around €26 million in a first step. At the same time, however, I say that this is only possible through special funding. In the future, the Austrian army will play an important role in the defence service, but also in the military. Honourable Members! High house! Despite the reduction of the organization, it is largely avoided that entire battalions should be dissolved and large garrisons closed. Instead, small, uneconomic locations are closed and efficient operation is made possible through the compaction of personnel and material at large locations. The use of equipment and properties, as provided for in the government programme, is intended to be used for necessary investments. Active airspace monitoring has already been made more flexible. However, additional financial resources are needed to continue maintaining this task. In this context, let me also make a comment on the Eurofighter system: With regard to our airspace surveillance, we are obliged, because of our constitutional neutrality, to secure our airspace independently. This requires appropriate aircraft. At the time, a FPÖ minister decided to acquire the Eurofighter system. The device's here now. If I shut it down, I have to get other jets that carry out the same task. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Since a number of representatives of military music chapels are sitting on the gallery today and following this response to the urgent question carefully, I would also like to address the topic of military music actively. As I have explained earlier, the Austrian Federal Army has for years had to deal with less and less financial resources. However, the tasks we have to deal with together have not become less. On the contrary! That is why we have to turn every euro three times at the hour. We need to be more efficient in all areas and we need to save it. That's why military music is narrowed. We intend to form a large Austrian-wide military music with four exteriors from nine military music chapels. In this way we ensure that military music will be heard in the future at all military events in all federal states. Ladies and gentlemen, I should now like to move on to the field of special investment. Despite painful measures, which I have already presented, procurement continues to take place, which is still open to funding. In detail are the helicopter fleet for the disaster relief, the successor aircraft for the Saab 105 for airspace surveillance, the area of equipment of the militia and also the equipment of the troop with modern vehicles. It is not possible to vote in favour of the current budget. If there is no support here, I believe that there will be massive restrictions on operational readiness. For this reason, I have also been looking for early discussions at government level with then Minister of Finance Spindelegger and also with his successor, colleague Schelling. I also held bilateral talks with all the national leaders and with all the speakers of the parliamentary clubs. Of course, I have also exchanged intensively and earlyly with the chief commander of the Austrian federal army, Federal President Dr. Heinz Fischer, about the situation and the conclusions. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. High house! Let me once again say: I have just outlined to you the main cornerstones of the Austrian federal army's structural package. The concept is coherent in itself and is currently within the coalition in final vote. After the consultations have been concluded, I would of course like to come back to discuss questions about the agreed package in detail. I can say for my part: We're in good conversation. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! I firmly state here and today that the Austrian Federal Army will continue to carry out its fully committed tasks on the basis of the concept of ÖBH 2018 plus special investment. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank our Chief General Commenda, who is responsible for the entire project team, for the very professional work. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as representatives of Greens and Team Stronach.]] I would also like to express great thanks to all our soldiers and our civil servants for their achievements and their tireless commitment in Austria and abroad for the benefit of the Republic of Austria. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is important for me to make my position clear here in the House: Security and defence policy is not suitable for the enforcement of political individual interests. Security policy must not be included by populist and questionable campaigns in the run-up to human representation elections or other party political events. [[Abg. Kickl: Jessas na, it's getting worse!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Doppler.]] Rather, the design of security and defence policy is an essential strategic task for the general public, to which all the political leaders are called together, as the guarantee of internal and external security for the Austrian population forms the basis for all other public tasks. Security is the basic prerequisite for social prosperity and growth. Now to answer the questions – to questions 1 to 5, 20, 21, 33 and 35 to 37: Under the direction of the Chief of General Staff, the main military experts of the Republic of Austria have developed the concept of ÖBH 2018. This concept has been developed taking into account the legal framework, the safety policy requirements and the current threat picture. Of course, the questions raised by you have been taken into account. It is important for me to stress once again the likely tasks to be undertaken; these are: the protection of critical infrastructure such as the Vienna Airport, the water supply networks or the security of power supply networks, the assistance in natural disasters, the surveillance of airspace, the peacekeeping operations abroad, the training of our ground defenses and the defence of threats from the cyberspace. [[Abg. Kickl: You said that anyway!]] These tasks must be carried out at a modern stage, in particular in the military defence of the country. [[Abg. Kickl: How many times will you say that now?]] Questions 6 to 10: The text of the Neutrality BVG lays down the following obligations: We commit ourselves not to participate in wars, not to join any military alliance and not to allow the establishment of military bases of foreign states. – Of course, these obligations are met. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] Questions 7 to 9: The derivatives of the ÖBH 2018 concept are based on the requirements of the federal constitution, the government programme and the Austrian security strategy adopted on a broad basis in this House. Through the preservation of a reconstruction core, the ability to fight the connected weapons continues to exist. Questions 11 and 12: Overall, annual defence expenditure within the European Union has dropped from around €250 billion in 2001 to around € 190 billion – tending to fall. The relative weight of defence expenditure on GDP varies considerably, and these figures are also not validly comparable. This is, for example, already due to the different methods of calculating defence expenditure. Other countries, for example, also charge pension payments. In Finland, for example, about €2.1 billion is about 1.3 percentage points of GDP. In Ireland, 1 billion € is about 0.55 percentage points of GDP, and in Austria about 2 billion euros currently account for around 0.6 percentage points of GDP. On the question 13: The request made by the President-in-Office Zilk is in the preface to the report but was not decided by the Commission. Questions 14 to 16: As a result of the budget pressure, no area is excluded from tightening. Detailed planning will take place immediately after agreement at government level. In any case, my intention is to narrow the ministerial structure. On the question 17: The savings requirements set out in the Federal Financial Framework Act must be complied with. This means that over the next five years, we alone need to reduce more than 500 employees; in addition, the budgetary framework requirements require further measures. I can say that all staff are offered a replacement job. Questions 18 and 19: There are already legal standards for around 2,500 staff employed in the Austrian Federal Army. As far as a new military service right is concerned, I can't do it quickly enough personally, we're going to attack it in a contemporary way. On question 22 I quote the current Austrian security strategy, in which it is literally held: “Conventional attacks against Austria have become unlikely in the foreseeable future.” The current developments are constantly observed and evaluated by the experts of my home. On the question 23: In the future, mountain capacities will continue to be maintained in the mechanized associations and, of course, in case of need, will be available for disaster aid. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Street@item incidence access is by owner only]] Question 24: The Austrians can rely on the Austrian government to continue to fulfil its basic mission – protection and assistance – to the fullest extent. The introduction of modern equipment – both for ABC defense and for pioneers – will continue. On questions 25, 26 and 28: You will understand that I do not want to prejudge the results of the negotiations at government level. However, I am optimistic that we will achieve a good common outcome for the Austrian population. On the question 27: This situation would make it necessary to re-evaluate it completely. On questions 29 to 31: Decisions shall be taken in a timely manner. I personally and the Austrian Federal Army would like to make a quick decision. In any case, the Saab 105 and the Alouette III helicopters will no longer be available from 2020, and if the Black Hawk helicopter update is not carried out, they will no longer fly 2018. On question 32: Following the concept of ÖBH 2018, combat tanks and artillery will be held at the 4. ==References====External links== Panzergrenadier brigade receives a new focus. On question 34: In principle, this does not concern my field of execution. In my area, the necessary measures have been put in place. On the question 38: This does not concern my field of execution, but rather the assessment and evaluations of the Federal Ministry of the Interior responsible for it. On questions 39 and 40: The funds necessary for the performance of the contract shall be made available. On questions 41 to 43: The militia is given a new mission, which is, among other things, the protection of critical infrastructure. The militia will have 105 000 days of exercise available. These are more days than were finally used in the previous years. On question 44: Yes. On questions 45 to 47: In the concept of ÖBH 2018, closures are planned at seven locations – in Vomp, Tamsweg, Horn, Freistadt, Bleiburg, Linz and Wiener Neustadt. It is important to me that, as agreed in the government programme, the sales revenues of my house are available for investment. As you all know, the amount of sales proceeds is market-dependent. Our goal is to achieve the highest possible price. Question 48: The question is a mistake because the revenue of €50 million is not related to cash sales revenues. These €50 million include, for example, revenue from arms sales, support services, the operation of the military homes and disciplinary penalties. Question 49: I have already answered this question in the entrance statement. Question 50: This situation is currently being fully examined and evaluated by the experts of my home. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e4322	We are now going into the debate. [[Call the gallery.]] – I’m trying to end the rally at the gallery! I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, with each club having a total speaking time of 25 minutes. Mr Kunasek is the first to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e4356	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr Federal Minister, first of all congratulations also from me about the birth of your daughter! I believe, of course, that such private experiences and, above all, beautiful days have their place here in the House, but today we also have another area to discuss, namely the disastrous situation of the German army, and, Mr Federal Minister, I am unfortunately not able to spare you that we are talking here about developments that concern you and your place of business. I say it quite openly: Last March, when you presented yourself here in this House as Minister of Defense, I also gave you respect from this speaker's desk and said that much of what you said should also be supported by the FPÖ. What has arrived here today and is reflected in your speech, however, has nothing to do with what you said last year in March. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Federal Minister, this is not only bound by the refusal of reality, but also, of course, by the sale of security as a whole! In view of the current situation of the Federal Army, ladies and gentlemen, given what is reflected daily in horror reports in the media, where we MEPs are told by senior officers and experts that many tasks of the Federal Army – including constitutional tasks of the Federal Government – are no longer fulfilled, we cannot go to the agenda here and act as if nothing had been done. Even the military commander of Upper Austria said in an ORF interview that he no longer believes that the constitutional tasks are to be fulfilled, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let us take a closer look at developments since last year! A previous speaker, namely our clubman Strache, has already mentioned the popular survey in January 2013, in which 60 percent of Austrians have clearly expressed their support for the military service, for the maintenance of civil service, and consequently also for the reform of the defence service. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask quite openly: What is left of this reform of the basic defence service? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler.]] [[Abg. Kickl: (the corresponding gesture making) Puff!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] Today, we learn from the newspapers that ground defense servants have to pay their return from Allensteig to the Styria from their own pocket. – This is scandalous, ladies and gentlemen, and has nothing to do with reforming and attracting the basic defence service! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] After this popular survey, we – and Mr. Klug, in his speech today, have also said it several times – jointly decided on the security strategy, namely SPÖ, ÖVP, the Freeman and the Stronach team, on a broad parliamentary basis, in order to find out after the National Council election: Well, actually, we have too little money to finance the federal army. One has, and cannot be swept away from the table today, completely adopted by the government and also by the government parties of this security strategy. One has taken a course that we liberals certainly cannot support, namely the way: so much money is so much federal army. – Mr Federal Minister, we do not see this approach at all. It can only be like this: first, security strategy; second, sub-strategy of national defence, as mentioned by you; third: building on the sub-strategy the structure, and then, my dear ladies and gentlemen of the EIA, also a proper budgetary equipment to implement it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Friendly Fire of the ÖVP from the Ministry of Finance!]] [[Abg. Strache: Collateral damage!]] Since 3. In October there is this paper, namely the structural package with the actually treachery title: [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] “Measures for the performance adjustment of the German army” – I assume that the performance adjustment has taken place downwards – a paper that does not build on security analysis, not on the security strategy, Mr. Federal Minister, but has led to a shack in the security field from pure sparing pressure and sparing pressure. Above all, Mr. Federal Minister, if you look at them in total at around 30 pages – with ten pages being a purely arms show with data sheets – then you will find no potential for saving. On the contrary: This means balding, which means selling out security, which also means fighting connected weapons and, of course, losing core competences in a wide range, ladies and gentlemen, too. We cannot speak of this today, just as Mr Klug has done here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, it is really true that this paper – we call it structural package New, performance adjustment down – is only the i-tumble on a development of recent years and decades, in which the German army has already been driven to the brink of defense and operational capability, also by SPÖ and ÖVP. We know today that we have already saved € 2 billion in the last few years, we also know that we have had serious difficulties in the area of infrastructure, in the field of service law – I will come back later – but of course also in the area of arms and investment before this structural paper, and of course it is clear that there are bottlenecks. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, last week I looked at a device-organ-plan of a hunter battalion in Styria, and see – what I read here now – what happened before the structural package – we already have the biggest difficulties. Example: In the area of trucks, the crew van which has already been mentioned today: a total of eleven, a stock of four, a missing of seven, results in a missing of 64 percent; in the area of the Pandur wheel tank: a total of 65, a stock of 39, a missing of 26, results in a total of 40 percent of the missing. That means, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, we have already reached a point where we can no longer fulfil the constitutional tasks - and this device also serves to protect the critical infrastructure, Mr Bundesminister. [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Reciprocating.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice to meet you.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, I cannot spare you this. I have always had the impression that the government partner of Mr Klug's Federal Minister's Government is leaning back and enjoying how he is being disillusioned here in Parliament or also in the public presentation – of course also rightly – but you also have responsibility, namely, responsibility in the sense of budgetary equipment, responsibility, as what you always like to know publicly, namely as a defence and security party, where you, Mr Schönegger, have already signed down for a long time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Woeinger]] [[Abg. Street: Logged out! There's no more!]] [[Further call at the FPÖ:Bye..!]] I should therefore like to address a second area, ladies and gentlemen, namely the right to serve, which has already been mentioned today. Mr. Klug has said that he cannot go fast enough. – Yes, it may and must now go quickly, because – I have already said this from this speaker’s desk – we also have massive difficulties in the personnel sector. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is high time to do something in this area too! It would also be high time for my ladies and gentlemen from the ÖVP – here you also have the support of our group – to think about foreign operations once, if we are no longer able to carry out our home tasks accordingly. That is why we are also saying yes when it comes to – as the Federal Minister says – without considering taboos in all areas. It must be possible to temporarily reduce foreign operations, it must be possible to set priorities, and we will make an appropriate application today. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Federal Minister, I am sorry to say that the confidence placed by our group in you has not been available since this structural package at the latest. I should therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, don't worry – the special funding provided for in this structural package will also meet you. I hope that next year we will not see ourselves here again because we have to make a mistrust against the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e4561	The applications submitted are sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] Request for Distrust § 55 GOG-NR by Mr Kunasek, Mr Strache, Mr Bösch and others, on the failure of confidence in the Federal Minister for Defence and Sport In the course of the debate on the urgent question concerning “The Federal Hero of Austria is at risk of neutrality and disaster protection” in 43. National Council meeting, XXV. ==References== ==References== The Federal Minister for Defence and Sport Mag. Klug is responsible for the disastrous state of the Austrian federal army. On warning words of the minister in the media in February 2014, “We arrived at the bottom of the barrel”, APA0572 of 27.2.2014, there may have been a rupture of the Federal Chancellor, for the truth was immediately beautified. One still has the full-bodied words of the Minister of Defense of the 20th century. May 2014 in the ear: “Every one of you who is ready for a solid future of our army and the To combat necessary financial resources and the necessary equipment, I have a reliable and stubborn ally within me." The result of this statement was a “structural package – measures for the federal army’s performance adjustment”. A highly moving title for a simple but incisive savings package with disastrous consequences for the army, the country and the citizens of Austria! The army's willingness to use is only more limited due to reduced or decommissioning materials due to lack of financial resources and will no longer be available in some areas such as airspace surveillance from 2020 onwards. Consciously, the loss of the army's core competences is taken into account on the basis of the savings measures. The power of the army is no longer in line with the constitutional requirements and the Austrian Security Strategy, due to the political failure of the division. It is time to assume responsibility for this failure. Therefore, the Members who have been signed make the following comments: Resolution The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Minister for Defence and Sport is referred to in Art. 74 para. 1 B-VG, by express resolution of the National Council, does not give rise to confidence.’
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e4678	Next speaker: Mr Pendl. – I set up seven minutes of voluntary speaking time and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e4699	Madam President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and in front of the TV screens! If we can no longer discuss an important point of our home country, our Republic, namely security and the German army, but only more day-political, polemic, honoured Ladies and gentlemen, then we know where we are! [[Abg. Kickl: Then you can sit down again!]] [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I tell you, the development of the Austrian federal army is a long one. – But the truth! [[Abg. Kickl: The same scum!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] You just don't want to hear it. Ask the then FPÖ Minister of Defense Herbert Scheibner – in front of Knittelfeld – how he went to the then FPÖ Finance Minister Grasser, and you will see – look at all this, in writing and therefore read it! –, he came home without money. [[call to the FPÖ]] And these two ministers have laid the foundation stone for the present situation of the army, our army. We must actually thank all the staff and congratulate them on these services they provide under the given framework conditions for which you at the time have sown the seed, for the 2 billion are due to you. [[Abg. Kickl: That's for generating!]] [[Abg. Kickl: That's for generating!]] Just so that we know what we are talking about here, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Abg. Pillow.]] On the question of uncertainty to all areas, everyone knows from the media that this Federal Government has set up a political working group dealing with the issues that lie on the table. [[Abg. Kunasek: This is cheap polemics, Mr. Cot!]] I am sorry that young Gymnasiaists of the Gymnasium Wiener Neustadt are being insecured there. When you listen, you get the impression that you had been locked up yesterday. This working group will discuss these issues, and this Federal Government has never left anyone in this Republic in the rain. But we must talk about it, ladies and gentlemen, negotiating, thinking about how to deal with the dangers of today and, above all, the threat scenarios of tomorrow in this tense budgetary situation. Yes, this is not only allowed, but it is even an obligation of our federal government, ladies and gentlemen, to do so. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Mr. Klubobmann Strache! On every occasion – and this is to be read in the parliamentary documents – when it comes to Court of Auditors reports, you are at the speaker's desk and say: The Court of Auditors has proposed, first, second, third, and then quote, and this evil government does not do that! But now you are wrong, because all the points that have now been proposed have been called into question by the Court of Auditors more often. This is the sad reality. [[Abg. Street: The Court of Auditors has said that we have 25 tanks?]] There you can do what you want, I do not say yet that I am for one thing or another, but these are the points which the Court of Auditors has proposed to read in the May 2012 Court of Auditors report. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] So, now we can say: Either we want the Court of Auditors to be taken seriously or we do not want to. I know that once the sun shines and once the rain blows down. I said from this speaker's desk before the summer: I'm looking at the discussion in autumn! Because, Mr. Kunasek, that's PV choices, I told you months ago, and I told you months ago that you're trying to turn everything around on others. But do you really believe that the Austrians and the Austrians, but also the soldiers, do not know that you have been there in the last few years and that today's Federal Government is trying to repair what you have been with in decades?- Oh, my God! – To make that clear. [[Abg. A real cabaret, Mr Pendl!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] I say that we actually need a national shoulder closure. We must try together to create the best conditions for this state and its people in the interests of citizens, in the interests of young people, in the interests of security both nationally and internationally. [[Abg. Strache: A real cabaret!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] We should actually use time for this and not for unnecessary mistrust and unnecessary discussion, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I really wonder – I am a contemporary witness and I have been in the negotiations of the so-called security strategy – and I have to ask: Have you forgotten that you all called for the 1,100 soldiers in foreign service? Did you forget that? – No one asked for that from the SPÖ! You were significantly involved. Now we have done it – and I think it makes sense, because this experience that the soldiers are making abroad is valuable and the security added value for national security, that is to say, time-laged, is great. And our soldiers are doing great things at national and international level. They can only be thanked for this and congratulated on it. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] And I invite you all to join us in a security strategy with a well-functioning federal army and a well-functioning police for the people of our home country. [[Abg. Strache: We need the money for us to implement it! This strategy is not to do with this money!]] Not Sunday's speeches, not Blablabla, but sitting down, negotiating and making something constructive.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e4920	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Nice to meet you. Seven minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e4942	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Unfortunately, at the beginning of this special meeting, it was expected that it was precisely what many people who were seriously and sustainably concerned about the topic of national defence had feared: Klubobmann Strache, the opposition leader, once again misused a special meeting to give his scandalisation and aggression rhetoric space, and took care of the content and the matter. [[Calls for Greens]] That's a shame! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kunasek.]] One thing I would like to take up: The German army needed a red and white-red shoulder closure today, but not this scandalous rhetoric of the FPÖ. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kunasek: Are you the defense officer of the Federal Minister?]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are holding today's debate on national defence against the background of serious security changes in Europe. I speak of Ukraine, I speak of the barbarism of the self-proclaimed Islamic state. [[Abg. That's why we're saving it broken, isn't it?]] I am talking about the unending refugee flows from North Africa and Syria, and I am talking about the inestimable risks associated with Ebola. Dear ladies and gentlemen in the High House! It is not less than the security of our Republic! And you all know about other very specific hazard scenarios, from conventional to hybrid, to not conventional. Parts of these hazard scenarios are known to us, others are equipped with certain chances, such as blackouts. Ladies and gentlemen, it will be crucial that, on the basis of a resistance strategy for Austria, we shape the skills and thus the structure for the Austrian federal army. On issues of such importance and importance, there must never be any cheap party policy polemics. Mr. Klubobmann Strache, your verbal innkeepers and commons were completely displaced! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] High house! The Austrian Federal Army is an important cornerstone of our democracy. [[Abg. Strache: Then don't break it!]] The Austrian Federal Army is a guarantee for the sovereignty of Austria. The Sovereign, the People, has us as a legislator on the 20th. In January 2013 a clear mandate was given, an order for the maintenance of the military obligation. [[Abg. Strache: Take the people seriously, don't worry about it!]] The EIA is committed to this task without if and but, to attracting compulsory military service and to further speeding up, possibly even faster, the implementation of the measures taken. [[Abg. That's a bad joke!]] The fact that NEOS may be making a revelation and demanding the abolition of compulsory military service today does not surprise us further, it is the logic of an oligarch party not to respect popular decisions. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the previous year, the National Council decided on the Austrian security strategy. Building on this and following a completely logical development process, the sub-strategy for defence policy, which will contain the necessary concreteisation, must now be negotiated. [[Abg. Where's the paper?]] I say it again: It was important to us as ÖVP from the beginning to negotiate this partial strategy first and then to align the structure accordingly. [[Abg. Kunasek: But this has happened the other way round, Mr. Cot!]] Or, as our vice chancellor Mitterlehner has very precisely observed: The structure follows the strategy and never the other way round! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! With more than 25,000 employees – and for this we stand – it is logical that structural adjustments, structural modifications, adaptations to the new requirements should always be made. But one thing we say very clearly at this point: The federal army needs a power-related conversion and not a random radical degradation. Efficiency and effectiveness are required in all areas of state action. The comrades from the Balkans to Feldbach expect this for good reason and rightly from us. High house! The problems we are discussing today are not new. New is that the problems are cumulative, transparent, balled and unsightly on the table. I would like to thank Mr Klug for this. I would also like to thank the fact that last Sunday, in the press, he made a very clear reference to the failure of his predecessor, Minister Darabos. I know that was very courageous, but it was right and important, because in this difficult situation, one learns from the mistakes of the past. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] High house! We of the ÖVP hold: The German army – consisting of a motivated cadre, a regionally fortified, human and infrastructure-enhanced militia and of course well-trained basic defence servants – must continue to retain the necessary skills and competences to carry out all of its tasks in the future. These include primarily domestic tasks, including airspace monitoring, as well as the protection of critical infrastructure, energy suppliers, transport hubs, water supply, as well as disaster protection for the population. [[Abg. Strache: Unfortunately, all this is not to be maintained, as even the officers say!]] Furthermore, there is no doubt that our soldiers in the European security architecture will continue to make an important contribution in the form of foreign operations. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the unruly feeling of people that it has not just become safer in this world is right. And the German army must also be able to protect the Republic of Austria in the future. [[Abg. Strache: Then why don't you do anything for it?]] We are therefore also critical of the proposals made in the General Staff Saving Concept in some respects, and we will still have to negotiate there. I repeat: The ÖVP stands for a conversion, but not for a decommissioning. [[Abg. Stache: But the budget you're giving is destruction!]] And if the Freedom Party believes today to be able to solve the problem with cheap populism and uncertainty, then I can tell you that neither cheaper populism nor expensive ads help the federal army. [[Abg. Strache: They create insecurity!]] The German army is helping clear structures and honest partners, and for that we are to have! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: Unfortunately, they create uncertainty, that's the reality!]] We will therefore examine all the measures very carefully and consider very carefully what measures have the consequences. But we will never ever leave the Austrian federal army, nor the soldiers in the rain. [[Abg. That's what you're doing!]] When I look in the direction of gallery, where before was also an intermediate call regarding military music: Ladies and gentlemen! I also urge you not to give up the question of military music. For example, if the Styrian bando Oskar Bernhart says that this is a heavy blow against the wind music in general, this argument is serious to take, and we need to discuss this solution-oriented, just as the question of military realgymnasium or flight school Langenlebarn. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I really want to thank all the members of the Austrian Federal Army. They do excellent work every day, and their work is to maintain the functioning of the Austrian federal army in this difficult situation. Thank you very much for that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: don't claim defence policy!]] Our soldiers take an oath, an oath to protect the Republic of Austria. If it has to be, we also demand to defend the Republic of Austria by means of force of arms. That means that this oath also obliges us all here. He commits us to a commitment to comprehensive national defence, and I am following the Constitution to make this confession here as well. Ladies and gentlemen! We will stand up for the soldiers, for the entire federal army and thus for the security of the Republic with all the means available to us. And unlike those who have today also sacrificed the national defense on the altar of populism, we will continue to fight for the soldiers, for the federal army, even though the lights of the media are not as bright as they are today. [[Abg. Kunasek: Once again!]] [[Abg. Darmann: Refusal of reality!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Since today – some will have noticed – I have also often spoken of soldiers inside, I can and may congratulate you, Mr Federal Minister, very warmly on the birth of your daughter. Good luck! And I can give you a little gift, too. It lives the Austrian federal army and today especially of course your daughter!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e5256	Mr Pilz is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e5278	Madam President. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! – Well, I can already imagine that at present a meeting with the Chief of Staff is more important than a meeting with the Austrian National Council, because if you no longer know how to proceed in your own house, then there is an urgent need for advice. [[Federal Minister Klug talks with members of the Federal Government.]] Only: My proposal is yes: We also offer assistance to the Minister. We are convinced that much of the Austrian federal army is worthy of preservation. And if the Minister takes place again on the government bank, we can certainly make some proposals to him. So, it's obviously not that far, so I'm going to the private part for a moment – welcome! – and congratulate you, Mr Minister, on having become a father. [[Federal Minister Klug takes place again at the government bank]] You've certainly earned yourself a very thorough father month in private. I fear, however, that the Austrian federal army has also earned a papal month from you, because if what you are presenting is implemented in this way, Minister Klug, then I am not sure that this is good for the German army and for the security of Austria. I do not now blame you for being responsible for all that your predecessors have put in for us, and I do not have to repeat everything now, why the Eurofighters are actually a Freedom Party aircraft, which has simply been raised up by a freedom-wing Minister of Defense by a Free Minister of Finance. [[Abg. Strache: Was that not the black finance minister Grasser?]] Now, after many other child movements, the Freedom Party is also pursuing combat plane removal. [[call to the FPÖ.]] Fighting plane set-off! No, there is a great political responsibility of the Freedom Party, and Klubobmann Strache should also be man's enough to stand up to this great historical responsibility of the Freedom Party. But maybe it's not him. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The responsibility of the Minister of Defence is completely different. Let's take a little bit of a short-term memory. Remember, as you said a three-quarters ago, how great is everything going to be that now paradisiac times are coming for the federal army, that now the military obligation is being reformed, that everything will get better, that everything will become more modern, that everything will be wonderful? And a three-quarters later, you are here in the National Council, and the paper, which is on the urgent request and the answer to the question, is probably the bankruptcy request. I, the Minister of Defense, apply for bankruptcy for the Austrian Federal Army and seek to use me as a mass administrator. – In this situation, we are now. And a mass administrator – and you are nothing else – has a primary task: to say what is worth receiving and what is to be locked. That's what makes a proper mass manager. So, Minister of Defense, you act like a proper mass administrator and tell us what after a few small empty barracks and a little bit more, a few scraped tanks, a few scraped tanks, really locked up and what can be locked up or isolated! They're talking about core tasks. Yes then define the core tasks! And then tell us what the target committee – and I have been working with the Chief of Staff and some others in this target committee for over two years – has recommended! – Finally, to note that military defence is no longer the priority task of finally taking note of the fact that the Republic of Austria has long since arrived in Europe in security policy and has to do something from this central European situation in security policy! Yes, this is a chance when the Eurofighter system collapses, namely the chance of finally considering: What is the Austrian initiative for a first-time Central European and then common European airspace surveillance? Yes, the scrapped device is also a chance: Down to the scrapyard with all the combat tanks and all the tanks, so that there is room for something new! We don't need all of this anymore! How do you answer a three-quarters of a year after the popular survey that more than 20,000 young men remain each year without knowing what to sit around in half-scattered barracks?- Oh, my God! They promised them Wi-Fi – far and wide no Wi-Fi! They have promised them that they will no longer peel the earth’s apples – Earth’s apple shell records are currently being set up by presenters! They have promised that they will no longer play as ordination waiters in officers casinos. The waiter's profession among the present servants or the waiter's calling, maybe you see it that way, is driving new flowers! As much has never been described as it has been in recent months. Let me tell you about Burgenland barracks, as I have done in recent weeks! - There must be something to change! But there is a lot of worth receiving, from the General Staff on the Army News Office, about parts of the pioneers, about the modern parts of mechanized infantry with their excellent achievements at UN operations abroad, and, and, and,. There's a lot of things worth keeping. But if you do not separate the value obtained from what we no longer need, then damage the good core substance of the Austrian federal army. And that's the point: We must save that on the federal army and preserve what we really need for the future, and the rest is locked up! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And one thing I would also like to know from you, Mr Federal Minister, and perhaps anyone from the Freedom Party will be able to address it: In view of the conditions of Eurofighters to combat tanks, do you really come up with the proposal to keep everything from Eurofighters to military commanders, in this National Council and say I would like to add €200 million?- Oh, my God! Faith You really do that there can be any one of us responsible for additional €200 million – without you shutting down the Eurofighters without you abolishing the military commanders without you locking up all the unnecessary parts of the army without you saying that the pragmatized scrapyard of the federal army will finally be locked up?- Oh, my God! And maybe you have any idea where this money is supposed to come from? – The budget deficit is not increased, as the Federal Government has decided! Where are these 200 million to come from? Who pays that? – Education policy? Is that your proposal? This proposal has come from the Stronach team. You still owe the answer: Should the schools pay? Should the universities pay? Should research pay? Should health policy pay? Should the care pay? Should the infrastructure pay? Where is it to come from? And now don't tell me the story of the administrative reform again! If we agree that the administrative reform that you are about to implement will provide funding for something in the Republic, then nothing will be financed at all. There will probably be a completely different federal government to take up a reform of the administration. So, and that's the point: I do not think it is responsible for a minister coming to Parliament, given the financial crisis, given the state of the banks, in view of income development, in view of social insecurity, in view of the educational need, and I do not know where, but please 200 million of this House! There are all kinds of military vultures, but the donkey, who produces these sums, does not exist in the Austrian federal army either. And that's why we have the right before you demand that we give you extra money, that you tell us where it should come from, where you really save and where the really hard cuts are. Then: Don't tell me and the people who watch the few empty barracks close is a hard cut! So, and finally, because I think it is very serious and for an example, how something is not dealt with unimportantly, also a small word about military music. Military music will not make a significant contribution to the military security of Austria. I also think it is not a task for the Austrian federal army to entertain military wind music, but I think it is very good because I know the quality of music there and know what that means for the music in the federal states as a whole and also for many young people, to get it. And now I turn to people like the Lower Austrian head of state. In St. Pölten to yell around, to juxify the money with residential speculations, to have money for everything and then to say that the wind music is to be financed from the funds of the federal army: [[Abg. Wheeler: Hello!]] [[Abg. Kogler: Right!]] Mr Pröll, get into your own pocket and finance this music, because it must be the money for that! [[Abg. Rädler: Check out the Wiener! The Greens!]] This wind music, these chapels, and this applies to Vienna, to Vorarlberg and to all the federal states that have the right to be supported, but from the national budgets! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And I would finally like to have a reasonable proposal from you, how it goes with the German army and how it should be financed. Federal Minister! As long as you do not have concrete proposals and as long as you say that I am just blocking a bit, but in principle I am continuing, you have no right to stand before this National Council and to say that I want extra taxpayers. I hope that this House will not give you these additional taxpayers, because only the saving pressure and probably the emergency situation can force you to finally have a serious reform of the Austrian federal army, which at least we really want in this House. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e5402	Mrs. Dr. Nachbaur is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e5425	Madam President. Dear government representatives! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Guests at the gallery! Dear taxpayers! I very much welcome the Salzburg delegation of the Salzburg Blasmusikverband with its chairman, Mr Rieger, and the Landesobmann of the Blasmusikverband Vorarlberg, Mr Baldauf. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team as well as with representatives of SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] I also, of course, congratulate Mr Klug very, very warmly on the birth of his child before I come to my content. On the issue of federal army, there are very many open, unsolved questions, and I recommend the government not only in this respect to take and govern their professional name literally. “Government” comes from the Latin “regret” and means “leading” and “lying”. Leaders and leaders require that those responsible first think about the subject and then take action based on their decisions. For the topic of federal army, it would have meant that we first represent the purpose of our federal army, question the status quo, define the goal in conjunction with foreign policy and then decide which structures are necessary for the defined purpose and how these are financed. In other countries, it is called security policy. In the absence of such a security policy in Austria, one has taken the path here to simply starve the federal army and see what is happening. It is clear to those responsible that this federal army is no longer suitable for the national defence in the classical sense. However, this is required in the Federal Constitution Article 9a, where Austria has committed itself to the comprehensive military defence and maintenance of the ever-increasing armed neutrality. There are now two important questions: The first question is: Are we able to defend this neutrality, as our Constitution demands, or has the Constitution already been changed in a sluggish way? And the second question is: Are we even neutral? The first question can be answered more easily: We are clearly unable to fulfil our constitutional task of maintaining our armed neutrality. Kaserns are locked in order. Airplanes can hardly fly. For Heeres trucks, there's no sprit. There is hardly enough clothing for soldiers, and disasters may only take place after prior notice, provided that the aid of the Federal Army is desired. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The to-de-spare of the federal army and the abolition of neutrality represent an overall change in the Austrian federal constitution, and the people must vote on it. But as you can see, the opinion of the people doesn't matter to you anyway. You'll find a way to get to your goal, which is probably even to abolish our federal army. You're probably already thinking about the stroke of the tap for the adoption of our army. The second question is: Is Austria really neutral? – Looking back in history, one sees that neutrality was an emergency solution in the cold war. Austria undertook to declare itself militaryly neutral in the "Moskauer Memorandum" after withdrawal of the occupation troops, and the Soviet Union promised to sign the State Treaty. But Austria has never taken its neutrality very seriously, neither what the country borders nor what the airspace is going on. The existing remaining neutrality with accession to the EU has finally been removed. That is why I say that the Austrian government should once again have the courage to tell the Austrian citizens the truth: Your neutrality no longer exists! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] But you do not do this because a formal revocation of the Neutrality Act would be seen as an overall change of the federal constitution and therefore a referendum would be held. And I assume that you would lose these because the majority of the Austrians are clearly in favour of maintaining neutrality. But back to the federal army. According to § 2 Wehrgesetz, the tasks are quite clearly defined, and I would like to express great praise to our soldiers at this point. They do great work despite the lousy conditions. Thank you! [[Congratulations with the Stronach team, as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] We must create conditions for our federal army to receive the appreciation it deserves for our soldiers to be top-motivated. And it should, says Clausewitz, “be ready for the weak, the defense subject always. ” Given today's high risk situation in Eastern Europe, in the Middle East, in view of the IS terror and possible terrorist acts and uprisings, including within our own national borders, we must be able to defend ourselves. I also say that the completely missing immigration policy that Austria has operated in recent years and decades has brought to Austria street battles and wars of cultures of other countries just as much as a fearsome rising anti-Semitism. We can't let that happen! We have to be able to defend ourselves! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Austria is also expected to become more involved and mediated in international conflicts. This has so far been done by the blue helmets, but the United Nations is greatly paralysed by conflicting interests in the Security Council. If the Austrians are still convinced of neutrality, Austria can play a very important role in preventing the EU from becoming NATO's political arm. It is to be feared that the militarization of policy in Europe will be promoted. And if Austria does not have a clear position here, then it will find itself in the middle of it, just as in the case of these terrible economic sanctions now in Eastern Europe, for which ultimately our entrepreneurs and our workers will have to pay the token. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Bismarck said: "The army is the most prominent of all institutions in each country, because it alone allows the existence of all other institutions. All political and bourgeois freedom, all creations of culture and finance stand and fall with the army." But politics cannot expect the soldiers to defend our country with mere hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e5551	Mr Magistrate has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Vavrik. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e5572	Madam President. Dear Members of the Government! High house! Minister! Also from the NEOS club the best wishes for your daughter's birth. I congratulate you! Today's subject has a scope for the security of Austria, which is far beyond what is normally happening in this plenary session. I would therefore like to address my speech today in particular to you, the Austrians and Austrians, on the edge of the audience and in front of the televisions. The German army, dear fellow citizens, is in a deep crisis that has never occurred in the history of the Second Republic. It seems to be a budget crisis. The occasion of this special meeting is the presentation last week by the Minister of Defense of a so-called structural package for the Federal Army, which essentially consists of savings measures on the one hand and on the other hand of the demand for special funding. But the German army is not only going through a budget crisis. The Austrian federal army, dear citizens, is experiencing a crisis of existence. The constant systematic budget cuts in recent years, the arbitrary caputt savings of the Austrian, our federal army, are the expression of a stepmotherly treatment of national defence by politics, in particular those of the SPÖ and ÖVP. The disastrous state of our army derives from the systemic failure of red and black for decades. These and previous SPÖ/ÖVP governments have carried out the party-political power struggle on the back of the Austrian army – with devastating consequences! The most difficult example, perhaps, is the question of compulsory military service. Then, suddenly, the SPÖ threw its decades - long attitude “per military duty ” over the night. But not because it would be convinced of the concept of a professional force, no, but simply because it seemed to a red mayor in an opportunistic way to lure his electorate with the abolition of military duty. And so, of course, the neighboring black head of state of the doctrine of his party had to relinquish as well, in the opposite direction: from the professional army to the glowing champion of a military service. He, too, does not come out of a change of mind, no, but only to demarcate his power-political slums. Thus a debate on military service was launched, which soon led to a debate on its opposite, namely civil service, right up to the actual question – I remember the question –: “Are you in favour of maintaining general military service and civil service?” Yeah, was it even more absurd? A debate sparked by half-truths, lies, fear-making and, above all, false promises, such as today's deceived citizens, but above all the members of the federal army, the militia, and the basic defenses. But the popular survey is not the only evidence of cynicism and the indifference shown by the SPÖ/ÖVP in the matter of federal army. The Austrian security strategy, already quoted today, this document, is another example. [[Keeping it in height]] This document has obviously never been taken seriously, for it expressly states that the Austrian Federal Army, I quote, “is to be consistently aligned in conception, structure, equipment and training to the tasks defined in the analysis section”. - Quote. I would like to stress: “focus on the tasks”, and not vice versa, that the tasks will be adapted to a steadily shrinking budget, to the point where the tasks can no longer be fulfilled, for there we have arrived, dear citizens! The Austrian Federal Army is no longer able to fulfil its legal mandate in many areas. This is not what I claim, but the head of the General Staff, General Commenda – he is not here anymore – writes in his letter to the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs on the paper “Eckpunkts of the Substrategy for Defence Policy”. Citation Commenda – I quote from his letter – says: “As a result of the resource situation, differences in the ability to perform tasks have to be purchased.” – Very diplomatically formulated to his boss, but quite clear. If this government had taken the Austrian security strategy seriously, which is a mandate from Parliament – that is, “the Federal Government is being asked ” – then it would have been extended for a long time by the sub-strategy for defence policy; a defence policy from which the structures and the necessary financial dispensation are derived, and not vice versa, as it is now, by cutting the horse from the back and working according to the motto: So much money – as much federal master!, as the Minister has repeatedly explained. Where, Minister, is the part-strategy defence policy that you have promised us over and over again for a year? It's been half a year since it was late April when General Commenda presented you with the cornerstones of this sub-strategy. What is the teaching of all of this? . We NEOS conclude that the most important, most urgent, change of attitude is a reflection on the responsibility we politicians bear for this country, and that central to this responsibility lies the granting of the security of our fellow citizens. It can be different whether by means of professional force or military service, whether with heavy weapons or not, whether with hunting commands, with interceptors or not, these are all legitimate, necessary discussions, but consensus must be restored that the external and internal security of a country and thus the sustainable operational capacity of the army central tasks of the state that the federal army must not get to the playing ball of short-term party political power struggles. I sometimes feel that at present the only politician who has recognized the danger that has arisen from the failure of the past decades for the German army is our President. He said clearly a few days ago: The German army is now at the point where one has to say that in the next few years investment is urgently needed in order to preserve the army in its capacity. And we cannot really blame our President for overly interfering in day-to-day politics or for thinking militaristically. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! The President's words should warn us to restore the security of our country to the importance that we as politicians owe to fellow citizens: to treat the subject seriously, objectively, solution-orientedly and openly. My appeal is also addressed to you, dear fellow citizens: Request this necessary change of attitude! If the next time a national captain sets out because he is removed from military music, remind him that the operation of a musical chapel is not part of the federal army's core tasks, and not even an army that is so impoverished that it can no longer afford ammunition, exercises, retrofitting and maintenance! I keep it with Pierre Emil George Salinger, dear fellow citizens: “A government is as bad as the citizens allow it, and as well as the citizens force it.” In this sense, I hope that today's special meeting of the start will be a reconstruction of our federal army and that the German army will be 60 years after Its foundation does not return to a Gendarmerie. It's five to twelve! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e5671	Mr Kickl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e5693	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Before I speak to you, Mr Federal Minister, I would like to refer to the comments made by Mr Pilz, who has left the hall, but with a brief speech. [[Abg. Weninger: He'll have gone out with the rhinestone!]] If someone demands honesty, which is probably the biggest defence policy in the world, which this House has ever seen, then it really becomes adventurous. I can only give Mr Pilz one thing: If it went to him, then instead of the Eurofighter, we wouldn't have another, but not a plane at all. If it went to him, then instead of our tanks, we would not have others, but no tanks at all. If it went after him, we would not have another army instead of the federal army, but not a federal army at all. – This is the truth of Peter Pilz’s defence policy! [[Congratulations with FPÖ, SPÖ and ÖVP.]] This also shows that his defence policy approaches are nothing more than, so to speak, a mean seed of the 68s fruit that goes up there. This is really the defense doctor of a Peter Pilz. Now I come to speak to you, Minister. Even today, they have not been able to convince us that the defence policy of this Republic is something but a political residual exploitation. This also applies to the financial sector. That's how it looks. You have taken a path where you expect the crises to address your financial needs. – That would be nice if that were the case. Unfortunately, this is not the case, Mr. Finanzminister. But only in this way of dealing with things means that you act highly irresponsibly. You're talking about special funding you need. – I believe that if you continue this way, this can only be done more in the form of a scrap-off premium, which you will then eventually step in for the federal army. I have brought you something to build today, so that not only is everything negative, Mr Federal Minister, by Wilhelm Busch, a somewhat older poem, but, as I believe, still relevant. I think you should listen carefully, even if you know it – perhaps you have just pushed it very, very far backwards – because I think you can take a lot from it as far as the basic conviction is about access to the state defense. It is a small poem entitled “Fuchs and hedgehogs”, and you should, I tell you beforehand, identify more with the hedgehog than with the fox. I quote: “Unforgettable on a hill are encountering fox and hedgehog. ‘Halt!' cried the fox, ‘you evildoer, do you not know the King’s order? Has not peace been declared long ago, and do you not know that everyone who is still ready is sinning? In the name of His Majesty – go here and give over your fur!’ The hedgehog said: Not so fast! Let your teeth break first; then let’s talk further.” And so he rounds up, closes his dense stagnation and defies the whole world, armed, yet as a hero of peace.” Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore presented this to the Minister, because I believe that there is a lot of truth in it, much of what the healthy understanding of the Austrian people in dealing with the national defense also expresses. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is not retro, but it is modern in modern times and in reality. You've had a new favorite word with your streetsides, and that is, “threat scenario. ” This is the turning and fishing point of your entire defence industry. They always assume it's changed. – Yes, of course, it has changed, as we are quite with you, but unlike you, Minister, we do not assume that it has become safer on this continent in recent years. No, it has not become more secure, it has become more insecure. Ukraine has already been mentioned, not too far from our gates. I don't think you called anyone from Kiev or elsewhere ten years ago and announced to you that in ten years the crisis will rise there, because ten years ago you will need to make your nuclear structure mobile again on a missionable force. I don't think that's what happened. I'm not talking about Islamization either. By the way, we would have warned about that ten years ago. What you've done is put your head in the sand. And what you've done, we'll see now. We do not know how many Islamic slumbers we already have in the country and what threats we will face to military national defence in the sense of your structural protection. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I'm not talking about the natural disasters either. I am far from degrading the German army to a disaster prevention element, as is done in many areas. However, disaster protection is also an essential task, and I do not have the impression, Mr Federal Minister, that the high-thousand waters that have already taken place every two years will be reduced, but that these threats will also increase. In such a case, how you can come to the idea of reducing everything you need in order of organisation, of performance, of impact, of exercise, of willingness to use, is a mystery to me. This is irresponsible, Minister of State, and for this alone I must say to you: You have failed as a Minister of Defense, so ambitiously you have also begun to take office!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e5754	Mrs Lueger has spoken. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e5776	Madam President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors and Watch the screens and the galleries! With the FPÖ, this time I agree with the first paragraph in the urgent question. Yes, it is thanks to all the soldiers, to all the army officials who do their work in an excellent way despite the difficult conditions. You can say that. But – the Minister has already said it – the recurring budget cuts since 2008 have left upright blatant bottlenecks, but their cause has been ten or 15 years behind, and then – I would remind you already – the Black-Blue government was responsible. There are two variants of what the Minister could have done. Either he says: Let's just leave it as it is and let's go! or he says: Okay, we take the issue in our hands, we do something, we submit something, we submit a structural package within the framework of legal conditions! And that was presented as the basis for discussions. It has already been said in detail: Organisations are reduced, small barracks closed, the proportion of heavy weapons reduced, logistics and training adapted to current needs – it is a paper for discussion, Mr. Collegue – and the staffing effort reduced. [[Abg. Schönegger: Nothing has yet been decided!]] With the redimensional of the heavy weapons we are, I believe, in the European trend, we can compare ourselves with Switzerland and Germany. But in the way you always report this and simply try to make headlines with it, that's not right. Tag ‘Court Court Report’. Last year we discussed the Court of Auditors report, which also deals with the issue of the German army. And either we take him seriously or not. All measures have been included in this reform package, and one should also try to implement it. I would like to comment on two points: firstly, on foreign affairs. We defined this very clearly last year in the context of the discussion on the security strategy. I can still remember very well, at the time, the ÖVP very strongly demanded that we insist on these 1 100 soldiers abroad, and we have decided on this safety report by a majority, that is, with the votes of the ÖVP, with the voices of the liberals, with the voices of the SPÖ and with the voices of the Stronach team. Make yourself here today and say: Okay, we're reducing foreign operations, because, I have to say, somehow the world isn't quite right. You can't leave that in the room like that. Either we are in favour of what we decided last year and then we are going through it or we are constantly changing our mind! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Vavrik.]] Second point: Domestic tasks. – Yes, it is true, it is in our federal constitution that we can use the Austrian federal army to assist in elementary events. I would remind you, however, that the first to be required in the event of elementary events in the event of disasters is the countries. Voluntary fire brigades are required. These are also the first ones to jump into the break, but the Minister has assured that 12 500 soldiers for civil protection will be provided in the event that the first stage of rural care is no longer sufficient and not available to the safety of the population. We have also joined forces reform. At the time, we were promised €7 million by the Minister of Finance – and I believe that was already one of you. [[towards ÖVP]] [[Abg. Schönegger: Let's talk about Darabos!]] 7 million have been promised at the time – these 7 million € have never arrived at the Federal Army! Which one of you has a car that is older than ten years old? Nobody? We have cars that are 45 years old at the Bundesheer. That would not keep any of us, except, of course, old-timer lovers, yes, that's right. [[Abg. Eßl: There are many!]] But the federal army has so old cars, and this is nothing that has only happened in the last legislative period. You know all this paper, and you also know the content. [[the speaker shall keep an issue of the “official” up to date]] I would just like to mention briefly Mr Wehrsprecher Schönegger, who says that in recent years a wrong decision has taken, namely the purchase of the Eurofighters. [[Abg. Rädler: Is this an attack?]] The foundation stone has been laid for the Eurofighters – we have already heard it today – under Scheibner and Grasser. The required 2 billion were financed exclusively by the Federal Army budget. Mr Strache spoke earlier about “Civildier Darabos” – he was the one who renegotiated 370 million from the Eurofighter business. Where was your consent? [[towards FPÖ]] - She wasn't given! Unfortunately, this money has not been transferred to the military budget, but this money has been given 1 : 1 by the Minister of Finance. And I would just like to say, in fact, with the words of Mr Comenda's Chief of Staff: Soldiers are citizens, and politics has a responsibility to these citizens, and that is, decent equipment! Now think about how much equipment we could have got by 370 million for the soldiers! [[Abg. Kickl: 200 million eats government advertising alone!]] I now expect an shoulder closure to complete this chapter. [[Abg. Kickl: 200 million costs the government alone per year!]] Finally, Mr Kickl! You know very well that the hedgehog was a mascot of the federal army for a very long time, you know. [[Abg. Kickl: Yes, those were the better times!]] Write one You're in the main book: The hedgehog is a stingy animal, don't touch it. I very much expect a close of my shoulder, even with the coalition party, if we negotiate this paper, which is a good basis and goes from the situation, so that the financial resources will then be provided to further expand our federal army in the sense of the structural package and in the sense of the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e5918	Mr Amon has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e5939	Madam President. Thank you, Minister of State for Defence! Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, who today have a special form of presence! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I do not think that the time is right to hold a completely political debate on security policy. It is really sad that the coalition partner is not afraid of it, Mrs Lueger! If you're already quoting our spokesperson, it would be fair to at least do the right thing. For the quote is not that the Eurofighter decision would be a wrong decision, but: The Eurofighter comparison, which was closed, was a mistake! I would highly recommend that you take that back and correct it. I would like to say one thing and also argue why I think the time is completely wrong to change coins in such a polemic way, as some people seem to want today. We have an international picture that is not prepared to make public what we are capable of, what we are unable to do, what is so disastrous. It is literally spoken of as “noise conditions ” in the Federal Army. It is said – I quote – that Austria has never taken its neutrality very seriously, and much more. I must honestly say that the situation we face in the world is whether it concerns Syria or Libya, whether it concerns the Middle East, Iraq, Ukraine, whether it is the terrorist organisation of the Islamic State, that the overall situation is not about talking here in cheap polemics about security policy, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It would be relatively simple, we could also be as polemic as you, Mr. Kickl, Wilhelm Busch is always funny, but we could also act very polemically and say: If your liberties in Carinthia had not put in the hypo, we would have done a lot easier on budget terms. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I can tell you that, but I don't, because the whole story is just too serious for me. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I really want to stress this: There were generations of liberals who, even if they were in opposition, did not act as polemically on security issues as you do. In 1974, National Defence Plan: There were three parties here in the house at the time, you in opposition, you have cooperated, have contributed this. Security Strategy – Today, Mr Kunasek, you say goodbye, and that is the problem. [[Abg. Kunasek: That's what we're talking about!]] You agree and then say goodbye here in the public debate of the things you have decided yourself! This is politics à la FPÖ, and it is not possible, Mr Kunasek! [[Congratulations on ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens.]] [[Abg. Kickl: That's what someone says whose Minister of Finance is on the run! Three already!]] Of course, the budgetary situation – and this is what we need for the current Minister of Defence, I think, not to say – is a very tense one that puts the various units in a difficult situation. But, of course, overall, the tasks have changed. The Federal Minister and the entire Federal Government and we are also working on keeping the concept of defence at the height of time, as has always been the case in Austria since 1945. Empty You provide proof that a serious security policy mistake has occurred in this Republic since 1945! [[Abg. Kunasek: Thank God!]] Yes, thank God! And it was also your ministers who made the right decisions. So let's not talk all bad! It's not as bad as you described it today, ladies and gentlemen. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] I believe it is also a matter of focusing, of course, on assistance issues, in addition to the classic defence tasks, which, however, have changed a lot as well as on the threat scenarios – for example, the word “refugee problem”, “protection of critical infrastructure”. It is about ensuring the preservation of these powers of the Federal Army, ladies and gentlemen, namely with the reforms, that we take this seriously, even if we want to maintain neutrality – and that is what we want together –. And, of course, an important contribution from Austrian neutrality policy has always been international participation in peacekeeping measures. We are also standing there, and I cordially invite the FPÖ to return to what it has decided to do. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is not only about the security of citizens in our country, but also about security for military members. To this end, we need to adapt the law of the service, as we plan to allow us to move from the military into other areas in the future. That's what it's all about! I don't think it's so funny that you're making fun of military music. I think military music belongs to a military. Mr. Federal Minister, we Steirer know that military music for the German army is about the same as the nuclear oil on a Styrian salad: That's just part of it! I think so. And I also believe that we must ensure that the units also have to be basically maintained. In this sense: Let us try together to put the matter in the foreground again in the security debate and a little less the polemics! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e6091	The next item is Mrs Windbüchler-Sushill. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e6113	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr. Minister, congratulations also from my side! Being a father is a wonderful thing. Being a parent is a wonderful thing, but as a politician and as a politician – and I speak from experience as well – the compatibility of family and profession is really something that poses a great challenge. At the same time, however, there are gaps in childcare work, gaps in childcare, especially in this debate. I hope that you will master this well and, at the same time, show the young fathers how important it is to accept a papa month in public service. I would like, Mr Minister, that I mean quite honestly now, that every politician could also use a papa month, not just the staff. That would be a great, good step in the right direction for a family-friendly Austria. Minister! The Austrian federal army and the political and military leaders should actually focus together on what the German army and what Austria can actually do well. This includes primarily sport and the possibility of exercising sports primarily on a professional basis – not a question – but it is also education and school, and above all it is disaster protection in Germany and abroad, civil-military cooperation and, of course, peace missions. [[Abg. Kickl: That's not a sports club!]] The peace missions are those points which also need a close-up in Austria, which are in fact also further developed, without a polemic debate on the issue of foreign operations. International responsibility is something that Austria needs to implement. We have points in many areas where international responsibility is not only shortened, but is actually neglected – that is humanitarian aid and that is development cooperation. At this point there is also a word about all the previous speakers who have taken the refugees as an argument to strengthen the German army: Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Refugees are not a topic to want to equip the German army with more money or to actually protect Austria. Refugees need all our help. Refugees need humanitarian aid. And especially in the light of the disasters, crises and violent conflicts, I find it last-class – this is also addressed to you, Mr Schönegger – that refugees are taken as an argument to strengthen the German army. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We need more money for humanitarian aid on the ground, but of course also in Austria to help refugees, but also other refugees. The international role of Austria is weakened. I don't think it should go further in the basement. That is why, as a successful approach to peace missions, a successful model, a neutral appearance and also a way away from these self-interests is needed. And that can be Austria! When I look at France, when I look at the UK, also with forms of foreign operations and peace missions, I always wonder: Is it also part of the self-interest of the economy and its own state? In fact, Austria can play a good role without self-interest in implementing peace missions, even at an early stage. The protection of the civilian population, the protection of minorities, especially in post-conflict societies, is what Austria can do well; Water treatment, help and support on site after crises, after war, after disasters, after floods, famines et cetera. In any case, this should be based on Austria, and this should also be the clear focus. In this regard, I have to say an open word now: Take the German army here and say that Austria is now no longer certain, Austria no longer has soldiers at its borders and can no longer exercise this defence, I find this to be totally polemic and last-class in this situation. I also think that we need to think again about whether the general obligation of military service is actually justified. We also need to consider whether social security does not have a different picture, without civil service, namely with well-paid voluntary young people who also like to do so, and whether the public survey would not be different in the light of the current discussion.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e6169	Next word: Mr. Dr. Vetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e6190	Say hello to God! Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! High house! In 2013, an Austrian battalion withdrew from Syria because it had not had enough heavy equipment, not enough heavy weapons and no robust mandate. In 2014 a small village in Syria struggles with too little weapons and too little heavy equipment in front of the public. At the same time in 2014, Austria is discussing the disposal of a large part of its heavy equipment and its heavy weapons. Long periods of peace always make careless, approximately according to the motto: If I don't see fire, I don't need a fire brigade. We have many decades of peace behind us for our great happiness. But that does not mean that this will be the case all the time. [[Abg. Rädler: State-bearing!]] Kant once wrote a book about eternal peace, and with us today it is about such that we can believe the dream of eternal free peace. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Of course it's not. In the history of Austria, we always went badly if we were poorly equipped and had no friends. That was – allow me to say that – from 1740 to 1938 always so. Today we have legal conditions: We have the obligation to continue armament with all the means available to us – Constitutional Law! – we have a commitment to comprehensive national defence, and we have a military law that describes the four tasks of the federal army. It remains, first and foremost, the military national defense, which we all hope will never enter – but which we must have, so that it will not enter. These are the protection of democratic institutions, critical infrastructure, civil protection and foreign operations. This is the concept that the law sets out. Think only of protecting the critical infrastructure, how quickly it can be that the capacities of the police are exhausted: If a match between Serbia and Albania is escalated in Serbia, it is that same night the entire standby police in the 16th century. District has to go out to ensure peace and order there, ladies and gentlemen. That's what happened two days ago! [[Abg. Kickl: A bravo for the changes of the past!]] If several attacks occur in different places in Austria, the police's capacities are soon at their end, and we need the mass of the German army, a military component, a federal army component that intervenes in order to stop accidental disasters. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] For foreign use, another word – something that was also mentioned – is: It's this 1 100 men chordd. We are living in a time that is becoming increasingly uncertain. Not showing reliability here and returning to international engagement, that would be the wrong signal right now, ladies and gentlemen. As many know, I am one of those who have also sworn for conscience to defend this country with the weapon in hand. The government cannot now expect the soldiers to defend this republic with mere fists. It shall make available to them all means to carry out their mission. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I also say quite frankly that I believe that the resignation or the demand for the resignation of the Minister is not the right solution. Can anyone imagine that in the present constellation something better, someone better works? [[Abg. Kickl: But he would have to say that loudly once that he can fulfill that!]] It is the responsibility of the entire government that the budget looks the way it looks. Yes, it is the responsibility of the government groups, social democracy and moderate social democracy that the budget looks like it looks, ladies and gentlemen. [[Rejoicing and condolences with the Stronach team as well as with representatives of NEOS]] In order to act responsibly, you have to set priorities so that we do not have to say at some point when the disaster comes: If we had made more money available to this federal army in 2014! – If we do not make these resources available to this Austrian federal army, ladies and gentlemen, then this is actually a breach of the Constitution and, in order to say it a bit pointedly, it is the nonviolent high treason with the means of budget law. Live the Austrian army! Live the Republic of Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e6282	Next word: Mr Mag. Alm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e6335	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! As Mr Schönegger has already mentioned almost correctly, a request will follow from us. Almost right because you thought the people had decided. That's not true. They have questioned the people; for a decision has the You would have asked the simple question of decision: General obligation, yes or no? This question of decision has not, of course, come. Today, we will request that the general obligation not be abolished, but to suspend – this general obligation is actually only an obligation for men – not against the outcome of this popular survey, but within the meaning of its consequence, and this consequence is the deplorable state of the Austrian federal army. While on the one hand the money for the necessary operation is missing, a training infrastructure that produces unfinished trainees is maintained. After six months of ground military service without military exercises, the soldiers do not achieve any ground-use capability. The general military service produces costs, but no longer brings military benefits. The money is missing for the purpose of building up a professional army with a volunteer military. This is, at best, symbolic national defence, which will lead to full loss of defence in the long term. When it comes to it, the army has to withdraw anyway – see Golan, where soldiers from Nepal or the Fiji Islands continue the work of Austrian soldiers. We cannot and do not seem to be able to afford this general obligation. Austrian security has long since ceased to depend on the obligation of military service for men. The main argument, the military defence, has already disappeared in the debate. That is why the defence of general military service always focuses on side-by-side jobs and secondary arguments. We would have the protection of disasters there on the one hand. Civil protection is not a primary task. This can be shared with a professional force and the expansion of the blue light organizations. And on the other hand, there is, of course, civil service. Many have voted in favour of military service in the People's Survey, but civil service is not a task of general military service either. The argument contained in it is that the system then lacks cheap labour. Those who argue in this way, however, commit nothing but a mental human rights violation – very often combined with this bizarre argument that federal army and civil service never hurt anyone and are attributable to personal development. The restriction of personal freedom is, of course, taken into account. [[Abg. Kickl: What about compulsory schooling?]] But civil service is nothing but a duty of employment, and according to Article 4 para. 2 of the European Convention on Human Rights, no one should be forced to do forced or compulsory work. Getting Now You're right to say, in Abs. 3 states that military service and military service are excluded. Only, of course, this paragraph does not apply if the general obligation is maintained only in order to maintain a replacement service. [[Congratulations on Members of the NEOS.]] What happened is that: The obligation on men is maintained because we need and benefit from the possibility of refusing to do so in order to maintain a duty of employment. This is a clear circumvention of this provision from the European Convention on Human Rights. In this way, the civil service is re-commited to work and, accordingly, has been banned in accordance with the ECHR. [[Abg. Kickl: Just no duties! Just no duties!]] This obligation to work would therefore have to be lifted logically after this poll. Anyone who makes civil service an argument for general military service has automatically abolished both. Another point is women. As a further consequence of this survey, we will soon have to debate whether women need not also be taken into account in the context of the general military service. I would like to stress that this is not a call from me, it is not a demand from NEOS, but it is a debate that we must necessarily hold. The situation is uneven, and those who take part in general military service are also committed to extending to women, as is the case in Norway. Whoever does not want a general obligation on women can only be against the obligation to do so. [[Abg. Kickl: But they could easily afford a professional army in Norway!]] - That's all the better! [[Abg. Kickl: Maybe there's something else behind it?]] Summary: The general obligation to do so is therefore unheard-of, it is argued with other tasks, such as civil service, and thus withdraws the justification itself, and we can no longer afford to use the general obligation in the proper sense. So let's put this expensive and useless obligation on men to stop drying out the Austrian federal army! In this sense, we can see our request that I submit: [[Quoted print version removed]] Kill off the iron curtain in your head! Let's make a confession to the reality of the map! Let's focus on a professional army with a voluntary military component, a small deployment-oriented army with modern equipment, and let us solve civil service by voluntary social service! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e6447	Mr Magistrate. The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e6521	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Bösch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e6542	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Alm, what you propose is in honor, but we cannot finance it a hundred times. And I also say quite honestly to you, I am glad that this result has been achieved in the context of this People's Survey and that, at a time when all sense of belonging has been dissolved, at least some of the youth in Austria have at least been able to reach a commitment to the Community and to maintain it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Moser:... pure selfish interests!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vavrik.]] Ladies and gentlemen! No one from the FPÖ, as we have been accused by some speakers, is polemizing today. Neither what you, Mr Schönegger, have accused us of, nor what has been accused of by the SPÖ. I would like to remind you of the statements made by the Federal Minister: Mr. Federal Minister, it was you who said “the barrel of the ground is reached”. They were also the ones who said that if we no longer receive budgetary dispensation for the federal army, then we can no longer fulfil many areas of our tasks. – It was you who said that, and not the FPÖ as an evil opposition party. Today, at this special meeting, we are reversing the concern about the security of the Republic and also the concern for the preservation of Austria's national defence capability. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let me now make the following request on behalf of the FPÖ: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr Federal Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you know this proposal from us. We are in favour of a clear list of priorities: First comes the defence of the state, then the assistance comes in the case of disaster and in the security police sector, and only when we can do that will the foreign operations come. However, this priority line, ladies and gentlemen, has not come to mind our freedom of movement, which is contained in the Constitution, which is in the law of the Wehr. A speaker from the Stronach team just mentioned this. Under Article 79 of the Federal Constitutional Act, the federal government body and its core task are referred to. The core task is “the military state defense”. In the Wehrgesetz § 2 para. 1 lit. a is the Austrian Federal Army's commitment to military national defence – in addition to all other obligations, such as the protection of democratic institutions and the maintenance of internal order and security, disaster aid and foreign operations. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Federal Minister, you do not comply with the Constitution! They do not comply with the laws as you have promised in the hands of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, but they escape in various terms, such as probability of use, “positional selastic”, “reconstruction core”. Mr. Federal Minister, you abolish 106 of 136 artillery guns, you abolish 25 of 59 battle tanks, 23 of 48 mountain tanks, 285 of 350 anti-terrorist weapons, 424 of 606 shells. Mr Federal Minister, this mini-structure will no longer be reconstructed if we need it. Mr. Klug, you would have been invited to intervene within the Federal Government in recent months to increase the amount of money available for the national defence and thus for the security of the Republic. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You have failed to do this, and that is why we will also express our distrust to you today. But, Minister of State, I also want to defend you: I want to defend you against your coalition partner, who plays a double-duty game and who – a colleague of the SPÖ has said so – did this ten years ago when it came to buying the Eurofighters. At that time, it was clearly stated by the ÖVP that there was an extra-budgetary donation of the purchase and operation of the Eurofighters. I recall the Federal Party Minister of the ÖVP and Federal Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel, who, in the 2002 election campaign, even managed to explain that there was a private funding of the Eurofighters. Mr Federal Minister, be on the hat in front of your coalition partner! Find other allies!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e6628	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bösch is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e6760	Next speaker: Mrs Gessl-Ranftl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e6781	Mr President. Lords on the Government Bank! High house! In order to ensure the Federal Government's willingness to work in the coming years, the structural reform 2018 was presented by the Minister of State and by the Head of General Staff. To this end, the federal army must focus on certain areas, and this will have to be saved in other areas due to the lack of budget resources – save because ten to 15 years ago the state of the federal army has been caused. It is extremely simple and cheap today to put the blame on the Minister! I would now like to expressly point out three key points mentioned in the 2018 structural reform. Firstly, focus on the most likely tasks. – Given this, an increased focus on domestic tasks is provided. Which are these? – On the one hand, security police assistants, such as protecting critical infrastructure, on the other hand, are also disaster aid, such as radiation protection operations. In this context, however, I also refer to the new rules for the implementation of training, which by 1. January 2015 will enter into force. The training in the field of disaster relief and cyber-defence is also given greater attention. The second point concerns the reform of the basic defence service, which I believe must pay particular attention to. The reform of the ground defense service is on a good path, of which I was able to personally convince myself at the hunter battalion 18 in St. Michael several times. The training measures will be well accepted by the basic defence workers and will also receive broad support. Thirdly and last point, participation in foreign operations: A year ago, the security strategy was adopted in Parliament – and this has already been mentioned several times today. In this, Austria explicitly acknowledges its foreign operations, with the concrete number of 1 100 soldiers. I consider the participation of Austria in international peacekeeping measures to be important, but also for the right and also for our own interest. I am still in favour; I also assume that those parties who have agreed to this security strategy will remain here today and will not fall by the wayside. For threats of the future, you have to equip yourself differently than with tanks and with heavy guns. In concrete terms, the upgrading of the hunter battalion, the conversion of the tank battalion 33 into a hunter battalion, the specialization of ABC defense workers, and the preservation and specialization of pioneer battalions, strengthening of the militia, especially for the protection of critical infrastructure. This also requires additional resources. The air forces, first and foremost the Saab-105 aircraft and the helicopters, must be renewed. Financial commitments shall be subject to mandatory compliance: You can't buy interceptors, but the purchase costs ultimately didn't pay off to the defence resort! The €30 million promised to the team for additional money for the reform of the basic defence service is still painfully missing. This is why, in particular, the Minister of Finance is called upon to ensure that, from 2016 onwards, the department of defence will receive additional resources to make the urgent investments and to cope with the modernisation of the force. Finally, I would like to address staff costs. There is a need for action in this area: This should have been started 15 years ago – it was already pointed out in 2001. Depending on the calculation, the cost to the staff, and we all know this, up to 70 percent of the budget, tends to rise. The force is aged and too expensive; a rejuvenation of the force is urgently necessary for further operational capacity. Here you will surely find a socially acceptable solution. And finally to you, Mr. Kickl: Faith You me, you don't solve any problems with poems, with polemics and with populism. That's too little.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e6836	Next, Mrs Mag. Steinacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e6859	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Appreciate fellow citizens! ‘Without security is not freedom’. – Wilhelm von Humboldt, a major German theorist, said that security and freedom are anything but contradictions. Without security, freedom is nothing because it would mean a life in fear. Security is a basic need for every person. Especially through the current crisis heatherd – many of you have addressed this in your speeches today – we become aware of this in a dramatic way. According to our constitution, the German army is responsible for the defence of the military state. At the same time, the Federal Army is always ready to provide assistance in the event of disasters, and in addition it has the task of securing our constitutional and democratic institutions and the freedoms of the inhabitants. So this means that our soldiers in serious cases also guarantee a functioning rule of law. Only in this way can we as citizens exercise our rights of freedom of expression, but also freedom of assembly, for example. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice.]] The Federal Army, together with the police, protects the critical infrastructure in a serious case. You know what this means: These are, for example, the energy plants, the water infrastructure and communications facilities. – This is the state defense in the 21st century. ==References== For all these reasons, it is extremely important for me, as a judicial speaker of the ÖVP, but also as a citizen of this country, that we have our federal army. I am a great supporter of this federal army! I thank all the young men and women who are willing to take up the service in the federal army and are willing to defend us and our country with weapons. Because in the event of a crisis, this also means that they are willing to spend their lives on it. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is also very important to me in this context to say that it is not only the soldiers who choose to take up military service in this situation, but also the families – the parents, the grandparents, the sisters, the brothers – who support them in making this decision. ==References====External links== January 2013 has produced a clear result: 60 percent were for the maintenance of military service. This is a citizen's obligation to do so. At the same time, the Austrians have become known as the German army, which is established as a military army in accordance with the Constitution. The Security Strategy has been adopted. She says – that's what everyone can read, and whoever thinks something else today doesn't read it – what the challenges of the 21st century are. ==References====External links== This is based on the sub-strategy for defence policy. The People's Survey has also given a clear mandate as to the training of our recruits: Every soldier should know what he has to do and why he has to do it. Attracting the ground defense service is a command of the hour. The recruits and the soldiers should come out with additional education and training, with additional knowledge from that time. The working group on the reform of the military service has been called up, and the tasks are diverse: from the modernisation of training to the improvement of the implementation of the military system and a number of other innovations, especially – very important! – in the field of integration. Ladies and gentlemen, this military report will be evaluated at the end of this year. That is, until there are three months left, and then there are new insights. I can't live up to the presence of NEOS when they say that recruitment and the military situation should be different. – The convocations become less due to the low birth rate anyway. The measures you propose to reduce would mean arbitrariness – saying: Weir justice contradicts. An important goal is to achieve the zero deficit by 2016 – difficult enough in these challenging times. They all know the drama of all the needs that also give us the bad economic situation on this point. The purpose of this zero deficit is to create new scopes for investment through the removal of new debts, and the German army, as many have said in its speeches, will urgently need these investments. There will therefore be structural adjustments, and jobs will also change accordingly. I would like to ask the ladies and gentlemen who are working in this area to take advantage of opportunities, to switch to other sites, if they could also do meaningful work there and want to develop themselves. We need the reforms. In the private sector, we have many best-practice examples of how change management is implemented perfectly. The objectives are defined by the Austrian Constitution and by the security strategy, which is now to build on the substrategy with its defence policy management. This will lead us to implement these objectives accordingly. A key to military reform is the motivation of the soldiers. We want reforms with the aim of saying that every recruit, every recruit in the convocation, in the service and during the eviction: I'm proud to belong to this army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e6947	Next word: Member of the Commission. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e6969	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I think those who now listen to what the representatives of the government parties or the FPÖ give of themselves, who doubt the basic accounting methods. One and one is known to be two and not four and not six. If I are to achieve the zero deficit in the budget, Mrs Colleague, at the same time invest in education and so on, take care of care cases, provide sufficient funding in school policy, and then meet the changed requirements in international security policy, yes, then just not everything goes out! That's really a problem! It doesn't make sense to lie in the bag there, and I'm really strongly committed to looking honestly at the problems. Mr Minister, you could be very, very honest and say that less in the federal army is often more quality in the central tasks. You mentioned here the security strategy, which we should focus on, only: That's what I've heard for over ten years now! The security strategy is already the fifth edition of the proposal of the Federal Hero Reform Commission from the Zilk era. In the majority of the ministers of defence back then, the basic problem, which was to be dealt with at the time, has repeatedly been put aside, and that is the right to serve. The basic problem is number two, that we have a military structure that meets the requirements of the 21st century. ==References====External links== You yourself have listed in your speech today what we no longer need because of the Central European constellation. Only: This means that your predecessors have failed to take the consequences or to take the necessary measures. And you're falling on your head now. You are actually the varnished, so to speak, and so you have my understanding. Only: But what I demand of you is a certain honesty that you say: Yes, we cannot afford all of this at the same time, so we will concentrate – and I am delighted at what Mr Pendl has been trying to put forward here in such a verbal way, in the whole size of his stature and the extent of his voice, saying: We are meeting the Court's proposals. – on the fulfilment of critical approaches, on the proposals of the Court of Auditors! I should like to hear this, because I am very busy with the Court of Auditors' agendas and with the control of the use of the means of taxation in terms of economy, effectiveness and efficiency. In this context, I would like to make a small contribution, Mr Minister, namely: The Court of Auditors has often proposed closing the military hospitals. It is not clear that we have extra army hospitals, where the specific case numbers are extremely low and where the doctors no longer have the necessary skill and know-how of constant practice. The Court of Auditors concluded as follows: Close the army hospitals! The mayor of Vienna took place on 27 July. January 2014, Mr. Minister, proposed that you sell the army hospital in Vienna, and said that it guarantees enough places in the public hospitals of the city and ensures that the areas of this army hospital are then used for social housing. Minister! That would be a win-win project. Only: You have to do it! I therefore make the following request from the Greens: [[Quoted print version removed]] Let us try to implement these Court of Auditors' recommendations step by step! Finally, Mr Minister, another recommendation: It really makes a bad picture and no slim foot and no military boots at all if you generously advertise in free newspapers in the face of the budget crisis. This may serve your image, but the thing is not!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7035	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Moser is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7088	Next speaker: Mrs Dr Lintl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7109	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is committed to the ever-increasing neutrality. According to the Federal Constitution, the military state defense is the federal army. Our country is quite clear with arms, and we are calling for sufficient budgeting to do so immediately. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] If we wonder when Austria's sovereignty has been threatened since the conclusion of the State Treaty, we remember the Hungarian crisis in 1956, the Czech crisis in 1968 and also the Yugoslavian war in 1991, in which Yugoslavian MiG 21 is donated over the Austrian airspace at an oversonic speed, over Graz. At the time, our federal army also had a high acceptance of the population. All were glad that well-trained soldiers defended our borders with a decent device. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Even today, no one can guarantee that there will not be military conflicts in our geographical neighborhood again. Therefore, the basis, knowledge and technology for military action must be maintained, for if Austria is to have insufficient national defence, either neighbouring countries should take over parts of the tasks, or Austria could try to join NATO. However, this would mean that the costs would have to be borne by Austrian taxpayers. In any case, it would be a limitation of sovereignty and would result in the loss of constant neutrality. And we certainly don't want that! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The military must be able to fulfil its constitutional tasks and adapt to the current threat situation. This threat has changed recently, as the Minister has said earlier. Terrorist organisations have already threatened with attacks in Europe. In Austria, therefore, we must be prepared to protect critical infrastructure, namely energy supply, electricity and gas lines, transport, logistics and health facilities. airspace surveillance must be ensured. And the defense of possible cyber attacks becomes more important daily. Minister, the caputt saving of the federal army is unconstitutional! In addition to military national defence, the German army is responsible for maintaining the order and internal security and for protecting the constitutional institutions. And this protection must be ensured! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7184	The next item is the speech by Mr Pock. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7206	Mr President. Estimated Federal Minister! Estimated State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! Before I go into the actual debate, I would like to reply to the liberals who have spoken to the honourable Member. All blamed the NEOS for abolishing the military obligation that they were, so to speak, an enemy of duty. No, no, no, What we have in response to this is our own responsibility. We assume that if we were to suspend a compulsory duty and put a voluntary commitment in place, we would drive just as well or even much better. [[Abg. Kickl: In education, too?]] I'll hold on to this. The liberals do not distinguish between national defence and education policy. This mistake doesn't happen to us! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Kickl.]] In my contribution to the debate, I would like to begin with a quote which came from among the groups represented here in 1998, namely: “It is a decision of the Austrians whether we abolish neutrality or not. We are in favour of abolishing them.” – Quotes. Who could have said that? – This was said by a certain Ewald Stadler of the Freedom Party on the 18th. ==References====External links== A meeting of the XX. GP. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] This is, in any case, a very strong indication of how the Freedom Party is directed according to the mood and, from one day to the other, also changes its attitude. [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] I would now like to address the issue of neutrality. I think we cannot discuss defence policy separately from neutrality, and there we still have room for further discussion. To date, Austria has been pressing for an open discussion of its security policy after 1989 and since EU accession. The current debate on a common European security and defence policy must therefore be used to define the security objectives of the Republic without populist suffrages on the basis of the EU framework of the Common Security and Defence Policy. First of all, the contradiction between the formal maintenance of neutrality and the common European security and defence policy should be solved, second, the recognition of the added value of the security policy of the common European security and defence policy should also help to break through in Austria and third, the political and military consequences thereof. We cannot have a debate on defence policy if we simply do not think about the European framework. The government, and in particular Federal Minister Klug, have not yet managed to present the partial strategy for the defence of the state. Especially the recent operations in Ukraine, Syria and Turkey again show the need for a common European defence policy and a long-term defence strategy. I would remind you that it is also some of the external borders of the European Union and that we cannot ignore this framework. The question that now arises is that – and I come to talk about neutrality –: Is a common European defence policy compatible with ever-increasing neutrality? The following question is therefore: What does the neutrality of Austria mean? Austria committed itself under international law to non-participation in wars, to alliance and support pointlessness and to preventing its own territory from being used by one war leader to the detriment of another. This anti-dumping duty, in turn, requires armed neutrality. In this discussion, however, attention should be paid in particular to the expression “everlasting, ” which is not to be understood as“ eternal, ” but as “basic”. “Nevertheless” is the opposite of “ad hoc”, as we have often experienced in history. Ad hoc neutrality refers to a certain military action in which a state declared itself neutral. However, the accession to the European Union in 1995, with no reservations of neutrality, the adoption of Petersberg's tasks – humanitarian tasks, rescue missions, peacekeeping tasks and fighting efforts in crisis management, including peace-making measures – has been largely suppressed by the Lisbon Treaty and the active role of Austria in the area of common European security and defence policy. Furthermore, since 2012, Austria has been actively participating in the fast-moving multinational confederations, the so-called EU Battlegroups, which, in the event of need, can also carry out operations outside Europe within 10 days of a decision by the Council of the European Union to intervene in the period from 30 to 120 days. Austria already played the logistical leadership role in 2012 and will continue to do so within the framework of the Battlegroup in the second half of 2016. Also within the scope of NATO-led operations, Austria is part of the operations with combat associations. In the end, all these measures do not reflect the character of an ever-increasing neutral state and lead to a massive suppression of the existing neutrality law. Austria is de facto in the status of a militaryly allied country. And I think that too must be taken into account in the discussion: not only where we should be from the Constitution, but also where we are de facto today. However, we must pay attention to one thing: No matter how we may see Austrian neutrality, it can also be a tool that we need in the context of European foreign policy. In particular, it can help us to play a role in conflicts, turning Austria into what we have already been, a neutral mediator in the face of major crises. This kind of neutrality, which we use to create peace, and which we pursue embedded in a European foreign and security policy, can therefore also be described as a solidarity neutrality and is a further development of the status quo. The word ‘solidarian’ refers in particular to the integration into European defence and security policy. Austrian foreign policy is trying to resolve the existing contradiction between the legal and the actual situation with the position, the neutrality of Austria is only valid outside the European Union. But international neutrality does not allow exceptions of a temporal or territorial nature, nor can it be reduced to certain causes of conflict. We therefore believe that Austria should commit itself to an active and enhanced participation within the common European security and defence policy and draw the necessary consequences from it. Austria's security is now based on a common European security and defence policy, which is why Austria must contribute in solidarity to the extent of its load capacity. In this respect, the Austrian population needs a comprehensive and, above all, honest information about the repression and the changed status of Austria's neutrality in many sub-areas. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7274	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Fuchs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7296	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! High house! Values Advisors! “Why is this reform supposed to work?” asked the Minister of Defence on page 34 of the structural package, and also provided the answer – I quote –: “The measures presented are a necessary adjustment of the organisation to the missing budget.” There seems to have been some confusion in the structural package. The organization of the Austrian federal army is not to be adapted to the budget, but only to the federal constitution, where Austria confesses itself in Article 9a B-VG for comprehensive national defence. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] The order of the Austrian federal army is set out in Article 79 B-VG. Abs. 1 is to be read as follows: "The federal government is responsible for the military state defense. It must be set up according to the principles of a military system.” – point. The military state defense is and remains the core task of the Austrian federal army. Regrettably, the term “military defence” does not occur once in the Minister’s structural package, although the German army actually has the constitutional mandate to do so. Despite the constitutional mission of "military state defense", robust weapons holes are to be reduced to a "reconstruction core" according to this structural package, with the reconstruction time corresponding to the respective warning times according to this concept. Constitutional protection sees a threat of attack in Austria. It is powerful in Ukraine and at the Turkish border – and the incredible thing about it, Minister of State: All of this happens without warning, on which your reconstruction concept builds. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The US has a variety of intelligence services. These have failed both at 9/11 and at the Ukraine crisis and in the threat of the IS. And you, Mr. Defence Minister, do you seriously believe that your location centre, your calculation models, or your anticipation mechanisms can foresee the necessary warning times? Is it really a political responsibility to build military defence on a reconstruction concept with warning times? - No, it's non-state-politically responsible. On the basis of the Austrian Security Strategy, the right procedure would be to draw up the sub-strategy “defense policy”, which will then focus on the structure and budget. Structure follows strategy – this would be a state-politically responsible process. The population has a right to security, which is a core task of the state. I should therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Finally, I should like to quote the President of the Federal Republic of Germany: “It follows from the fact that the priority of politics in the field of national defence is enshrined in the Austrian federal constitution that politics also has to bear the responsibility for the federal army’s financial resources.” Be aware of this responsibility and equip the federal army with the appropriate means, instead of saving it to death!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7397	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Fuchs is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7480	Next speaker: Mr Wenninger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7502	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Minister! I have prepared a speech about the future of the Austrian federal army, but in view of the course of today's special meeting, I have to address some of the notes I made in the speeches of the liberals, especially those of Mr. Klubobmann's Strache. I think it's very interesting not only to take away one's wall of words, but also to try to go into the contents. He tried very loud with a few smeary smears to brilliance. Then he disappeared, running through the High House, can be photographed with presenters who are certainly not there voluntarily. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] In this sense it may be a very good PR-gag, but a serious parliamentary debate about the future of the Austrian federal army I imagine differently. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Three points: Mr. Klubobmann Strache regrets that only 0.55 percent of GDP is currently available as a budget for the Austrian federal army and says that in better times it was 0.75% of the gross domestic product. – That’s a slanting argumentation. That would be to say, the more economically successful a state, the more wealthy a society, the more it must be spent on military defence. [[Abg. I'm sure!]] And you say, sure. The exact opposite is the case! Economic growth and social cohesion are the best guarantee of security and stability. It cannot be that, if economic growth increases, defence expenditure must be higher. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] I cannot follow this argument at Weitem, Mr Klubobmann Strache! [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: That's where you completely failed social policy!]] Mr. Strache, when you compare wages, incomes and pensions with military expenditure, you can see your social understanding. That's really a slanting position. Secondly, to Liechtenstein. Do we want to discuss the military defence of Liechtenstein? I have been reading from you for days that Liechtenstein has more tanks than Austria. This can, of course, be good for the uninformed newspaper reader. Do you know how many tanks Liechtenstein has? [[Abg. Wheeler: None at all!]] Mr. Klubobmann Strache, how many tanks does Liechtenstein have? [[Abg. Bitch: Soon more than we do!]] Not one! There is no military in Liechtenstein! And you make yourself here and say Liechtenstein has more tanks than Austria. [[Abg. Go against zero!]] I must not use the word “loyal” because otherwise I have to fear a call for order. But you might need to know that Johann Prince of Liechtenstein, who seems to be your model, left off the entertainment of a military quota in 1968, as he formulated it. [[Abg. Street: Who defends Liechtenstein?]] – Switzerland! [[Abg. Street: Switzerland, and they have 125 tanks!]] However, they claim that Liechtenstein has more tanks than Austria. This is exactly the same dirt as you are not willing to admit to the purchase of the Eurofighters. Do you have Courage, Mr Klubobmann Strache, come out, say we need a reform, there are problems! We were in the government, Mr Grasser, a part of the FPÖ, but also of Mr Scheibner and other liberals, and we bought the interception hunters, the Eurofighters, against which social democracy protested at the time. We still have this decision today. From this point of view, we can discuss further reforms together. But what are we discussing? – We talk a lot about military music. That must not be true. That is why we also have a word on Mr Pilz. So I'm really not in favour of the national leaders buying subsidies from the military music chapels, because that's exactly the wrong way. The state defense is a federal competence. We do not need nine land defenses, but rather a powerful, well-trained, highly motivated force. In order not only to criticise Mr Strache, but also to draw attention to the media, because today a great deal has already been said about the Court of Auditors' proposals. I am also seeking the Austrian media to take this issue more seriously. I would therefore like to quote from a daily newspaper. On page 2 in the political commentary and editorial, reforms are requested, and in the local section there will be discussions about the reform in the Austrian German army. And there's a Trafican who says – I quote –: “I’ve hung up a new cigarette machine in the barracks, even in the trafic come regular soldiers.” That cannot be the reason, neither economic policy nor regional policy, to maintain obsolete structures! ==References== October the owner of the Brooklyn discotheque said: “We will feel the lack of the soldiers”. Ladies and gentlemen! It is a great challenge not only to maintain, but also to improve, the structure of the Austrian federal army with the existing financial resources. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] But that's what I'm expecting. I know the spokesman of the Freedom Party very well. Mr Kunasek is really trying to work constructively in the Defence Committee. [[Abg. Strache: I hope you take a lot with you today!]] Mr Kunasek, let's leave what was today! We continue to be constructive so that the Austrian federal army has a good future. Today's special meeting was a piper for the liberals to stay in the military jargon. I wish you, Mr Minister, a peaceful future for your daughter and for all of us.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7696	Mr Ertlschweiger spoke next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7717	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators! Much has been said today, one bit populist, the other less populist. The fact is that we should look at the whole thing a bit differentiated and in this hall no one will deny that the Austrian federal army is not on the floor, but is already bedridden for a long time. That's a fact. The condition worsens from day to day. For years the existing system has been financially starved and eroded. The soldiers are rightly frustrated. They lack the perspective, they lack the hope of an improvement. Why? – Because for years they have always heard of politics the same thing: Yes, we want a strong federal army, we want a powerful army!, but the means for that do not exist. Since the end of the 1990s, a “reform” has been hunting for the other, which is probably related to the fact that three colours in this time held the responsibility for the ministry. And no reform, ladies and gentlemen, has ever been brought to an end, not even the federal reform in 2010, which was adopted at the time in an all-party consensus. The tasks of the Federal Government – they have often been quoted: these are military national defence, assistance and foreign intervention – now cost money. This must also be worth the Austrians and politics. At the moment, the army budget amounts to just under €2 billion. Two-thirds of this budget is the cost of personnel alone. The rest is spent on operating costs and on investments. You can imagine what remains for the de facto force – that is, almost nothing at all. The reality is that the federal army has entered a minimum of €200 million per year and is de facto pleading. Without countermeasures, the resort will cumulate a debt mountain of €800 million by 2018. And this structural reform package by Mr. Klug, the Federal Minister, which is nothing but a pure savings package – you should be so honest – does not by chance bring exactly this €200 million through cuts and sales. But the problem is not solved – on the contrary. The problem is, Defence Minister Klug is picking up the horse from behind. And without knowing what concrete tasks the German army is supposed to perform in the future, existing structures are destroyed and the sale of the army is initiated. That's sad. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] This sale, ladies and gentlemen, takes place at a time when there is a war in front of Austria's doorstep – Ukraine has been pointed out many times today – and it is crisisd around the globe as it has not been for a long time. For now, Austria is ruining its army! Is this really a sustainable and forward-looking security concept? - I say, no. [[Abg. Kickl: The Jarolim is all that meats!]] I feel it is rather irresponsible to put the security of our country and its people at risk so negligently. Instead of complying with applicable law, Austria's defence capacity is increasingly being reduced and even the consideration is being made of outsourcing airspace surveillance to Hungary! Please, what an absurd proposal!Unknown term type: "%s".? For this reason, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! What we need here and today is a very clear and clear commitment to the Austrian federal army and to its soldiers. Instead of saving our army to death, priorities must finally be set and the budget increased to at least 1 percent of GDP. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] This demand is not new, it has already been stated in the concept paper “Bundesheer 2010” – a reform that was then the best prepared and best placed in the history of the army. We don't have to reinvent the wheel, ladies and gentlemen. We only have to act responsibly. If the Federal Government is to fulfil its tasks as laid down in the Constitution, it will need the appropriate resources. I'm sorry, but [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Austria has never taken as many taxes as it is now. Our federal army does not deserve an exceptionally courageous policy. It deserves only one policy that adheres to the laws. As a citizen, this can be expected in a developed democracy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7806	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ertlschweiger is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7885	Second word: Mr Mag. Vavrik. His remaining speaking time in this debate is 2 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7906	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! First of all, I would like to quote a former Minister of Defence, namely: “When I break up a staff, people are still there – only then are they working in jobs where you keep them because you have to do anything but no longer in real function. – Here we are faced with demands that we cannot deal with, because the current pension rules do not allow this.” Therefore, “a pension right different from the Orthodox official regimes must be solved.” This is “thematic number one that we have to deal with – otherwise everything else is a speech.” Who's that from? Perhaps the “primary stones ” know: Mr. Cap? No, you don't know? – This was said by Minister of Defense Prader in 1970. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Okay, then we were all on average eight years old. The basic problem, ladies and gentlemen, is the Pragmatization logic of the 1970s, when the Federal Government wanted to put every effort into it, with a regular rise. This is absurd in the case of normal ministries, but the German army is leading to a “armee of generals”, as the “Neue Zürcher Zeitung” recently noted.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7940	Mr President, as far as I know, you also want to put forward a motion for a resolution. You've got 40 seconds left.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7955	Later, we are still facing the same problem. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, not to let the government parties pass another 40 years before any change is made to these antique regulations. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8021	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Vavrik is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8098	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Hauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8119	Mr President. Mr. Minister! One thing is clear after the end of this debate: The only party behind the Austrian federal army is the Freedom Party. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You leave the German army in the lurch by ÖVP and SPÖ, you abandon the Austrian population and you above all also abandon the rural area! I would never want to hear from the EIA again that it is strong for rural areas. These are Sunday speeches, and that's all right. That's all there is to it. It's a shame what you're doing with the Austrian federal army. As many previous speakers here, as you have said, Mr Pendl, about Polemik, I must say: Unfortunately, God's situation in the Austrian federal army is much more acute and even more embarrassing than it has been pronounced today and here. The situation in East Tyrol, for example, concerns: Not only that the Franz-Joseph-Kaserne is being locked up and the best-appointed hunter's help is transferred to the Haspinger-Kaserne, but I can give you another example, Minister: We're always talking about attracting the federal army. The basic defenses are supposed to leave the army motivated. They should spend their time with the federal army meaningfully, and they should also have 30 hours in addition to the opportunity to engage in sports activities. But what does the situation really look like? Now in the Haspinger-Kaserne there is also the possibility to do this 30 hours sporting activity, there is a power chamber. But for the equipment in the power chamber the weights are missing! Mr Minister, what is this sum that is necessary to obtain these heels? That's about saying and writing 682 €! The Austrian Federal Army is not even able to raise this €682 to motivate the recruits, the federal army officials, their free time, their time at He's making sense to spend army. It has to be collected so that these heels can be delivered. It's really a shame, this situation! I can also tell you: If even the light bulbs in the Haspinger-Kaserne have to be bought privately, because there is not even money for that, we know how the financial situation is with the Austrian federal army. [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] No polemics were operated here. Become with Den-head-in-the-sand-sockets Don't solve the problem. And I hope that the colleagues in the Austrian Federal Army, although de-motivated by the leadership on a daily basis, will continue to be operational and will also actively assist the population in various disasters.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8188	The next item is the speech by Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8210	Minister! Heartfelt congratulation for birth Your daughter! Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciated spectators on the gallery and on the televisions! Mr Minister, allow me, in advance, a comparison to your answer to the urgent question today. You have said that we can save money and the federal army can become more efficient. This reminds me a little of some visits at home at the farm of so-called experts who have said: Leo, give the cows less food, and they'll give more milk! - Well, that doesn't work, I can say that from practice. I may perhaps mention – because Mr Weninger has talked about side-by-side issues and after enough of the German army's actual purpose has already been recognized and presented – a very important incident, namely the bubble music. Since I myself was 25 years active musicians, I can confirm what quality comes from military music, both to chapel masters who conduct the most high-quality chapels voluntarily outside, as well as to various sentence leaders on the various registers. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The same applies, of course, to the HSV, the Heeressportverein. There are great international and national successes in different sports, because there is best work done there. [[New condolences with the Stronach team.]] We should not take this as a minor side-by-side, but I believe that these are essential additional benefits. I was surprised at the discussion in the “In the Center” program, when an experienced politician from the People’s Party said that we really don’t need the German army any more, because the borders are moving ever further away. This may be true, but the crisis fires are getting closer and closer. And what the population needs is protection and security, ladies and gentlemen, but also regional security, disaster use. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Everyone who says we don't need a federal army, I have to escape: In the first flood – and unfortunately we have had many floods – the demand for fire brigade and federal army comes. And what is done there, also by the voluntary fire brigades in excellent cooperation with the German army, is really excellent and outstanding. [[New condolences with the Stronach team.]] Minister! Even in floods and droughts, in avalanches – a lot could be mentioned here –: Let us give the federal army the food that it deserves and that it needs to be able to accomplish its purpose properly! Finally, Mr Hauser, I should like to mention one point: The Stronach team is also behind the Austrian German army! And we wish for the future everything good for the security of the population!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8282	Mr Brosz. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8303	Mr President. Federal Minister! I would just like to comment briefly on the NEOS' request for a suspension of the general military obligation. Interesting request, we would essentially share the points. It is also known that the Greens represented a position in the then popular survey, which was almost two years ago – January 2013 – in order to abolish the military obligation which did not prevail in terms of content. It is now possible to discuss this, and it is certainly legitimate to say that the opinion of the population can also be taken up again, that there can also be a change and, above all, that one should continue to maintain one's own position. Only, I find this form to be quite interesting now if one takes the claim for direct democracy seriously. I ask you, if you take it seriously, that there really would be a majority, whether you are now, 21 months after the popular survey – without a re-examination of the population, without a direct democratic element – revising a result of the popular survey by then and saying: The Minister is asked to do the opposite of what came out at the time. Again: It wasn't our point. We would've wanted it to be different. We will continue to discuss this in the future. But I am surprised that with this proposal the NEOS, which otherwise place very much on the involvement of the population, are now going here and saying that they really don't care. It would certainly strengthen democracy. People can't take this very seriously. I can only say: We cannot accept this, even if we largely share it. But again: This is simply not acceptable in the form of democracy policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8353	No one is reported in the word anymore. – I'm just listening: Mr Pock wants to report. - Please. We've got one minute left.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8374	Mr Brosz, I would like to say the right thing here: Of course, we are very much relying on the elements of direct democracy, and we respect people's surveys and even more popular decisions. Only, the survey was misleading. You know that as well as we do. Civil service and the maintenance of civil service were linked to military service, and there was no decision that military service should not be abolished, but there was a decision that civil service should continue to be maintained. In this sense, parties should stand at their values and their convictions and continue to work in this way in Parliament. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8406	Now I can't see a word message anymore. I'll close the debate. We come to the vote, first of all on the motion for a resolution by Mr Klubobmann Strache, colleagues and colleagues on their own military service rights. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign of approval. – This is the minority and thus rejected. The vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Kunasek, Mr Colle-ins and Mr Colle on the failure of confidence in the Federal Minister for Defence and Sport pursuant to Rule 74(l) of the Rules of Procedure. 1 B-VG. In view of the fact that such a decision is taken by the National Council in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this paragraph. I expressly note the presence of half of the Members of Parliament in the terms of the Constitution quoted above. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Alm, ladies and gentlemen, on the suspension of the general obligation to military service. Whoever is here, please give a sign. – This is the minority. This request is also rejected. The vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Bösch, colleagues, on the temporary reduction of foreign operations to priority education. [[Unrest in the meeting room.]] Whoever is here, please give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a voting process, and I ask for the appropriate attention! President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Whoever is here, please give a sign. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. Vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Nachbaur, colleagues, on "Stop of self-security policy – Austria needs a working army!" Whoever is here, please give a sign. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Vavrik, colleagues on the development of a new military service and remuneration right. Whoever is here, please give a sign. – This is the minority. This request is therefore rejected. [[18:26:13]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-16-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8568	I am still announcing that in today's session, the self-employed applications 675/A(E) to 682/A(E) have been tabled. Questions 2737/J to 2765/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council, held on Wednesday, 22. October 2014, 9 a.m., is envisaged, will be convened in writing. I wish you a nice evening! The sitting is closed.
