ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e2555	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I'll open the 48. Meeting of the National Council, which is based on a sufficiently supported request in accordance with § 46 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure. The official protocols of 44 and 45. Meeting of 22. ==References====External links== Meeting of 23. In October 2014, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. Deputies for today's meeting are Becher, Knes, Tür, Auer, Eßl, Höfinger, Jannach, Kassinger, Lausch, Neubauer, Steger, Musiol, Windbüchler-Souschill, Hable, Schellhorn and Strolz. [[12:01:56]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e2589	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[12:02:11]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e2758	According to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure called for urgent consideration of the written question put at the beginning of the sitting by Mr Klubobmann Strache, colleagues and colleagues to the Federal Minister for the Interior concerning ‘security instead of Islamization and asylum chaos’. [[12:02:30]] Request for a brief debate on the response to the question 2118/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e2779	I would also like to say that the request made pursuant to Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure is a short debate on the reply 2118/AB Question 2238/J by Dr Moser, colleagues on the status of proceedings on the subject of property transactions by the Federal Minister for Justice. As this meeting called for urgent debate on a written question, the brief debate will take place following this one. The call for urgent inquiry will take place at 3 p.m. I announce that this session of ORF III will be broadcast live in full length. I would point out that the Transport Committee will immediately continue its meeting at local VIII. The Equal Treatment Committee shall also meet at 12.15 a.m. in local VI. I will interrupt this meeting until 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e2837	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen. Dear Minister! Dear Minister! I'll start the interrupted session again. [[15:01:48]] Request for urgent procedure Mr Heinz-Christian Strache, colleagues, to the Federal Minister for the Interior on “Security instead of Islamization and Asylum Chaos” (2979/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e2873	We come to the urgent debate on the written question 2979/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e3234	I give Mr Klubobmann Strache as the first questioner to justify the request in accordance with § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). You should not exceed 20 minutes of speaking time, Mr. Klubobmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e3256	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen here in the High House and in front of the TV screens! Yes, security is a fundamental right and an important prerequisite for a positive human and social development in our country, and if you look at the security situation in Austria, you have to realize that there are a lot of things in the arrogance and unfortunately we have had to experience God's negative developments in recent years, which sometimes almost cause you to despair. This begins with the failure of asylum policy, which continues with the threat posed by international Islamist terrorism and ultimately continues through the ever-increasing crime which is not being responded to accordingly. Instead of taking the appropriate political steps, God's further savings in the field of executives are unfortunately being made, police departments and guard rooms are closed, and there is a drastic saving program in the Austrian federal army. You just need to look at the criminal statistics to find out that in 2013 there were 546,396 criminal offences that were reported. That's an incredibly high value. If you look at the period of the last ten years, you can say that almost 6 million crimes have been committed in Austria and 40 percent of them have been resolved. This is quite a questionable and negative development. Moreover, the imported crime unfortunately increases God’s unstoppably. Every day, citizens experience how East Bands cannot travel across the border to Austria, because there are no border controls, although we have been calling on the Freedom Party for years to finally re-establish border controls, to put Schengen back and forth time again. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] In the meantime, some national leaders have taken over and demanded our liberal position, but unfortunately God does not implement it. So, of course, organized criminal gangs from Eastern Europe follow their criminal night and daywork – relatively unhindered – and can then leave Austria with their Diebesgut again unhindered. In 2013, of 90,701 foreign suspects, almost half of the perpetrators from eastern neighboring countries were identified. Whoever wants to read this can do so in the reasoning of our urgent request, in which we refer exclusively to facts. That's reality. It is always argued by the left half of the empire that we would be hoisting. – The opposite is the case! We show reality and facts and demand that we respond to them in good time and in good time. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I say that the liars and objectors are actually the true hetzers or those who are responsible for this negative misdevelopment. In addition, the problem of so-called insomnia, which has also been discussed in detail this morning on the radio. Insomnia usually take place on weekends and are also part of organised crime; they are mainly committed by organized East Bands. Mr. Michael Mimra, head of the investigative service at the Vienna State Criminal Office, was also present on 23 March. In October a press conference by the Vienna police documented and pointed out. It's a shame when planning stations are reduced together when police services and Watchrooms are closed and executive officials do not even receive the most necessary personal equipment in order to be able to act efficiently against the crime. Of course, this is always a question of prevention on the one hand, but also the fight against crime on the other and, of course, the investigation of crimes. Unfortunately, there is a great need for action, which we have been pointing out over and over again for years. In addition – unfortunately God’s – the threat posed by new forms of negative developments, namely by radical Islamism. For years, we have been watching unrelentingly, even though observations have been made from the side of the constitutional protection, but also from the military news office for more than 20 years, that sustainable developments are taking place also in Austria, structural developments of radical Islamism have also arrived in Austria. - I'm afraid you've seen it. There are already 21 Salafist private schools and kindergartens in Vienna alone, where radicalization is started among the smallest. Obviously, teaching content is always applied – as we have already shown – to young children are confronted with teaching content that is, so to speak, dealing with the unbelievers who are called “Cafir”. The interpretations of the Qur'an are taught, and the content of the teachings, which according to reason mean that an unbeliever can also be called a Qafir. In a reasonable way, translations are made as – I quote – as follows: “And when you meet those who disbelieve, there is the beating of the necks. Then if you have caused them severe losses, the bonds will be tied." In other passages, it is stated that the unbelievers are cursed. “They will be cursed. Wherever they are found, they are taken and killed mercilessly.” It is called upon to proceed in this way. These are just a few passages, advocating many other translations, meaningful translations from the Qur'an, which appear in teaching contents. If infants in Austria are faced with this, i.e. radicalized by the infant age, we must not be surprised that this can take place in Austria apart from a liberal, Western-Democratic constitution and our Austrian teaching content, that young people and young people are radicalised and that these young people, who are from a small age confronted with such teaching content and, of course, with radical preachers, can also be recruited for the Islamic State for terrorist actions such as those currently in the Middle East, Iraq. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] At last you have to work, because you really have to ask yourself the question: What happened when such developments were allowed, in Vienna, but also in Austria, that one looked away and that it was possible that a religion – and freedom of religion – is important to us for every religion – that at the same time a religion includes politics, social system and the legal system? That's exactly where the cracking point lies, with the radical Islamists, that's exactly what is interwoven. That's where it must be. we are launching a very offensive counter-movement to prevent such abuse in order to prevent such teaching content and such developments in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] At the same time, free copies of Koran translations are already distributed in Vienna and other cities. The Foundation, which is based on this action, is classified as a Salafist Radical Organization according to constitutional protection – I would say that one can also say anti-constitutional organization – an organization that is known for radical Islamic thought and is under observation. Every fifth Islamist who has gone to Syria in the “Holy War” – “Holy War” under quotation marks, for there can be no “Holy War” – has been recruited by this organization. It is really a scandal when such anti-constitution radical Islamists can unhinderedly spread their theses on the open road. I say that such activities by radical anti-constitution Islamists belong to us in Austria, too. One must have the courage to take a clear stand on this. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And so that everyone understands the Qur'an correctly, that is, as the radical Salafists would like, there are to be quite pretty packed books that come to the distribution, so to speak, side-by-side, but very clearly opposed to Christianity and all other religions, clearly and clearly expressing that almost every one of the devils belongs to other religions – and therefore, on the last day, he will also smear in hell if he does not decide quickly for Paradise and the “right way”. In addition, it is pointed out that the Qur'an lifts or withdraws all other doctrines of faith, such as the Torah and the Gospel. The director of the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and Anti-Terrorism did not explain to the media until mid-October that, unfortunately, God also poses a certain risk of attack in Austria. In total, he assumes that there are at least 500 to 1,000 radicalised persons throughout Austria, who are organized and active. Not always – he says – these are related to mosques and prayer houses, but very often mosques and prayer houses are also places of radicalization and recruitment. Of course, self-radicalization also plays a role that ultimately organizes through social networks and online forums. You yourself, Mrs. Innenminister, took part in the National Council meeting on 22 February. On 1 October 2014 the following words were added: “We know that 150 people have gone to war from Austria alone, that 30 have already died, () that 60 people have already returned to Austria – for the IS.” ==References== In October 2014, the Ministry of the Interior issued a terrorist alert to all executive officials, in which the executive officials were warned and asked, not only because of the information, the real circumstances and attacks in Canada and New York, where in both cases one assumes a Islamic background, but also because of other information, which meant that one must pay more attention to the fact that such actions are not excluded even in Austria. The executive officials were stopped to be particularly careful. Only a few days ago, a Turkish-born youth was arrested in Austria, who obviously downloaded a bombing plan from the Internet and began to make certain preparations to plan an attack on a Vienna station. He was arrested and against two other young people. In this context, it will also be determined how to hear. This youth is said to have been promised to receive $25,000 for this action as well as a special position in the “Islamic State, ” says Jihad, for the“ Holy War. ” All this shows that these are very serious threats, but not only since today. Years ago, there was the case of Mahmoud Mohamed, who had planned several attacks in Austria, also concrete way, e.g. in the run-up to the European Football Championship in the fan sectors to deposit explosives. He also planned a shot at my person at the Viktor Adler market, just as he had to read in the published opinion, and also planned attacks against other politicians. He was then arrested, put in court, and also sentenced to a few years in prison, at the time with his wife Mona S., and then released. We know that this gentleman is obviously active in the Islamic State today. There are some pictures with cut-off heads on which it has been made visible in the media landscape. This shows that, unfortunately, God has a great radical potential, which has also recruited itself in Austria and has become active. In the meantime, we have brought it so far that our terrorists even have to warn the schools about jihad as reported in the “Kronen Zeitung” today. They act in schools, that's good – but unfortunately God is a bit too late! It is necessary to start early. If you do not stop teaching, you must not be surprised if this is taking place. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! But what is the case with us in Austria? – There has been a short debate, but unfortunately God has not done anything until now. Instead, the government is still promoting institutions such as the King Abdullah Centre, a centre that has practically diplomatic status, behind which a state, namely Saudi Arabia, is located, in which almost weekly killings, in the sense of the state of the law of the different believers, take place stonings, hand hackings take place. Incredible developments! Nevertheless, a centre in Vienna will be promoted and obviously not the dialogue will be conducted to resolve such human rights violations and finally to deal with each other. Unfortunately, God’s view and vision is different. This must no longer be tolerated in Austria, so that such developments are still supported and there are no consequences that Hasspredigers, who are confronted with a misinterpreted tolerance in Austria for the murder and killing of other believers who call for the “Holy War”, seem to be still supported in their activities. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] That's a wrong way! The radicalization on the Internet, in prayer houses and also in the backyards is of course also being driven forward, because one sees that there is no consequence in Austria that such things are almost automatically granted and legitimated, rather than making an action sharp against such developments. Of course, in order to be able to cope with the situation in the long term, it is necessary to examine whether there are links between the individual asylum seekers and terrorist groups. Of course, that would have to be ruled out. After all, we have cases where asylum seekers from Chechnya in Austria have received an asylum procedure, in the end have even received asylum status and have been used as fighters at the Georgian border and have been shot there. That's when you're really wondering: What happens if people who are supposed to be traumatized and seek help are actually in combat use when they have received asylum status, as fighters in combat suits at the border of Georgia and are shot there? This shows, of course, that there are God’s misdevelopments, that there is abuse. If you look at the decisions of the independent courts of Austria, that of the asylum applications – last year 17 500, we have had more than 25 000 asylum applications per year – 80 per cent are legally rejected, because they are people who do not have the right to asylum, who sometimes give false and misstated information – starting with the name, the country of origin – false persecution stories show that there are often quite different reasons behind it. If we finally stopped this abuse, we would have more room for the really needy and persecuted ones instead of the partially overcrowded refugee camps as in Traiskirchen. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Hagen.]] We liberals are fully committed to freedom of religion and, of course, to the right to asylum for all really vulnerable – this has a huge importance for our democracy and our society – but one has to stop abuse. And that's exactly where you are, that's exactly where you keep trying to create different pictures against the facts. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Hagen.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Freedom of religion, of course, means not only the freedom to confess to a religious community, but also the protection of the individual and the community from religious fanaticism. Religious freedom also means the right to turn away from a religion means that one must be able to criticize this fanaticism. And it is also important to point out that no religion – no religion – can at the same time define itself as politics and the legal system. In the end, abuse begins there, and we are unfortunately experiencing that in some areas of Islamism, because it is not opposed. Another area in the field of asylum, which is important: As I have mentioned, the Traiskirchen reception camp with 1,500 asylum seekers is indeed completely overcrowded – police students have to help some of the people in the care area – and we then experience that asylum seekers are arbitrarily moved by the Federal Minister in accommodations in various communities, without any consultation with the local citizens and with local communities. That is also an unsustainable condition! You can't do that, you have to do it differently. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It has been weathered for years when, in the face of this missing asylum policy, we show abuse and demand that it be stopped; then several good people always come and condemn us for the demand that abuse should be stopped, and accuse us that we are generally opposed to the right to asylum – which is nonsense, but it is always very consciously twisted and not differentiated, just as we do. I say that it is no good to continue to support abuse in the asylum policy. This may serve a certain asylum industry, which is not at all interested in preventing abuse, because, of course, funds and subsidies flow for every care area, there are also places of employment, interpreters and lawyers are needed and, of course, a certain branch of business has also been created. But this is an unreasonable business, which ultimately lives on abuse and, of course, often refuses to stop it. I'm saying we have to realize that there's a lot going wrong. The fact that refugees from Syria now need help is, of course, out of dispute. And that refugees are more and more trying to come to Austria, that is not a question. However, the fact that there have been massive increases from Afghanistan in the last few weeks at the same time shows, in turn, that there is a growing trend in the towing of Afghanistan. per business. If the number of refugees from Afghanistan has increased from 1,842 people last year to 2,818 in this, this indicates that there are very different interests behind it. I say, of course, we have a special responsibility for people who in Syria, Iraq, are faced with murder and killing every day, but, of course, as a European continent, we have a special responsibility for people who cannot find refuge in the region. These are Christians. Christians do not have it easily in the Islamic world, even in the neighbouring countries. They are considered the largest persecuted religious group in this world, with most murdered people. We therefore have a special responsibility, while, of course, the Islamic countries have a special responsibility for Muslim persecuted people who are threatened by the IS with murder and murder. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] This, of course, concerns everyone, whether Alevites, Kurds, Christians, as well as liberal Sunnis and, of course, Shiites. That means you have to see it differentiated. But it is about this responsibility and, as has been said, we need a huge amount of action. I come to the conclusion: The Austrians have a right that we take care of their safety, take these problems seriously and finally make concrete actions so that this radicalization and this threat do not progress.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e3477	To answer the question, Mrs Federal Minister Mag. Mikl's head of speech reported. Mrs Bundesminister, your speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e3498	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens and on the visitor gallery! Security is at the top of our population's list of priorities. We can proudly say that we are one of the safest countries in the world, that nine out of ten Austrians say yes, they feel safe. The police are doing good work here, and this should continue to be the case. That is why it is also our task to constantly respond to the new challenges, from cybercrime to jihadism. We all know that daily we reach images of terror, images of murder and images of the persecution. The threats posed by the terrorists do not stop even before our borders. And it's already been mentioned: Yes, also many Foreign Fighters come from Europe, coming from Austria. The European Union de Kerchove Anti-Terrorist Commissioner estimates that there are about 3 000 Foreign Fighters from Europe. And we also know how many come from Austria. There are 154 people who have moved from Austria to the battle, in which Jihad. 26 have already died, and 64 have already returned from the battle. [[Call the FPÖ:Where are they?]] These 64 people are right in the focus of state protection, in the focus of constitutional protection, because they can all be a ticking time bomb for us. In addition, about 100 investigation procedures have already been initiated against suspected jihadists, and we can say that in the fight against jihadism the police, the justice, the state protection do good work. The fact that police, state protection and justice are doing good work shows the case in St. Pölten last week, where a fourteen-year-old student could be arrested because he is suspected of planning an attack because he has planned an attack in a public place. He has collected a lot of information from the Internet up to bomb construction instructions. We know that even in front of our boys radicalization does not stop, that jihadists, in particular, use social networks and Internet forums intensively to acquire young people. This case clearly shows that the propaganda of the IS terrorists also actually works, that they are mainly using the new media that use online media to motivate young people to fight. We know that just over the Internet, over the live chats, over WhatsApp, messages are sent over 24 hours by the IS terrorists. The target group is mainly young people who are used to dealing with the Internet, from which online media, social media are simply accepted. In particular, young people who are out of perspective who are out of orientation who are in a crisis that does not feel valued, who may feel excluded. Here you try to dock to motivate them to go into jihad, and above all they are precipitated to experience appreciation, recognition and orientation and adventures there – an adventure that can be tedious, where there is usually no return. We must not underestimate the role of those young people who have already gone from Austria to the crisis areas in which jihad is and are then often abused to motivate others to follow this example. Just think of the case of Firas H., whom you all know about the media: a young man who has gone to war from Austria, who has already been wounded in the war of terrorism, and who is now together with his wife is trying to lure other young people, go to Syria and join the jihad there. It even goes so far that travel routes are described and travel tips are given as to how to get there best way. Because of all these findings and because of all these cases, it is quite clear to us that in the fight against jihadism we must also focus on the New Media. It is crucial for us to work with online media to prevent young people from going to war, to stop them from joining the war, to join the jihadists. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] That is why I used the five-country meeting in Zurich a few days ago, where I met with the German, Luxembourg, the Liechtenstein Interior Minister and the Swiss Minister of Interior, where we have devoted ourselves to this issue, where we have also taken the opportunity to inform ourselves at the Google European Centre, where we are looking for cooperation to identify videos of violence, violence propaganda in good time and to take it away from the network. And this is only happening in intensive cooperation with online media, because where violence and terrorism are at stake, freedom of expression finally ceases. We also know, however, that schools in particular have a central role to play in the prevention of radicalisation in our schools, and it is important that radicalisation in schools does not go unnoticed. Therefore, at this point also thanks to all the directors, to all teachers who are very attentive to this, including being in intensive contact with the directors, and it is important that this alarm hit when they notice certain radicalisation trends. So it was in the case of the 14-year-old, who could be arrested in St. Pölten, where the school was above all alarming and the young 14-year-old was also in the focus of state protection for a long time. I also say thank you for having been able to inform 150 directors about jihadism. What are the circumstances that are signs of radicalization? – The following questions need to be addressed in particular: Is there a more intensive use of social media? Is there more absence in class? Is there any change in personality? In such cases, it is about responding properly, taking proper action and, above all, taking advantage of the advice of experts on how to finally deal with such cases. That is why I am also grateful to the Minister of Education, Heinisch-Hosek, for setting up her own hotline for teachers on such issues, thanks also to the Minister of Family, whose department is also preparing the Deradikisation Hotline and which is to be activated over the next few weeks. Prevention is important – not only repression, but above all prevention – and prevention must begin in our kindergartens, at our schools. In this context, I would also like to stress that it is important for young people to understand that it is simply a reality that there are different religions, different nations, and that mutual respect and mutual appreciation are important and necessary in order to make a common relationship possible so that there is no feeding ground for radicalisation. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] When it comes to the fight against IS terrorism, not only are we as a security authority, it is not only the police that is required, but several ministries are required, from the Ministry of Interior to the Ministry of Integration, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Social Affairs to the countries and communities, even to the civil society, where each individual is ultimately required. Especially in recent months, in the past few weeks, we have brought a lot on the way, not only in the operational field, but also in the legislative area, where some legislative instruments are under review and here we are also in the process of decision-making in the next few weeks: from the Terror symbol law to the amendment of the Citizenship Law to the border control law, on the one hand, to protect young people and children, so that they do not leave Austria and join the jihad, on the other hand, these laws should also signal that there is zero tolerance towards those who join jihadism. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is important to me, however, in connection with the whole discussion, to draw a very clear line between the ISIS and Salafism on the one hand and Islam on the other. We all know that terror fighters are primarily not about religion, but about pure violence, brutal violence, and religion is used as a pretext for doing and acting, and Islam is used for mobilization or mobilization. For all of us, the jihadists represent state enemies because they attack our European system of values, our democratic values. Murder, rape, persecution and trafficking in human beings are on the agenda, yes, they are seen as legitimate means and are also used as legitimate means. Here our fundamental democratic rights are being trampled with feet in the truest sense of the word, and it is now also a question of starting a democratic counter-offensive, which must be borne above all by the Muslims and in which Muslims and non-Muslims must strengthen to protect our democratic values. This is about our democratic values, such as equality between men and women, but it is also about the right to withdraw from a religion that it cannot be forced to wear a headscarf, neither from a state nor from a community or from a family that can only be based on voluntaryness, to the full acceptance of all our human rights. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is because, if you want to, every citizen feels obliged to place democratic values on religion. I believe that this is important, because only then can there be a European Islam, an Islam of the European character or an Austrian embossing, with, above all, the Islam law also having a very crucial and essential role to play. We know that most of the Muslims are at these democratic values, that most of the Muslims also want to live together and in peace. It's about all of us confessing to it. Mr Klubobmann Strache said: Hundreds of thousands, yes, millions of people are on the run. Many people flee from these jihadists, and it is our common responsibility to give protection and help to those people who flee from this terror, from this violence. We know that in recent months there have been many who come to us and seek protection and help here. In recent weeks alone, it has been an average of 720 refugees of war who have sought asylum from us every week. Yes, this is certainly a very big challenge: a challenge for the federal states, for the Federal Government, for the municipalities, yes, this is also a great challenge for the civilian population. However, I am also quite clear that all those who need protection and assistance here also want to give protection and help, but it cannot be that ten out of 28 EU Member States handle more than 90 percent of all asylum procedures and provide more than 90 percent of all asylum seekers. At the same time, there cannot be a failure in Europe, which is why it is about introducing a quota at European level in the future, so that each Member State actually fulfils its responsibilities and obligations. [[Accompaniment with ÖVP and SPÖ as well as the abg. Reciprocating.]] I would also like to use this special meeting today to say thank you: the countries, the municipalities, the civilian population, who are above all protecting and helping, with more and more communities opening their doors to our war refugees, even if this is not a simple and not an easy task. I can now come to your questions – 51 of them. I can now begin with the answer to the first two questions, questions 1 and 2, on which the issue of crime is concerned. In this regard, we can say that we are developing downwards, especially in the area of crime, so that the number of crimes has fallen. If the number of crimes was more than 640 000 ten years ago, the number of crimes is now about 540 000. That is, today there are 100 000 crimes less than ten years ago, despite new forms of crime, such as cybercrime. [[Call the FPÖ:Because many already...!]] In this context, I should also like to thank all our police officers for the successful implementation of many measures. I thank all the police for this professional work! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ, as well as by Mr Nachbaur, Mr Meinl-Reisinger and Mr Walter Rosenkranz.]] This successful work requires, of course, cross-border cooperation with the security authorities of our neighbouring countries, especially intensive cooperation with Europol and INTERPOL. On question 3 concerning checks: Yes, controls have been arranged here, especially with regard to the airport, so that passengers from the risk destinations are as timely and complete as possible in the case of arriving flights. Furthermore, in the context of the implementation of the actual border control, particular attention should be paid to passengers where the risk is ultimately derived from certain indicators. There are, of course, also our border controls. This means that there are not only intensive controls at the airport, because we have arranged these controls, which are already under way, but also the long-term border controls. Of course, border control is always in discussion, but we have opted for a much more efficient instrument, namely border controls, because they are much more effective and efficient and because they cannot be calculated by tractors. Of course, all of this is based on analyses, and as a result of these analyses, the enhanced border controls take place, up to controls along the green border. Questions 4 and 5: Since the perpetrators often only stay for a few days in the federal territory, the involvement of the population is quite, very important, because only if we receive information can we respond to it. From here, therefore, also thanks to the civilian population, which always gives us important clues. A comprehensive package of measures has been put in place, including proactive, targeted, time-consuming and effective action packages, and above all implemented. Especially in the area of these measures, we must be extremely flexible because of the fact that criminals are constantly changing their strategies. Questions 6 and 11 are about jihadism. Constitutional protection deals with all those groups which pose a concrete danger to democratic institutions and fundamental values. Criterion is not whether there is an actual or supposed reference to a religion, but whether the person concerned assumes the risk of extremist violence against the state and the population. As mentioned above, a total of around 100 investigation procedures have been initiated or advertisements have been submitted to the Public Prosecutor's Office. I would like to ask you here to understand that I cannot give any further details for police tactics, but I would be pleased to inform you accordingly in the bodies provided for, as in the Committee on the Interior's Subcommittee. [[Abg. Kickl:... covers the speaking time like the ÖVP's election budget!]] Question 7: There's 87 in the number. Questions 8 to 10, if I may sum up: According to my information, 50 Austrians are currently in the fighting area, 64 have already returned according to my information, I have already mentioned that, and 26 have so far died according to our information. [[Call at the FPÖ:Where are they now?]] I have already answered Question No 11 together with Question No 6. Question 12: As a result of the ongoing investigations, the sites to which the measures relate cannot be mentioned. The corresponding places, ladies and gentlemen, are mainly in the urban area, namely in the area of Vienna, Graz and Linz. On the question 13: These are 11 notifications. I can answer the question 14 with “Yes”. Question 15: As mentioned above, all known persons returning from the area of war are, without exception, shown to the public prosecutor's office. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Yes, and then?]] Moreover, as mentioned earlier, amendments to the Citizenship Act and the Border Control Act have already been reviewed, and these will be decided here in the next few weeks. Preventive measures in the area of the interior area have been and will be trained to provide prevention officers for youth work, our State Offices for Constitutional Protection cooperate intensively with the school authorities, and a deradikisation hotline at the Ministry of Family Affairs is under construction. Questions 16 to 20 and 22: With 1. In January 2014, two existing systems – from the asylum information system and the alien information system – as well as other foreign police applications to the IFA system, one of the largest computer projects, IT projects in the history of the interior, and therefore not all of the requested electronic evaluations are still possible. This means that, unfortunately, such statistics, as they are desired, are not yet available at this time. [[Call the FPÖ:... chance!]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Damage!]] Question 21 concerns the recognition of asylum status. In 2012 there were 424 withdrawals, in 2013 there were 381. On the question 23: Today, 2 199 out-of-land shipments were carried out, of which 1 189 were deportations and 1 010 Dublin transfers. There were also 1,800 voluntary trips. Questions 24 and 25 concern the ten suspected jihadists: In the present case, to the extent that it is foreign, the withdrawal procedures have been initiated. However, you know that it is necessary for the judicial authority to conclude a judicial judgment and that there is no such one at present. The question 26 concerns the utilization of the care facilities: For today's day's day, the stockstands are as follows: There are 1,604 persons in the East care centre, in the West 135 care centre, in the North 196 care centre, in the South 64 care centre and in the mid 146 care centre. On questions 27, 48 and 49: Yes, there is the commitment of all federal states to fulfill their quota to 100 percent by the end of January. You know that I have presented here a new concept with an automation – an automation that is designed to ensure that the quota is fulfilled. Further cornerstones of this model are the involvement of the municipalities and, above all, the aim of ensuring rapid procedures. Questions 28 and 29 concern issues of international law: The essential international instruments, the Geneva Convention on Refugees from 1951 and the European Convention on Human Rights, have the status of a constitutional law or a simple law in Austria and are therefore strictly respected in implementation. Both the Geneva Convention on Refugees and the European Convention on Human Rights clearly define which persons are granted protection and protection when there is a need for protection. Thus, these contracts do not apply to persons not in need of protection. Question 30 concerns the obligations of participation: The extended obligation to participate is not intended to restrict the freedom of persons, but is necessary to deal with extensive procedural and administrative organizational steps at the beginning of the asylum and reception process. If the obligation to participate is disregarded and a procedural step is therefore delayed, this may lead to further effects in the procedure. Questions 31 and 32 relating to people who have been diverted during the asylum procedure: In 2013, 3,348 persons were submerged during the asylum process; in 2014, 30. ==References====External links== On question 33: From January to September 2014, there were 7 073 suspect strangers with the status of asylum seekers, which is 3.8 percent of all suspects – I emphasize: Suspicion of action. On question 34: No statistics are available for this purpose. On question 35: The current legal situation allows the recognition of asylum status if the person concerned presents a risk to the security of Austria or if he has been legally sentenced for a particularly serious crime and poses a threat to the Community. Comparable provision is made for the exclusion of the status of a subsidiary protected person. I can answer Question 36 with No. On the question 37: Austria does not currently carry out Dublin transfers to Greece. Dublin transfers to Bulgaria or Italy are made on the basis of an in-depth individual case study and with particular reference to vulnerable groups of persons. On the question 38: Each deportation is due to a case-by-case check and according to legal and factual possibilities. There are currently no deportations to Syria. On questions 39 to 43, these are questions relating to asylum: The existing instruments of EU border and migration management must be applied consistently. FRONTEX and EASO do valuable work in supporting all Member States. Right after the entry into the European Union, the systematic identification and registration of refugees is essential in order to allow those who actually need assistance to do so. Effective application of Dublin/Eurodac in all Member States is essential for the functioning of our common asylum system, that is, urgently necessary. In the interests of living solidarity and responsibility, all EU Member States should also participate in the reception of vulnerable refugees. You know that by Austria we have presented our own programme, our own project “Save Life”, that is, the “Save Lives Project”, at European level, which is about a pan-European resettlement programme. The aim is to ensure that the UNHCR identifies the need for protection directly in third countries and then to divide the need for protection through a quota across Europe, across all Member States, and then to carry out asylum procedures there. This has the advantage that people do not have to leave their lives in the Mediterranean and that, in particular, the slugkers, the towmen of the feeding ground can be removed.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e3751	Mrs Bundesminister, since you have already exceeded the deadline for your speech, I would ask you to answer the last questions briefly.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e3766	We're done right now. Question 44, which concerns a compulsory quota, has already been mentioned. Questions 45 to 47 concern whether we want to hand over competences to the European Union: No, no, no, Question 50 does not cover the implementation of the Ministry of the Interior. And last but not least, the question 51 is about the discussion on a work permit for asylum seekers: As you know, I am always available for an objective discussion on every subject, and I will of course also deal with the study of the social partners, but as an interior minister, I think that a further opening of the labour market for asylum seekers is definitely critical and I am happy to discuss this openly and comprehensively. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] Above all, I see this critically in view of the current tense situation, both in terms of the search for quarters and in terms of the situation on the labour market. As already said, only two countries across Europe already provide more asylum seekers than Austria – Austria is in third place. A further opening of the labour market would lead to an even greater gap in the asylum system across Europe, i.e. this gap would strengthen and the search for accommodation in the federal states would make itself even more intense and difficult. As you know, who is given protection status in Austria – a positive asylum notice – here full access to the labour market, and as you know, there are opportunities for employment even now during the asylum process. This means that there are plenty of opportunities where asylum seekers can be employed, starting from seasonal work, harvest workers to commercial and, of course, business law and, of course, also in the sense of community benefit for each municipality. That is, there are many ways that are not exploited. I see this very critically.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e3838	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, with each club having a total speaking time of 25 minutes. First of all, Mr Kickl has spoken. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e3866	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Let me make a comment in advance on the procedure of the Federal Minister. We are very pleased when questions are answered in detail. It would, however, be a reasonable contribution if you were to cut down accordingly on the introduction. [[Abg. Fekter: Don't stand up! The Minister can answer as she pleases!]] On the other hand, you must also be put to the accusation that you deal with the time budgets in a similar way to the ÖVP in the Federal Party and also in its country group that does with electoral budgets, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] I would like to say a few basic things, because it is typical for the Austrian People's Party to say one thing and do the other, as is the case with the asylum seekers. Access to the labour market is not possible while Mr Mitterlehner negotiates access to the labour market for asylum seekers. That's typical ÖVP: here, to soften one and then do the other outside! – That is unbelievable, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am telling you a few basic things about Islamism. I believe that if Islamism is to be seriously declared the struggle, as the Austrian population expects, as young people in this country expect, and just as Muslims expect, which place great importance on the fact that there is a separation of state and religion, if one wants, then there are, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, but also on the sides of the SPÖ and the Greens, some conditions, some conditions without which this does not happen, and there is already the problem. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] [[Calls at the FPÖ]] This is because the problem is starting for the left and for those who have been docked in the left for a long time – and you are looking at it too, Mr Lopatka. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] Because if you want to, then you have to keep your own values and your own traditions up and running. This is once the very first condition! Then you have to stand by it. Then you need to know where you belong in the case of conflict, and then you need to know what the higher good is in the case of conflict and which it is to be defended. I miss this clarity in your approach to the fight against Islamism! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. Wöger.]] You must not only talk about it, but you must also show a certain vehemence when it comes to living these things. And here too it is missing. For how does it actually look? What does that look like? – Ladies and gentlemen! There they are in a single retreat, the left in this country, in a single retreat. This starts with the Kruzifix debate in schools. It starts with food regulations. It goes everywhere in the direction that the Austrians have adapted in the sense of a naïve interpretation of anti-discrimination. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And so this goes on to court rulings, where the one who has beaten his wife, because he has a fundamentalist background, is granted still milding circumstances. That's what court judgments in Austria look like this year 2014! And there's something going in the wrong direction. Mr Lopatka, today I read in the paper – and you will then be able to explain it to us – that, as you say, the Islamic community has already excited itself about the draft Islam law, which from our point of view goes far too little. But even that's too much. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] Yes, Austria must be aligned by the UN: Dear Austrians, if you lay down in the law that the Sharia is forbidden, then it contradicts human rights! [[Ah-Rufe at the FPÖ.]] That's what the UN tells us to do. Ladies and gentlemen! Something goes completely wrong and in the wrong direction. I miss the call from your side. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you are serious about the fight against Islamism, you must set clear limits, namely that political agitation must not be made under the guise of preaching religious teachings. That's the point! But there are consequences: the withdrawal of citizenship, deportations from me, the prohibition of organisations like this Milli Görüş, or as that means, which are prohibited in Germany, because they are anti-constitutional, but Austria has long discovered as a suitable territory for their activities. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Why are they still there? And why is there no prohibition law for the Islamic state? Why is that not if you do it – especially you on the left! – with the fight against fascism so seriously mean? This too is a form of fascism that must be fought! You can't be content with forbidding a few symbols, but then forbid the whole drive of these people! – That would be a consistent approach! Your Islam law doesn't go far enough. [[Complementary and intermediate calls at the FPÖ.]] And then you must not go here and hide behind false tolerance. This is the very best, the wrong tolerance you preach. What is behind this tolerance, which is constantly preached by the left side? What is it? – Convenience, indifference might be it, perhaps a term of freedom, which one interprets from the arbitrary rather than from the responsibility. It's possible. But it could also have something to do with a certain form of cowardice, and I express it quite openly. I believe that some of the things that come from tolerance are really nothing but cowardice in the fight against threatening phenomena that threaten our rule of law, our human beings and our social image in this country. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I blame you for simply being too cowardly to address these things more offensively. The whole thing, your legal initiatives then result in those we want to slow down still dancing around with our own laws on the nose. In Germany, there is such a case. Now the cabaretist is being sued by the Salafist. This is a typical example of how to turn things around. And you look at it and nod it all off in the sense of a tolerance that I think is far from cowardice. I'm telling you that quite openly. I understand that it is more pleasant to reveal one monument after another and to act morally in the past. This is a relatively simple exercise and also far more harmless than those who are currently threatening this society to offer the forehead and to announce the fight. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You won't win anything with it, ladies and gentlemen, if you make it so easy and titulate the Freedom Party with vocabulary such as Hassprediger, Xenophobic Enemies or Hetzer. Why do I not hear these vocabularys from you in connection with the Muslim brothers, in connection with the Salafists, in connection with “ Millî Görüş”. Why don't I hear anything there? Is this tolerance or is the cowardice, ladies and gentlemen, especially those of the left?
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e4026	Mr Kickl, we agreed that we do not use insulting statements that violate the dignity of the House. Therefore, I would ask you not to use a certain word – I think I do not need to draw your attention to what word I mean. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e4042	In this context too, Madam President, we are quite different. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] There are some questions I still have to ask you, and that is very important to me. Do you not feel – and now I hold the mirror before you – that you are the ones, especially those from the left who permanently torpedo the traditions and values of this country? How, then, do you want those who come to us to be able to demand respect for these values at all? I can't do that! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] How, then, do you want to explain the equal treatment of man and woman, for example, to a person who comes to us from Chechnya, if you yourself have nothing else to do all day but remove the sex question from biology and make it a kind of sociological creed!Unknown term type: "%s".? That's where the chickens laugh, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And how do you - I am coming to the conclusion - explain to someone that values such as democracy, the rule of law, human rights and a legal system are important if you are not allowed to have something like something true, something good, something beautiful or even something absolute, if everything depends only on social circumstances, which means that it is interchangeable, any and any change from anyone? How do you want to do that? – All of this is not going together! These are the fundamental problems you have in the fight against Islamism! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that a security contribution is to equip this country mentally and Ideally. That is a crucial point! I gave you some clues about how this works. This would bring more than a few videos out of the web or put others in and set up a prevention hotline. This is important, but without this foundation I have spoken about, it is worthless and will not take hold of it.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e4114	Mr Klubobmann Mag is next spoken. Arbitrator. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e4135	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Dear Ladies and gentlemen! Before dealing with Mr Kickl's thoughts, I would like to welcome the delegation and the Pensionist and Pensionist Group from Neunkirchen to Parliament first of all. I am pleased that you are attending our debate. [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A second comment. As far as today's subject is concerned, I think it is also necessary that we deal with the question: Why are people fleeing? Why do people have to leave their countries? This does not make these people voluntary and not easy hearts, but under very difficult conditions. The reasons are war, radicalism, persecution, rape, abduction, sale of women on slave markets and all these phenomena, which are now mainly in the Iraqi-Syrian area, which have made many thousands, indeed hundreds of thousands of people, refugees. I am telling you this because last week I was in this region with my colleagues Liesi Pfurtscheller and Berivan Aslan to see the situation on the spot. It is even more shocking – as it shakes one anyway, reading attentive newspapers – to see on the spot what terrible fates these people had to experience. This is, of course, also the effect of the struggles that this “ISIS”, this self-proclaimed “Islamic State”, leads against humanity and against the people there. That's why it's quite clear to me: No to radical Islam, a no to all these effects that happen, but also a clear no to any form of radicalism and to everything where humanity, democracy, human co-operation are so cruelly shamed. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] On the other hand, Austrian society is acting; on the other hand, people are acting in our country. And that is why I am pleased when it comes to “neighbor in need” and other individual aid organizations, including with the support of the Federal Government, help is being given on the ground. There you can see how many people suffer there and are also willing to take up refugees in our country, especially from this region. This is important to me, because I often feel that in the political debate – above all by you – refugees are suspected of being Islamists and would try to put the basic democratic system on the head by terror. [[the speaker points towards the FPÖ bank series]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] On the contrary: These people are running away from terror, and we're – damn it! – committed to helping these people, too, if we are serious about our fight against radical Islamism. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] Now we are listening to this for the second time, and I am afraid that for the third and fourth time, the same topic will also be brought here by you, but I have once – I am solving another problem. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] I have once considered how it looks in this connection with the Austrian Freedom Party, and I have come to believe that your FPÖ-College, the then district deputy from Ottakring, Mr. D’Aron, has rented a mattress camp of refugees by €60 per person – yes, Mr. D’Aron has then been expelled from your party. [[Abg. Bitch: He's been thrown out!]] This is always such an argument: it has been thrown out. 60 € per mattress, please! [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] When all this came up and stood in the newspaper, Mr. D’Aron was thrown out. Have you also cast out your FPÖ colleagues from Heidenreichstein, who housed in his district Jihadist and said: Look, there's always nine or ten Chechens in my house, and maybe there's some jihadists below that, I don't see a problem in that!Unknown term type: "%s".? This is the FPÖ, the business is doing with such people! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] [[Objection to the FPÖ.]] That's what's really behind that! [[Calls and calls between FPÖ and SPÖ MPs.]] [[Call:This is a shame]] As you are so excited by the FPÖ: That's exactly what I find to be so repulsive that you say on the one hand: These are all the criminals who come here! while you have colleagues in your ranks who exploit these people to give them quarter prices, while there are also terrorists and other shelters there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] It's a double-beddedness that can't be tolerated! You just need to look at your connections abroad, for example, who you are dealing with at your so-called international conferences. That's what you're going to say: They forge international alliances with exactly the people who are responsible for the fact that people from these countries have to flee. [[Subsequent calls to the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Street: American senators and congressmen!]] No, I mean, for example, Mr Alexander Dugin, one of the most radical anti-Semitic and neofascist leaders in the Panasian movement, in the so-called Eurasian movement. These are people who put their countries in rubble and ashes and threaten the people of these countries with terror and persecution. And with them you make secret conferences from the FPÖ in Vienna! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] [[Abg. Kickl: What is a SPÖ delegation doing in North Korea?]] If you can't imagine, I brought you a picture. This is your boyfriend, Mr. Dugin, who threatens his people with the gun in his hand! [[The speaker holds a newspaper section in the height]] Stop using these contacts from the FPÖ! Then you can get out here and talk about security! But as long as you're under a ceiling with such people, you don't need to lose a word from the FPÖ about security here in the hall!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e4310	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Lopatka is next spoken. Six minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e4331	Mr Klubobmann Strache, you and your colleague, Kickl, have repeated what you did here 14 days ago. – And that doesn’t make it better. What to do You always? - They're trying to startle fear in our country. [[Abg. Strache: Facts and realities arouse fear!]] - Yes, you do. They are re-emphasizing the situation in the country as bad as it is in the case of Weitem. You only need to read through your request: It is no longer more negative how Austria is presented in this proposal. But when it comes to it, you have never been ready to take on responsibility. And that is the exact opposite of what the Federal Government is doing. Long before It called for an hour to come and today requested this meeting, this Federal Government has acted clearly. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] We had this summit where this close-up of ministers took place. You have previously said of the FPÖ that you expect clarity from the ÖVP. . Now I say something to you, Mr Kickl: Whoever sows hates will reap prison! – Has that not brought the Minister of Justice to the point?- Oh, my God! And today, the Minister of the Interior said: Zero tolerance with the jihadists! Therefore: What clarity do you want? There's no more clarity, I tell you. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Do you know what you are producing? – They produce hatred!]] - No, no! I'm telling you about the FPÖ: The topic you are addressing here is a very serious one – we are well aware of the dangers – but the solution is not easy with God. [[Abg. I hope so.]] The Minister of the Interior Mikl- Leitner is working day and night to solve these refugee flows, which are natural, here in Austria together with the national leaders, together with the local authorities in such a way that it is compatible. [[Abg. Kickl: Maybe also together with the population!]] What are we to do with refugees of war coming to us now that winter is at the door?- Oh, my God! It is our duty to take up these refugees, I tell you! [[Congratulations on ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Down from high Ross!]] Colleagues Arbitrators have already addressed your double-landness, namely here in the country to do business with these poor people, but not only here in the country. Where does a portion of the jihadists come from? Where do many of the refugees come from? - From Chechen. And you from FPÖ know the situation in Chechnya better than we do, because you are sending delegations to the dictator Kadyrow. [[Congratulations on ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens.]] [[Abg. Street: Just like the Federal Republic of Germany!]] Unlike human rights experts, you deny the situation as it is there! President Kadyrow has set up a regime in Chechnya, to which Human Rights Watch says: In Chechnya, torture is widespread and systematic. And “The Mirror” – I suppose that’s also a serious magazine for you – has noted that Kadyrow, quoted with this statement, says of himself that his favorite hobby is “killing devils”. And who does Kadyrow mean by that? - Oppositional. In such circumstances, Austria is forced to give people asylum here. But what's your answer to that? - Look, you're criticizing that again. [[Abg. Strache: The Federal Republic of Germany has not done this for ten years!]] [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] They do not support the Federal Government, but do the opposite: They're sending a high-level delegation. After all, it was your deputy, your “Statthalter” in Vienna, and the foreign spokesman of the FPÖ, who is also sitting here today, who visited Kadyrow. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] On multiple requests from journalists, your deputy could not get through to describe Kadyrow as what he was, namely, a dictator. And according to Kadyrow's homepage, your foreign-political spokesperson even encouraged Kadyrow to cooperate with him, which he would be pleased about. [[Oh, by the greens.]] Do you think that's the answer to the problems we have: to court such dictators? That's exactly the wrong thing! You would insulate Austria in this way from the FPÖ, if you had political responsibility! [[Abg. Street: 5,000 Austrian asylum seekers who are on vacation there!]] Don't you notice that with this agency, you're getting rid of the fact that you could be entrusted with government responsibility? [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] You do the opposite of us being able to take you seriously! The exact opposite you're doing here! [[Congratulations on ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I'll tell you one thing: Yes, the reception of war refugees is a great challenge. Only: We face this challenge! And it is not easy with God to actually join this Islamism in such a way that we can say that these swamps are dried, there is nothing more to follow. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] It's awfully hard. We also need the support – and I also call for it – of the Islamic community, the massive support from this side. [[Abg. Kickl: They have also complained about the Islam law! Interesting!]] – Yes, because you mentioned this earlier: With these laws we make here, we create clear rules. [[Abg. Kickl: Not at all! But not at all!]] – Yes, but of course we create clear rules here. [[Abg. Kickl: You're pretending to be!]] – Yes, you are annoyed that this federal government is so determined and that your shots are really going to go empty. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: You don't believe that yourself!]] The Islamic law, I tell you, is an answer. But what you're doing is anxiety, uncertainty. What problem to solve You with that? - Not one. We are doing everything possible in a rule of law to take up this fight! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[No call at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. That's where you've failed.]] But we have legal boundaries. They often demand something that is not possible in a rule of law in a civilized rule of law. Such measures may: Do it at Kadyrow, but not here in Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of SPÖ and Greens.]] What we would expect from you is that you seriously support the efforts of the Federal Government. [[Abg. Darmann: What efforts?]] – I say this to you: legal efforts, efforts to achieve something across Europe, because we will only be able to solve these problems internationally. The fight against Islamism can only be solved internationally. I know the EU does not exist for you. Everything that is international is bad with you unless it comes from Moscow! I know about you. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I'll tell you: Free Western society must take up this struggle, because there are huge potential threats. I'll give you that. But with the answers you have, with your wrong friends – starting from Kadyrow – we won't solve anything here! [[Abg. Darmann: other states too!]] We, the European Union, must do everything together with the USA. Our Foreign Minister has taken up this struggle at international level and here in the country, the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice. We'll bring in the laws, and then we'll see if you agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e4692	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Korun. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e4727	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear visitors, visitors to the gallery and spectators in front of the screens! Mr Strache has said, among other things, that he is massively opposed to the abuse of religion for political purposes. - Then we agree. [[Abg. Kickl: You didn't understand! You didn't understand the second part!]] But then I also find it quite original that you are acting in hand at the Viktor Adler market, for example, in the National Council election campaign with the cross in hand, wetting around with the cross, trying to sell your marginal politics as so-called defensive Christianity. [[Abg. Rosary: This is the contrast!]] And then I find it quite original that you place things like “Daham instead of Islam” in the election campaign. Who abuses religion for political purposes, Mr. Strache? [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Call to the FPÖ: For God's sake!]] Because FPÖ has repeatedly claimed and today also claimed that we would take in a lot of protection seekers in Europe and in Austria, a few dry but nevertheless sad figures: In Syria, half of the population is on the run and has been displaced. 6.4 million Syrians are fleeing within Syria. More than 3 million Syrians had to flee abroad to the neighbouring countries in this region to save their lives. A few other dry numbers: Lebanon has received over one million of these Syrian refugees – over a million! Turkey detto, over a million. Jordan has received over 600,000 Syrian refugees – the small country of Jordan! And even Iraq, who knows God is not a satisfied or stable region, this country itself in a crisis where people are also persecuted and slaughtered by the IS-terrorist military, this Iraq has absorbed 215 000 Syrian refugees. Do you know how many Syrian refugees have taken up the entire EU during this period, in these three and a half years, since this war was raging in Syria? – 165,000 Syrian refugees, the whole EU, 28 EU countries. [[Abg. We're not a neighboring country!]] [[Abg. Kickl: How many refugees did Iraq take up in the Balkan War?]] In comparison, Iraq alone has 215 000 refugees. [[Abg. Kickl: This is a neighboring country!]] Ladies and gentlemen, these figures alone are sufficient to correct the relationships. There are very few people seeking protection in the EU. Most of them are housed in the crisis regions – millions in the meantime! It's only about Syrians and Syrians, I'm not talking about other countries. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] And because here is linked by the FPÖ, by the Freedom Party of Austria, very often Islam has been associated with the terror of the IS terrorists radicalizations, violence and terror are hopefully rejected by all of us. [[Abg. Strache: “Islamism” was the term!]] But: We also need to look at how radicalisation is promoted, how radicalisation comes about, so that we can ensure that this radicalization does not come about at all! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Arbitrator.]] A favorite theme of the FPÖ is the Chechens, who are now under severe pressure. Yes, there are Czech asylum seekers who are thought to have gone to war in Syria, most likely – and constitutional protection is concerned with it. [[Abg. Strache: But also thousands who travel to Chechnya every year on vacation! They're supposed to be persecuted there!]] They must feel the full hardness of the rule of law – I emphasize: the rule of law! And, hopefully, there can be no differences between us that we say: Whoever finances terror, who advertises for terror, who participates in terror, is worthy of the full hardness of the rule of law! [[Call the FPÖ:Not the left state!]] I hope we have an opinion. And there is no single problem with putting an entire religious group in Bausch and Bogen or an entire “ethnic” – under quotation marks – group such as the Chechens and Chechens under general suspicion. [[Abg. That's not what anybody is doing.]] If you want to talk about Chechens, we will also talk about the conditions in Chechens; then we will talk about the dictator Kadyrow whom you have visited! [[Abg. Street: Then why are 5,000 asylum seekers still going there every year on vacation?- Oh, my God!]] After this visit, the Freedom Party announced, surprisingly, that there was – Mr Strache, I think you spoke and gave a speech. [[Abg. Street: I ask you what: Why drive 5,000 on vacation there?- Oh, my God!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Strache: Unfortunately no answer!]] Perhaps you can be so democratic and so free to listen to colleagues when they are here at the speaker's desk! You're always asking me something, but you've had your speaking time. It would be very gracious if you could listen to the others too! The FPÖ is well-known for intermediate calls, for permanent calls, for aggressive calls, and also for aggressive campaigners. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Since the first National Council!]] So so much for your so-called separation of politics and religion. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Haider: You're confusing with Mr. Steinhauser!]] [[Abg. Kickl: You must also be careful with the liberals when packaged!]] In conclusion: To prevent radicalization, to suffocate in the germ and not to create it, we need much more prevention projects. They have so far been completely underexposed. Criminal law can take effect if radicalisation has already taken place, if people have unfortunately already participated in, promoted or advertised this terror. Much more important is to invest in prevention to prevent young people from radicalizing older people and moving to an unholy war where they enslave and murder Muslims, Christians, Kurds, Kurds, non-religious people. This must be avoided together – without witches, without hatred policies, without the possibility of dissociating and discriminating entire religious, ethnic or other groups! I am convinced that if we act together in the sense of democracy, in the sense of the rule of law, we can fight and prevent radicalisation all the more effectively. With a Hetzpolitik, a hatred policy, with “Daham instead of Islam” posters, with a flag with the cross in hand, we do not get further, dear colleagues from the Freeman. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e4990	The next item is Mrs. Klub Chairman Dr. Nachbaur. 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e5012	Madam President. Dear government representatives! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Dear taxpayers! Austria is an enlightened country with mainly Christian but also Jewish roots. And through immigration over the past decades, many people have come to us Muslim faith and Muslim culture. Living together with people from different cultures, religions, countries in this world can be a great enrichment, as I have experienced in Toronto, Montreal and New York. But it is essential that everyone who comes to us, of course our constitution, accepts our laws, respects our values, learns our language and integrates itself here, whether he is immigrating or enjoying asylum right here on time. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] There are well over 100 private Islamic kindergartens and schools in Austria, and many of them are said to be in the hands of Salafists. Today I too would like to quote Islam theologian Ednan Aslan, who recently said in an interview that he is worried about what is being taught in these kindergartens. He says that there people's schoolgirls are instigated by fundamentalist Qur'an teachers, that they later have to carry the Niqap, for otherwise they land in the traps of the devil. He also says that some of the officially recognized Islam teachers advertise for their political leaders in Egypt who call for Sharia and reject all the constitutions, except, of course, the Qur'an, and also call on Jewish products to boycott. This has not lost anything in our society! [[Congratulations with the Stronach team as well as the Gartelgruber and Pock Members.]] We must fight against such dangerous and totalitarian tendencies with all available means of the rule of law! When it comes to our freedom and democracy, there is no If and But and no compromises! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We must not allow such a thing to be taught in our country and to be seduced by young people. Ms. Interior Minister, you have already said that 150 young Austrians have already left for Syria to serve the Islamic State there and perhaps sacrifice their lives. Austria is in the sad European peak. But this is only the tip of the iceberg, for jihadism is increasingly becoming a youthful cultural phenomenon. Current figures from the UK are very alarming, because there is already a sympathizer of the Islamic State to every seventh youth. These worrying developments threaten our freedom, threaten our basic democratic system. In Austria there must not be a haters, radical and extremist developments must not be impoverished and tolerated! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Austria is to remain an enlightened and peaceful country, which naturally welcomes people from abroad with good intentions, provided that this also allows our local labour market. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] What we must not forget about loud tolerance is what we are actually standing for. We must not betray our values. Those who sleep in a democracy may wake up in a dictatorship. Misunderstanding tolerance is dangerous. I can tell you from my own experiences, Multikulti can be truly enriching. From my time at Magna in Canada, I really have many friends, including from Africa, from Asia. But a multicult that works requires that it is peaceful and diligent people who accept the fundamental values of society in which they live, especially the women who respect No homosexuals who are not anti-Semitic. For people who reject our laws and values, Austria has no place. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and the FPÖ representatives.]] The Austrians traditionally have a very big heart when it comes to helping people in crisis situations and crisis countries, and we can be very, very proud of that. But that does not mean that we can accommodate all the poorest of the poor – just where there is now a record unemployment in Austria, especially where single parents do not know how to get over the rounds and exactly where there are many pensioners who, despite having worked hard for their lives, do not come out with their pension. I can't do that! Our small country takes up the third most people throughout the EU. Of course, we want to save all the people of the world out of the commandment of humanity, but there you have to be realistic. Therefore, we demand a fixed distribution within the EU by population size and economic strength, so that one can support those concerned, but does not bring one's own country out of balance. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The Dublin agreement must also be applied, because many of the refugees should not enter Austria at all. And if we take up and accommodate refugees, then, of course, we have to reach agreement with the mayors in the past. It's not when I think about the Semmering, that you just go over the mayor and the population that is based there from Vienna. That is, of course, something that causes resistance. That can't go well. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] A sustainable solution for so many poor people around the world is only possible if living conditions are improved in the countries of origin. However, this is the task of the governments of the countries concerned. We can help ourselves here, but we cannot bear the full responsibility for that. It is also interesting that any foreign intervention that has so far been supposed to have served in the countries concerned for the supposed democratisation and liberation of the peoples has so far brought, above all, anarchy, chaos, expulsion and terrible refugee flows. It should be Austria's role to act as a peace mediator. We should be focused on aid for self-help, put on peace mediation, and not import war disputes into Austria! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Islamism threatens our freedom and peace in our country. And freedom and peace are the highest good for which we have fought for centuries. We must not put this at risk by misinterpreted tolerance! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e5148	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e5169	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! We are now discussing exactly the same subject within two weeks, in turn at the suggestion of the FPÖ. I also think it is important that we discuss this, which is really an important issue, both in terms of security and asylum. The question is just what kind of tone we're discussing it in. And you, Mr Kickl – even though Mr Klubobmann Strache was almost factual on the subject today – then came out and destroyed everything we thought we were talking about, perhaps we are discussing a little bit more objectively. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Kickl and Mr Darmann.]] The only thing you do again is you startle fears against people who have fled from home, who are at home war, who have given up everything, have left everything behind, all they have built up, who have used all their money, that they can flee here, and are looking for protection here that has taken an incredibly uncertain undertaking that they will come here at all. [[Abg. Gartelgruber: What fears of the population?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Kickl: I think you wrote the speech before you heard me!]] You know, these are human tragedies around which it's here, and that's what you don't want to recognize. Put yourself in the position of people who are at home at war, who have to flee and leave everything to come here! [[Abg. Kickl: Should have been in Austrian history already!]] Put yourself in the position as this is! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] What we should be talking about is how we can provide these people with a safe and decent reception, how we can give them security in a situation where they urgently need it, because the essential thing they need in this situation is security. And you're discussing here again and you're trying to startle fears. I don't think you can imagine what situations these people come from, because we still live here in one of the safest countries in the world, although today you have told us that everything is so unsafe in Austria. [[Abg. Kickl: I think you didn't listen at all!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] Even if all that you have a little swinging along here would vote and correspond to the truth, then the blame allocations will continue to do nothing, it will not bring the panic of your own, because behind all your flakes and all your slogans, there are no solutions and no concepts as to how to deal with it in any way. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Reflect on what you quoted!]] The only thing you always say is: Well, we have to close the borders, we need border controls immediately and suspend the Schengen Agreement. [[Abg. Kickl: Apply the principle to your own speech!]] – Mr Kickl, Article 23 of the Schengen Border Code states that ‘the temporary reintroduction of border controls at internal borders in the event of a serious threat to public order or internal security for a maximum of 30 days, in exceptional cases, is permitted’. In your urgent request you can read of the East Bands who “do not get across the border and follow their criminal day and night work”. Now I'm wondering, How do you want if In the meantime, are you introducing border controls that prevent East Bands from coming back when you stop border controls? Do you think you can solve the problem with that? [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: My goodness! I would have thought you were fairer!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] Do you believe that you will solve it when you introduce border controls in the meantime? Then you argue that eight heads of state also demand it. Only because the eight heads of state demand does not make the whole story even more correct, and it still has nothing to do with the crime that comes from the East – which nobody is fighting. [[Call to the FPÖ: But this speaks against the heads of state...!]] – How do you want to solve the problem? The problem is, you're not even interested in a serious solution – comes right away – because it's much easier to make policy with fear and panic; because you want to give simple answers and nothing else. [[Abg. Kickl: Now the proposal of NEOS! That would be interesting!]] [[I should like to congratulate the NEOS and the representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] You have to think about whether we can somehow put the problem at the root of how we can help people in the countries where crises are where refugees come from – and there you are right that many economic migrants come to us. And this is about focusing on development aid, on crisis aid and ensuring that people are not forced to flee their home countries. Because, whether you believe it or not, it's not funny, and people don't do it out of jux and toll because they find it funny to flee from home. That's what you don't understand. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] You are not the only ones who hold this discussion in this way, that is what many others are doing. What this is about throughout the debate is the shifting of responsibilities. I think it is much more important, and I am really deeply convinced that we should finally take responsibility for everyone together. We should work together to address this problem – and there are problems in this area, I do not dispute at all – and work together to tackle all these problems in some way and get a human rights-compliant and a common, coordinated asylum system. [[Abg. Darmann: Proposal! Where is the proposal?]] [[Abg. That's why we're here today!]] We need rules for all of Austria. We need rules – that is what the Minister of the Interior has already mentioned – and we need quotas for the countries, and these quotas must also be respected, because otherwise the whole system will not work. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Don't we? We don't have a human rights-compliant asylum right in Austria?]] – Mr Rosenkranz, you will still hear it. Of course, it's not always easy to find the corresponding accommodations, but I still think it's possible if you want to. We see this right now in Vienna, where it has worked quickly to find suitable accommodation. The problem is that these are only transitional quarters, and they will not be there any more. Of course, the fact that we have not prepared ourselves in accordance with the fact that the corresponding quarters were not there are failures that have happened in the asylum area for many years, because we could have known in advance that all these crises broke out. That's not what happened from today to tomorrow. This has not been done, therefore it is difficult, because there is also the discussion every time about how to do this with the mayors on the ground – I understand the concerns – but we have to face these problems. [[Abg. Kickl: There have already been a few who warned, but that was Hetzer!]] [[Abg. Strache: When one shows the problem, hetzer is called!]] [[Abg. Kickl: There are already a few who have warned!]] I think we must try together to take responsibility here and give these people accommodations. Actually, we should discuss this – and that is what is not possible with you – that we are finally finding solutions at European level. I think Club-obmann Lopatka already said it: For you, the European Union is something distant, you do not want to discuss it. The European Union is always at fault with all that you somehow do not fit. But that's the problem. We need to discuss solutions at European level, otherwise this will not work. That's where we should be. I'll give you all the right in one thing: You are right that in Austria, compared to other European countries, many asylum seekers are above average. You are also perfectly right when you say that this is not understandable, because Austria is not at all at an EU external border. That's all perfectly right. But how do we get the problem under control? – We will only get the problem under control if we have discussed seriously at European level about quotas for asylum seekers, implement Dublin II... [[Abg. Darmann: There is already the Dublin II agreement!]] . You know that Dublin II is leading us to move people from Austria to another European country, that other European countries are moving people to us, and that it does not do anything because at the end it is an absolute zero-sum game. [[Abg. Kickl: You don't have to invent anything you already have! You just have to do it!]] [[Abg. Street: The laws belong to executed!]] You know that. It says every statistics of the Ministry of the Interior that it simply doesn't do anything. The big problem with Dublin II is – and that is what you do not want to see – that the situation is unbearable in many areas in the countries at European external borders, and that is why, despite Dublin II regulation, we are not moving back to Greece. In the latest judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, it is said that shifts – exactly! – from Switzerland to Italy – this is again a country that is at the EU’s external border – no longer possible, because this is contrary to Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: We have read all this! Oh, yeah!]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Italy – from below, from the human rights standard!]] These are the problems you do not accept. [[Abg. Darmann: That's incredible!]] Finally, we need a common European asylum system and quotas for all European countries, because otherwise we will not get in touch with the problems if we always abandon the countries at the European external borders. There the situation is unbearable. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] You don't see that. Take a look at the situation in Greece, Italy and so on! And you want to continue sending people back there?! - It can't work. These countries are overwhelmed with all the... [[Abg. These are all EU countries!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] – You know very well that it doesn’t work. Read the judgment! According to Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights, it is not possible to move someone back to Italy because this would be a humiliating or inhuman treatment, because the quarters do not have the standard they should have. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: This is in the middle of the EU!]] That is why we need to discuss this together, Mr Klubobmann Strache, that we have a European asylum system that we are dividing here within Europe by quotas. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Exactly! The new asylum system!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] Mr. Klubobmann Strache! For European affairs, and this is a European matter, we need common European solutions, and there is no solution for your national thinking. That's the problem you don't see. [[Abg. That's exactly what Dublin II is about!]] That is why I am putting forward the following motion for a resolution – Mr Kickl, I have to read it: [[Abg. Kickl: Then we'll lock up! You'd love that!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e5629	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e5702	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Darmann. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e5723	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! If in recent years, but especially in recent months, one has seen the aimless drive of this Federal Government in the asylum sector, and this is combined with the debilitating, with the obsessive remarks about the problems in the Republic of Austria – in particular from Mr. Klubobmann's arbitration, which is not present at the moment, but also from Mr. Klubobmann's Lopatka, but also from the Greens – then one is really unscrupulous. I also believe that many people who follow this meeting at home here and today will shake the head of the refusal of reality here from your side, ladies and gentlemen, who are missing awareness of problem here and today for all – in the best sense of the word – “paint”! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It can't be, and it can't be, that you all get out of here and actually push away the problems in the field of radical Islamism, in the field of internal security, but in particular asylum – and always point your finger at the liberals. [[Abg. Amon: But go!]] The liberals are the problem because we are the only ones who trust here to actually address the problems in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] These are the problems that we do not lose sight of, but these are the problems that the people communicate to us accordingly and – I assume – communicate to all of you when you travel outside your federal states in your districts. There you get the concerns of the population day after day: the concerns of the population regarding asylum, where this federal government has failed in recent years to do the homework that it would have had to do. These were homeworks that would have taken care of this – if one had really fought against asylum abuse here – to have at present the resources to protect war refugees here in Austria for a certain period of time. That is what we are talking about, that, here and today, on the part of the Federal Government, but also the government factions, which would be called upon to control this federal government responsibly and to identify problems that are hampered, it is not recognized that asylum abuse has to be stopped and is not recognized – and that is absolutely an insanity, Mrs Innenminister; You seem to have slept the problem! – that the European Court of Human Rights made a decision yesterday – Mr Scherak has already mentioned it – which the Dublin agreement throws into the trash. The Dublin Agreement has been since yesterday's decision on the waste, because the Republic of Austria and Switzerland in the future can no longer move back to Italy those persons whose asylum procedures actually need to be handled in Italy. [[Abg. Amon: Have you read it?]] This was decided for Switzerland. [[Abg. Amon: Have you read it?]] Ladies and gentlemen, this leaves only one end for the future: If we are no longer lords in our own home, because a European Court of Human Rights has nothing to do with removing international, European, that is, EU-wide contractual agreements, then we must first close the borders accordingly and already choose at the border who is coming to Austria and who is not. [[Abg. Kickl: Incredible!]] [[Abg. I know what you're thinking. That's absurd!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's the only way. This is also true in the area of East Bands, the mafia connections that come to Austria every day, follow their craftsmanship here, and can leave without hindrance overnight with all joy. In this area too, it is important to draw clear consequences and introduce temporary border controls. Nothing else will give us the appropriate tools to become lord of these machinations. Freedom of movement has now become a ‘free movement of persons’, particularly in the central area of Europe, in the countries that are well-known and here in Austria as well: a ‘free movement of goods’ and a ‘free movement of goods’ to be combated. We have also planned appropriate measures for this purpose. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I should therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, put off your party political scams! Voices They are such measures: in the sense of the security of our people, in the sense of a regulated asylum system, which in fact guarantees the protection and assistance of the time needed by the Geneva Convention on Refugees, and not all those who are pushing for Austria out of economic interests! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e5869	This motion for a resolution is also properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e5993	Next speaker: Mrs Lueger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e6014	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Watchers in front of the screens! I would like to add the figures raised by Mr Korun. On Tuesday, the OSCE Human Trade Conference was held in Vienna, where it was once again noted that 50 million people worldwide are on the run. 50 million people! That is as many as it has not been since the Second World War. Since 2000, more than 22,000 refugees have been drowned on their way to Europe in the Mediterranean and around 40 000 refugees have died in the same period. Mr. Strache, if you say again, we have savings at the police, please think back: What was between 2000 and 2006? [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: We live 2014!]] – You saved 3,000 police officers back then. They saved her back then. [[Abg. Strache: You have been in charge since 2006! You haven't improved anything!]] If we are talking today about asylum applications, including the treatment of asylum applications, I would recommend that you: Talk to your colleague Bösch! He was in the Constitutional Committee yesterday. There the President of the Constitutional Court told us that the duration of asylum proceedings is 82 days. – Perfect. You, too, have stressed very strongly in your last speech that something has been done. The number of rejections has not changed in any way over the last three years; he has also said that. – So what you always say can't be a talk. [[Abg. Strache: This has been the abuse for three years!]] There are still requests from you. The first request I have made is: They no longer want asylum seekers in police facilities, no more housing asylum seekers in executive facilities. [[Abg. Strache: Where the ammunition is still stored in the third district in Erdberg!]] Why is that so? – Because, on the one hand, only Lower Austria and Vienna fulfil the quota. That is why this transitional possibility is necessary, important and correct. And that is why I believe that this must be the case. In the next request, you will require necessary strengthening of the asylum system, where you write in your explanatory statement: The pressure on asylum is growing massively. Yeah, it's not a simple time, but don't be angry. They say that at the beginning of the year there were 22,000 people in basic care, now there are 27,000 people. They speak of an increase of 5,000 people. – That’s awesome when you listen to the numbers around the world and in the face of the war that is now taking place in the Middle East. [[Abg. Street: This is the population of Eisenstadt every year!]] [[Abg. Deimek: strange philosophy!]] I have already mentioned the reduction of the procedure. You say you only want to have the basic provision of asylum seekers in large houses at all. Well, I'd like to experience that with you. I'm in favour of their being housed in small units. This is better and more tolerable for the population. And I am also in favour of having uniform minimum standards, and these uniform minimum standards are controlled. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Amon.]] My colleague has already mentioned which people you are surrounded by and which people you are negotiating with. [[Abg. Darmann: You don't think anything else!]] I would like to add that. You have a panel discussion next week with a certain Akif Pirinçci. Akif Pirinçci is a German-Turkish writer who has become famous – I would like to quote here – for the blog “The Axis of Evil”. [[Abg. Kickl: I think it was the SPÖ that was coming!]] It would have been best if he had stayed with his novels, for he was the one who made it the loudest, the third and most repugnant to the new representatives of the New Right. He is one who publicly supports “Hooligans against Salafists”, initiates a witch hunt against Muslims and scientists, and in the Internet hets against feminists. And with this you'll be making a public event next week? - Congratulations! [[Abg. Kickl: With whom?]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: What does this have to do with asylum abuse?]] What to do You're continuing? – Her own party colleague from the district of Schwechat, Odo Döschl, writes letters in the “Kronen Zeitung”. [[Abg. Kickl: Do you say “you” and “e” together with your name?- Oh, my God!]] Everyone can do, but I would just like to mention a few things. Asylum seekers have a negative impact on tourism. They bring only crime. Apart from the fact that they are not at all usable, let alone, they are largely unqualified asylum seekers. - Quote. Surrounded with such people You are? These people are just advertising for you. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Who are you talking about?]] [[Abg. Darmann: What's his name?]] I wouldn't be surprised if this story on the nasal market didn't come from one of your feathers with this warning on a car. There's a wrong warning. He found the paper on the windshield of his car on the naschmarkt. There's a big deal on a note: Wearing through your careless parking You have a parking space, which is usually sufficient for 20 camels and a driver. I wish you a motor damage on the highway at 23 o'clock, at minus 26 degrees and wind strength 12, a pan. A Grantler. - Quote. [[Abg. Kickl: Did you take the wrong note? What are you talking about?]] I can already imagine this coming from a spring of one of your colleagues or one of your colleagues. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] We from SPÖ are trying to address this issue. [[Abg. Kickl: You are Mrs. Liar!]] We are not trying to do dirty business with the asylumists as you do, and we are also trying to fight this cruel terror where the IS is “working”. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They're hot. The only thing you do is hate. And then I'll stick to my statement: Hetze. And you're scaring people. They do not contribute to any solution in any way. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: But you!]] We are committed to this. One of the points is this de-radicalisation shotline with the advisory body established in the family ministry. [[Abg. Kickl: Where the radicals and the antisemits sit from your lists!]] We are in favour of protecting our children and young people so that they do not go to this IS war.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e6292	The next item is the speech by Mr Amon. Speech time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e6313	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If, on the one hand, one looks at the convocation of this special meeting and the urgent request of the liberals and on the other, at the debate and the way it is led by the FPÖ, one gets the impression that the FPÖ does not take this issue seriously. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gartelgruber: What?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: But do you take it seriously?- Oh, my God!]] Otherwise, you could not perform such a political theatre, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Kickl: I think you've been there too long!]] If Mr Darmann thinks that everyone else should take the party political glasses and the party political scams, then I would recommend to you, Mr Darmann, and the whole FPÖ club to ask yourself the question why you are so alone in your position here in the house. [[Abg. Darmann: Yes, of course, otherwise you will not see the problems!]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gartelgruber: Have you talked to the population lately?]] [[Abg. Kickl: Mr Amon, you do not want to say that you are “not all alone ”?- Oh, my God!]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] – I like to enter into a discourse with you, but I can’t do that with everyone at the same time. [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] It is already significant as you try to present yourself as those who solve problems. A little bit you have the impression that you are able to touch hot iron with foreign hands and clear fires that you have laid yourself. This is a little bit the policy that the FPÖ is running here! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Mr Kickl, Mr Kitzmüller and Mr Gartelgruber.]] Mr. Klubobmann Strache is here at the speaker's desk – his own urgent one obviously has no such great importance for him because he has already left the debate – and he is doing the long and broading of the processes around the radical Islamist Mohamed M., who has presented relatively detailed plans on the Internet around EURO 2008. [[Abg. Kickl: He's an interview right now! He thought that's best when you talk!]] [[Call to the FPÖ:And where is the arbitrator?]] This is what Mr Strache has presented and provided. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] Only, it was not the FPÖ that ensured that the EURO has gone over the stage without incidents, but it was our police authorities that have revealed the case and put in place the appropriate protective measures. [[Call the FPÖ:Yes, eh!]] Thank you and the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection, ladies and gentlemen, and not the FPÖ who is trying to take this up for himself. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Mohamed M. has been sentenced, he has been released from prison in Turkey, and now he is in one of those cities taken by this Islamic State terrorist organization. [[Abg. Darmann: We know that too!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ:Yes, eh!]] Ladies and gentlemen, this also shows that the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and our police authorities have a good grip on the matter. Let's not exclaim! That is why I believe that this special session, as you have put it, is wrong, because it is not a political theatre, but the defensive democrats have been asked in this matter, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Mrs. Kitzmüller, because you are intervening again: That shows what chuzpe you have! You ask for a special meeting, you ask 51 questions in your urgent question, which the Federal Minister answers in detail, and then, Mr Kickl, go out here and criticize the length of answer to the questions. So what you're doing here is really a Kasperl Theater, Mr. Kickl! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: You could have kept the introduction a little shorter! You are already in charge of the Kasperl Theatre!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] And then – Question 9 – ask the following question to the Federal Minister: “How many have returned already?” – You mean the Foreign Fighters who fought in those countries. The Federal Minister will answer this question and give you a number: 67. And what happens back there in the liberal sector in the vicinity of the colleague Kitzmüller? – They all call in: Where are the 67? Where are they? – Yes, do you believe that the Federal Minister will distribute a list here in the hall where these 67 returnees will stay? [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Kitzmüller and Mr Kassager.]] What you are asking for here does not bring security, but it would cause chaos, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] If you have a serious interest in security policy, you should be glad that our constitutional guards know exactly how many have come back. [[Abg. Darmann:... wrong!]] [[Abg. Kassinger:... walk around freely! Where are they?]] Do you not see on the basis of the answer to the questions, how well our authorities are actually set up? [[New call for tender of the Abg. Kassinger.]] The difference to you, however, is that with all our measures we are on the ground of the Austrian legal order, on the ground of the European legal order, while you want to remove the European legal system and also the Austrian legal system, and that is not the case, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! [[Abg. Deimek: The European legal order is that we pay everything!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] It is about accepting the matter with all its substance, but also in all its determination, and that those measures which the Federal Government has proposed and which we will decide here in the House – whether or not You will be there or not – the right way to meet this problem, and not your fear!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e6669	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e6697	Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you to the FPÖ for the encouraging words! That motivates you to walk to the speaker's desk. You've realized you've got an opponent in me! [[Call the FPÖ:But a weak one!]] Dear Liberal Party of Austria, we do not discuss this for the first time. You tried for the second or third time. So there are two ways: One variant is that you want to do your political business with the uncertainty and fear of people. [[Ah-run of the Abg. Kickl.]] – Mr Kickl shakes the head, so I guess variant two: You didn't understand. That is why I would put it together in simple sentences for you. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Mr. Steinhauser, ten years ago...! Now you've got the screen on!]] First: It is not surprising that there is war in Syria, so the numbers of refugees are rising as people are threatened with rape, murder and drag. [[Abg. Kassinger: Not really wrong!]] - Really wrong? There is no war in Syria? - Well, we already have the proof: You didn't understand! [[Abg. Kassinger: Not really wrong! 80 percent...!]] Secondly, The numbers of refugees are definitely lower at the moment than at the time of black and blue, although they are on the rise. At the time when you were responsible, there were 40 000 refugees. I don't blame you for that. It was probably because of the Afghanistan crisis at the time that people sought protection. At the moment there are 17 000. [[Abg. Darmann: Asylum abuse has been limited, this is a huge difference!]] Thirdly, 95 percent of refugees find asylum and accommodation in neighbouring countries. Your suggestion that the neighbouring countries should do something goes empty when 95 percent find admission there. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Fourth: The Austrians are more helpful than you think, and that's good. And fifth, and this is a matter of course: Totalitarian attitudes and intolerance – no matter what ideology or view: whether Islamic fundamentalism or right-wing extremism – have no place and will find our contradiction! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Or left extremism! Can you pronounce the word?]] Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, the polarization you operate will not continue to help. I'll tell you something. I don't want Vienna to be Cologne. You have to say a few words. Cologne is the stronghold of the Salafists. We also do not want Vienna to become the stronghold of the Salafists. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz:...Hetze!]] Cologne, however, was also a short scene of a large Hooligan demonstration, which led to massive and severe outpourings. The Hooligans from all over Europe have gathered there – supposedly to demonstrate against Salafism, in fact, to spread fear and terror there and to marginalize it. [[Abg. Deimek: There you have to ask the coroner senior!]] A police trader has said – and I think the German police are used to a lot – that has been a new quality of violence. I don't want Vienna to be Cologne. There you have to come to the event you are planning. They'll call for a rally in Simmering tomorrow. This rally is directed against the opening of a Muslim cultural centre, and no question, in this Muslim cultural centre is also a school of Imam, which is supported by the National Religious Organization “ Millî Görüş”. [[Ah-run of the Abg. Kickl]] [[Ah-run of the Abg. Kickl]] [[New Ah-Ruf des Abg. Kickl.]] No question: “ Millî Görüş” finds our rejection. [[Abg. Kickl: But go!]] And there's only one answer to that: The demand that Imame be trained publicly and transparently – and not in any organizations of the ‘ Millî Görüş’. But your answer is another one. They from the FPÖ are trying to use the uncertainty of people, are calling for a demonstration and saying, “Together with radical Islamism! [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Yes, we have learned that from you! We've learned from you how to do that!]] We understand your anger!" [[Abg. Darmann: Are you opposed to demonstrations? The Greens are against the freedom of demonstration!]] Whoever you mean with “joint” and whose “Wit” you understand is not quite clear. But I'll tell you who's in touch: Addressed is a so-called HoGeSa travel community, which is the abbreviation for “Hooligans against Salafists travel community”, and that is that troupe of Hooligans, who has been pilgrimd from Austria to Cologne to randalize there. [[Abg. Kickl: That's a grunt! You know that we have nothing to do with it!]] This now mobilizes again in Germany to come to your rally. [[Abg. Kickl: That's incredible! Do you want to restrict the right to demonstrate? I think you want that! Only the Greens can demonstrate!]] – I explain it to you; listen carefully! You'll be tomorrow. Experience your wonder when you see who will stand next to you – or maybe you are not surprised at all because you even expect it. [[Abg. Kickl: That's unheard of! That's incredible! We don't want anything to do with them! But you won't get it so far that only the Greens can demonstrate!]] Someone from Germany writes: On Thursday, 6th. November, there is a demonstration of the FPÖ against an Imam school in Vienna. Come on, everybody! Follow the information. These are exactly those Hooligans who are looking forward to your demonstration that ransacked in Cologne! [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] We don't want that in Vienna! This is exactly the point where the FPÖ interface becomes visible to right-wing extremism. [[Abg. Kickl: Typical green perpetrator-sacrifice conversion!]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear: Right-wing extremism is not an answer to Islamic fundamentalism! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e7014	The next item is Mr Ertlschweiger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e7036	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Today, when people in Burgenland read headlines on the ORF website or in the BVZ: ‘140 refugees at sea level within two days’; “30-year-old tug” in Heiligenbrunn “captured”, “25 people brought across the border”, then she no longer really brings it out of the version. Unfortunately, we Burgenländer have become accustomed to such news – even if the headlines, as in this case, are only a few days apart. The “Learned Austrian” has an ambivalent attitude on the subject of asylum in times of record unemployment. Although in Austria we are in the top line in the EU comparison with our asylum rate – we have heard it today – this topic is being discussed in a hot manner at the ordinary table: One still wants to record more, the other say: The boat is full! On the one hand, we need and want to help all refugees in the sense of humanity and also in accordance with the existing EU treaties. There's, I think, a lot of discussion about this. Only everyone has to be able to do what it would be like to do if he was in need of help. But on the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, the federal government and countries are always pushing this hot asylum potato to each other. First of all, we are dealing with the fulfilment of quotas. The federal government takes the countries into account; the countries take the covenant into account. This ping pong game always works until you lose your nerves: As in September – our club-wife Dr. Nachbaur has already mentioned it – when the Ministry of Interior in the Styrian 600-Seelen-Ortschaft Steinhaus, which belongs to the municipality of Spital am Semmering, briefly rented a hotel and almost overnight converted the "Haus Semmering" into an initial reception centre with 200 beds – and this, although Steinhaus am Semmering already has two quarters with a total of 70 asylum seekers at that time. [[Abg. Darmann: Good business!]] One does not necessarily have to be Adam giant in order to calculate that the proportionality of the population to that of the asylum seekers cannot proceed. The dissatisfaction of the population over this Approach was rightly huge and it remains. Those who pass over people in this way must not be surprised when they get the bill presented. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] A speaker from the Ministry of the Interior said to the “Small Newspaper”: “The situation is dramatic, solidarity is needed.” And with this statement, he hit the nail on his head: It is in fact a question of solidarity, but not only of us Austrians, of our communities, of the countries and of the Federation, but above all also of those EU countries that have not or have only done their asylum duties to this day or only to the present day. The responsibility for refugee division in Europe must finally be distributed justly! Solidarity is not a one-way road! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The Dublin Regulation, which has already been quoted today, requires an asylum seeker to apply for asylum in that Member State which he first entered, and can also be postponed on the basis of this Regulation on a return to other EU Member States in that country. – We all know this regulation, this law. Just, ladies and gentlemen, the problem is that this law is not being lived that way. As a good EU net payer, Austria cannot always be exemplary in complying with the rules, but other countries that are net recipients are not doing so. It can't be! They all know the principle of “pacta sunt servanda”, contracts must be respected. This is the principle of loyalty to the Treaty, and this is exactly what Austria must call for by those EU Member States that are still deaf in the asylum debate. The Minister of the Interior has articulated this in her speech. Again: Treaties must be respected, and every EU country must include asylum seekers in accordance with EU rules, which would be fair, and so it is written. But as long as this end to the European asylum and refugee policy does not succeed and other EU countries do not finally fulfil their asylum obligations, I am very clear in this respect that temporary border controls will be reintroduced in Austria. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Why am I speaking out for that? – Especially in the eastern region, tow crime has increased somewhat in the last few months. If you look at the situation around Europe, you must not assume that it will be much better – on the contrary! Especially in the sense of a differentiated view of the issue of asylum in the context of increasing crime in the border regions, it is a matter of policy to adapt this debate to the facts. That is why I have also sent to the Federal Minister for the Interior a question broken down by districts concerning border control in Burgenland. I am looking forward to your reply, Mrs Federal Minister, because it is precisely on this basis that temporary border controls will not only have to be reintroduced, ladies and gentlemen, but will further justify them. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e7102	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Alm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e7124	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! High house! The FPÖ has already invited for the second time to an event entitled “Islamization”. I have said last time that the FPÖ is taking the choice of words into consideration, because “Islamization” means nothing but a connection between the topics of asylum advertising, immigration and Muslims living here under one term. [[Abg. Kickl: What's the whole title?]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: He can't read!]] [[Abg. Kickl: So much about honesty!]] It is immense, and actually amazing, how Klubobmann Strache, in a sentence of Islamism to Traiskirchen, strikes a bridge to Ostmafia and thus tries to unite the whole crime with this one term. [[Abg. Kickl: You didn't understand that, but that doesn't surprise me!]] On the other hand, you are faced with “responsible Christianity, ” and Klubobmann Strache himself has spoken of an offensive countermovement that he wants to initiate here. That is, by the FPÖ, you instrumentalize religion in apparently homogenizing two groups of people and then mobilizing them against each other. This is the old-known pattern of the FPÖ that you play over and over again – and unfortunately this pattern is also partly taken over by the government parties. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: For God's sake!]] This is reflected in the draft new Islam Law. I have already believed that the new Islam law has nothing to do with the operations in the "Islamic State". But this is different, and ÖVP Klubobmann Lopatka has confirmed it and said that the Islam Law is the answer; otherwise, in the other legal measures, this is not usually mentioned by the Minister of the Interior. This new Islam law is obviously a statement against Muslims in Austria and against Islamic organizations in Austria. Muslims are suspected by this new Islam law. They are kept to a degree that cannot be found in any other religious community in a law to comply with the laws. That is, there is a general suspicion being rolled out, and it is assumed that Muslims are more likely to break the law. This draft of the new Islam law has included other things that are discriminatory to other religious communities that actually have to live with the same restrictions. You have the usual range of privileges for a religion, just a little more limited. For example, there is direct funding of the religious community as with others, but funding from abroad is also to be prohibited. And this is unprecedented and would have to be transferred to other religious societies as well. But ask at the Russian Orthodox Church or at the Israeli Cultus Church, ask the Evangelical Churches what they would think of such a ban on financing abroad! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] Sebastian Kurz has given rise to this ban on funding, which means that control and dependence from abroad should be pushed back or held back. This is absurd in itself, because there is no religious society without a connection to abroad. And it is especially absurd, because of course there are other religions in Austria that have even established this control and dependence from abroad in laws – I am talking about the concordat. Farid Hafez said in the “Press” about the draft Islam Law: “The draft Islam Law has thus become a manifestation of a legally institutionalized Islamphobia.” [[Abg. Kickl: “Islamophobia, ” oh so!]] If you put it a little bit more friendly, you could say: This design looks like an exercise in religious criticism. But try an exercise in the sense of training or for the first time how it deals with the criticism of religion. The “Islamic State” is a problem, and we have heard it is determined against Imame, it is determined in mosques and prayer houses; Graz, Linz, Vienna has been mentioned. That is to say, the problem has been recognized, and the solution is that the draft of the new Islam Law contains this suspicion of general suspicion. There are other, rather bizarre, attempts at solution to exercise control of religion here, for example, by requiring that the representation of the doctrine of this religion, including a text of the essential sources of faith, which reflects the content in German. This is nothing but the requirement for a uniform translation of the Qur'an. And this does not show a great deal of understanding regarding Islam, nor does it show a great deal of understanding as to the relationship between politics and state and religion. I would like to read to you from my favorite translation of the Qur'an, in which I have marked a few places that are critical. For example, there is a verse, a Surenschnepsel, which reads: “And when the Holy Months have expired, kill the Gentiles, where you find them, take them, surround them, and lurk at them everywhere.” That's nothing but the call to murder. And that's not a dead right. This is nothing that stands somewhere in a book and is subject to a translation error, but these are things that are executed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] In Saudi Arabia, atheism is the death penalty, as in twelve other countries. And if you have “lucky” – under quotations – like the atheist blogger Raif Badawi, the death penalty is not imposed, but only ten years in prison, 1,000 whips and a fine of over 200 000 euros. When one sees that what is stated in these religious texts becomes applicable law, it is all the more difficult to understand that the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia in 2011 is allowed to buy the Palais Sturany and install a dialogue center there. It is interesting in this context that Saudi Arabia has not been the best bidder in this procedure. It was de facto the highest bid, but if one calculates the tax burden that this centre has saved by the tax exemption, then one insists that the Republic of Austria has waived about €600 000. Thus, in Saudi Arabia, human rights are systematically violated, a dialogue centre is operated in Austria, and it is to be feared that the Republic of Austria will continue to finance it. We would like to know to what extent and in what form this funding takes place. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Kickl: That's where you want a law for it?]] In conclusion: Indeed, the “Islamic State” is a problem. The Islamization that does not exist, I have shown it to be empirical the last time. There is only a small part of believing Muslims living in Austria. And here, talking about Islamization and connecting the entire criminal file, as your colleague Klubobmann Strache did, is not right; that is miles away from reality. [[Abg. Kickl: It doesn't count on the number!]] But the “Islamic State”, yes, is a problem, a veritable problem, not only because of the inactions that happen in the countries concerned, but also because the “Islamic State” represents a frontal attack on religious, religious and religious freedom and the principle of the separation of state and religion, which has also been largely carried out with us. That is, we need an honest debate on this issue. What we do not need is a political instrumentalization of religion as it operates the FPÖ. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] And we also need no Islam law that suspects the members of a religion. The first is malice, and the second is more helpful in dealing with the subject matter.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e7303	Mr Magistrate. All the motion for a resolution tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e7374	Next speaker: Mr Delegate Dr. Rosary. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e7395	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! I'd like to focus on what has been said here. On the previous remarks of the Greens: I think you feel better when you walk up with the black block and make your demonstrations. I do not want to continue to spread; it has already been mentioned, but there are already hops and malts lost. [[Abg. Walser: Bravo!]] You really have to be freed from fear: I can assure you that democracy is certainly not in danger if there are no left-wing majority groups. This must be done once! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am now also addressing the Neos discussions. In general, I have to say: It has been said that the EU now has to regulate everything, but vice versa, the EU treaties, such as Dublin, Schengen or any other, cannot do so. So now I don't understand how this basic trust is. In fact, we liberals do not want anything other than to comply with the rules of law, the Asylum Act, Dublin II, Schengen Treaties. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Nothing other than compliance with the laws and where there are observations and where it is necessary, we want a little intensification. I believe that if some of the ideas of NEOS, which they have also expressed here, and more precisely consider views, then it must be said that from the political point of view of NEOS, it is quite logical and consistent to release drugs. Because if you were to implement all that NEOS demand – I have to go out, I have not had anything to do with prohibited substances, unlike Mr Strolz – all that the NEOS give of themselves would be able to survive without drug fog. So, in this way, it is quite logical and consistent. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] On the remarks made so far here to Saudi Arabia and to the King Abdullah Centre: Our state brochures may also be strange, for example, the brochure of the Federal Chancellery entitled “Tradition and Violence on Women”. There is a chapter in it that deals with stoning. And there it is not said that one generally rejects stoning or condemns stoning or anything else, no, about which one breaks the head there, is – I quote –: ‘Finally, the execution of the stoning itself clearly shows that: Disadvantages on women, because men are only dug up to the hip, but women are dug up to the shoulders. This is significant because in the case of the ‘visual-liberation’ of the (or the) condemned person a grace can be enforced. This is thus far more likely for men. The practice of stoning is carried out in various countries. In no word does the Federal Chancellery say: This is a acidity, no matter if men or women are stoned!, but one breaks the head about how the stoning can now be done against or more women-righteous. It is unheard of what things are done with our tax money! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now on the question of what is being shown. This time the calls were that we're hot or else we're doing something, not so strong. Some media have written quite about it afterwards. I am thinking in this context, for example, of Mr Pándi, who referred to a comment on the issue of employment for asylum seekers, after some very prominent people, such as Nobel Prizewinner Jelinek or the Kabarettist Steinhauer, have signed: These are those who probably don't have any problems with the AMS and don't have to fear getting a job, they'll be fine. They'll knock on the shoulder again in the evening after the signature with a glass of champagne and say: We've been good again today! – This can be found in so many media. Just what does the FPÖ do if you still want to take the word “hetze” into your mouth? – I can tell you one thing: The newspaper “Today” is not a party organ of the FPÖ, but she writes: “Ministry warns all police against terrorist attacks!” “Terrorists warn at schools”. So I have to say that you should revise a little. According to Mr Kickl, who spoke first after the Minister of State and criticised the management of the time, I must say: Instead of the other speakers here in the House, I would have preferred to listen to the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs for a longer time, because he should have a real idea, which she obviously does not report to the ÖVP club or to the government groups. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What we want is to comply with the laws and intensify them. I should therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] That would be a useful step forward, so that Austria is no longer the number three in the victory pole for destinations, luxury destinations for asylum seekers, who are actually Shinasylants and economic refugees, and we are holding them. Finally, as far as border security is concerned, I would like to address a question to the Federal Minister: What about an asylum-seekers who, despite European solidarity at the external borders of Schengen, who take care of a damp throat, has simply made it to us, illegally, without any evidence of whose identity one cannot see? – You will not get rid of it yourself with the best police equipment, since every message will say: We don't have it, we don't know it, we don't want it!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e7502	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). The motion for a resolution tabled by the rosary is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e7593	Next speaker: Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e7614	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and in front of the screens! It is actually unnecessary to discuss a state policy issue at such a level over and over again. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It will not be better, ladies and gentlemen, if we treat the same subject in the weekly rhythm and bring you the same wrong arguments and do not take note of the correct answers. If you listen, you are already asking what country is being debated here. [[Abg. Kickl: Not always the same!]] – Yes, because it is the truth, Mr. Kickl. Please note: Austria is one of the safest countries, and Vienna is one of the safest major cities! [[Abg. Kickl: Mr Pendl! How many members did the Baader-Meinhof-Bande need to terrorize Germany? How many were these?]] But I say, Mr Commissioner, quite unagitated: Every single crime is too much! I would like to thank our police on every occasion, but also the colleagues of the Foreign Offices, who are doing excellent work here. We should actually use the time more meaningfully and think about how, together with the countries and the municipalities, we can come to the aid of the Austrians, to carry out those tasks, which we voluntarily, by signing and ratifying the Convention on Refugees, decades ago, human, humane and untapped. I am delighted – I do not know if you were in the house yesterday and have listened –: In the relevant committees of both chambers here in the house, the first quality of our foreign authorities and their decisions was expressed by both the Administrative Court and the Constitutional Court. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] From the point of view of the rule of law, we can say: A thank you to all those who provide this quality in the sense of the rule of law, and we can only ask them in front of the curtain. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] It is not right to criticize this area, because these colleagues are doing excellent work in terms of democracy policy and in terms of the rule of law. [[Abg. Strache: What you're getting there is incredible!]] Mr Darmann, please do not be angry with me, it has not been raised in Dublin II. You also have to look at a knowledge. [[Abg. Darmann: Factically yes!]] - No, I don't. Italy does not meet any criteria at all, that is the problem. And that is why we have to see that we come to the same standards within the European Union, because then there is no such discussion and there are no such decisions. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Eben, right!]] But to say plainly that Dublin has been lifted is simply and decisively unfair. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I told you twice last week – you can read this, not only in the reports of the Ministry of the Interior, but also in the documents of this House: The number of crimes – and this is exactly what the focus is on – is falling, and the reconnaissance rate in this area has been the highest or the second highest for ten years. This testifies to excellent work. I would like to stress it once again: Every single crime is too much. But it cannot be that the topics are mixed, that everything is criminalized, for that is simply and decisively unfair. And we also do not need to discuss at such a low level, except – and that is probably your intention – one wants to be quite consciously insecure to the people. And we do not want that, Mr Amon. We want to ensure first-class work and the security of our state for our citizens or to further expand them. I think we should try to meet the general government challenges – and all of these are governmental challenges – together with the federal government – together with the nine federal states, cities and communities – on a human, human, at a correct level. Mr Klubobmann Strache, I am not saving you because you are here every time to speak and say how this government is at risk of security. It was – I remember it well and told you only last week here – a blue finance minister, it was a blue vice chancellor, responsible for the public service There it was! [[Abg. Strache: Who has been responsible since 2006? Since 2006? Who's been in the government since 2006? This is you, my colleague, 2006 to 2014!]] Yeah, yeah. You've been rationalizing 3 500 plans of the executive! And this federal government is fighting for more planning places for the police. Let's leave the church in the village! I do not think you are – Mr Steinhauser has said it, you can probably have nothing to do with it – that we also had the highest numbers of refugees ten years ago under your government participation. Let us simply make this discussion possible for humanitarian reasons, for human reasons. [[Call:Sudden]] [[Abg. Strache: “Consuming” is a new concept of art!]] I would like to invite you to do this.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e7765	The next item is Mrs. Dr.ck. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Where was the Schengen external border in 2004? It's simple! I'm inviting you to clarify this! It's simple!]] - Please, Mrs Minzig, you are speaking. Dr. Rosenkranz I'm sure you don't want to stop it.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e7810	Mr President. Estimated government members! Ladies and gentlemen. Yes, already the title that FPÖ has chosen for today's special session suggests a causality of interrelationships which is not given and which for me belongs to the category "Deep drawer". The only thing you want to achieve with the debate today is the uncertainty of the population. You obviously did not succeed in the last debate two weeks ago. You won't succeed today, no matter how aggressive or how loud your speeches are, because fact is: Austria is one of the safest countries! This is what our citizens, our entrepreneurs, but also our foreign investors and international organisations appreciate. [[Abg. Strache: You really don't learn anything about it!]] [[Abg. Strache:... Paroles, but you don't learn anything about it!]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] The fact is that Austria has been committed to the recognition of religious communities for 140 years. With an Islam share of 6.8 percent in the population, it is unlikely that Islamization, which we do not support, cannot be the case. [[Abg. Kickl: How much?]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: What was it like ten years ago?]] Therefore, a clear distinction must be made between Islam on the one hand and the military on the other. How do our well-integrated Muslim employees in the companies get them thrown into a pot with some fanatics? – I now get this feedback from them. Therefore, a clear separation: In Austria there is no place for jihadists, terrorists and extremists. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] The Minister for the Interior, but also the Minister for Justice, the Foreign Minister, the government parties are very clearly opposed to hatred. I hope that these laws will then be passed by a large majority. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Of course, in addition to the legislative measures, we also need preventive measures to promote the fight against terrorism. [[Abg. Deimek:... actual government task! That's where you sit!]] Young people, especially Muslim youths, often feel excluded in our society. They cannot see a perspective and are therefore very sensitive to all species of rat fishermen. Even such posters, as Mrs. Korun has already cut, “Daham instead of Islam”, do not contribute to further integration. Our Minister of Integration, our Minister of the Interior, has already taken very good steps – especially in the early childhood area, we are thinking only of improving German knowledge, of the compulsory kindergarten year – which will certainly soon show their positive effect. In addition, I will also be required to train until the 18th century in the government programme. Year of life very important. We have 10,000 young people each year in Austria who do not make further training, and they are naturally vulnerable to radical ideas. The potential analysis is also very important for migrant children, as they learn that they also have strengths that can be further developed professionally. Only with training and employment can young people increase their self-esteem and thus realize that violence is not a solution. Yes, the numbers of refugees are rising, and Austria has a great tradition, a great humanitarian tradition, and that is also good. But I would like to thank the Minister for the fact that she is also very much committed at European level to the fairer distribution of quotas, because only if we have a common European refugee policy can we stop towing. The focus in Austria is on a rapid process. The duration of the proceedings is short: 70 percent of the procedures are handled in six months. The Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum with the National Directorates, since 1. January 2014 is in operation, makes a significant contribution to structure the resolution of asylum movements. We are also an international model for this. There can therefore be no talk of “Asylchaos ”! In our district, Vöcklabruck district, we have many years of experience with asylum seekers, not only through the first station West. So we say "first place" and not "storage", Mr. Strache, we are always doing our job exemplaryly with 800 asylum seekers! It is also not known to me that our district, which still has six motorway exits, is more uncertain or that the crime rate is higher than in comparable districts. [[Abg. Deimek:... is not taken seriously!]] Therefore, I also believe that at the end of the day will be left: The FPÖ is an uncertainty party, and security is certainly not the USP of the FPÖ. I should therefore like to make the following motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Otto Pendl, Mr Werner Amon, colleagues: ‘The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Minister for the Interior is invited to take all measures at national and international level in order to ensure the high level of security and the high sense of security of the population.”
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e7947	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mrs Minzig is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e8008	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Aslan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e8029	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators in front of the screens and in the Hohen Haus! As SPÖ-Klubobmann Andreas Schieder mentioned today, we were at the Syrian-Turkish border last week. The picture we had in our head was completely contrary to what we saw and experienced on the spot. When we arrived in Suruç in the province of Urfa, we were told that this small town with 50,000 inhabitants had taken up more than half its population of refugees. The refugees were accommodated in non-winterly tents and in need of public buildings. Many families took refugees from Kobane into their private homes because they did not want to watch these people become homeless and starved. With us they are not even tolerated as neighbors. From the Turkish state there was only minimal support for them, unlike for Sunni-Syrian refugees. It wasn't a UNHCR on site either. The Kurdish refugees from Kobane have told me and us that they do not want to live in Diaspora because they have enough of escape and migration. They want a stabilisation of the situation so that they can return to their home country, because they have created this self-government in Kobane with hands and fists themselves. Sustainable stabilisation of the situation is only possible if regional actors are involved. We, as neutral and Western countries, can at least contribute to working together on a sustainable policy approach and thus also jointly declare ourselves ready for a political solution in these regions. This also includes the efforts of the international community and the Austrian Federal Government to put pressure on the countries that are doing business with IS that tolerate and support IS. The picture we had in Diyarbakir was also very shocking for us. There was also no UNHCR on site. There, too, refugees depended on the minimal budgetary resources of the Kurdish communities. Even more difficult was the situation of women who had been abducted by ISIS and who were able to free themselves from ISIS laboriously. Just these women and girls were then excluded from their own community and the other refugees because they had been raped by IS barbarians and, under quotations, had been “polluted”. We have to imagine this: First they flee from the war, then they are enslaved and raped and then they are separated from their own community again! They lose their hope of life and also tend to take their own life. At the Jesidic Camp, the desperate refugees were looking for contact persons. They were therefore glad that there was at all a European delegation with which they could speak, which they could also report their suffering, their despair and their disappointment, because they felt completely forgotten by the world population. They also stopped counting how many massacres they had already experienced. Yes, the alarm bells have been ringing for a long time: We urgently need a rapid, swift peace and refugee solution, and no special session that can only startle fears! [[Congratulation with Greens, SPÖ, ÖVP and NEOS]] [[Congratulations on Greens, SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The world population also looked away at Halabja, where Kurds of Saddam were gassed with biochemical weapons, where thousands of children's bodies were lying on the streets because this sweet apple smell was so pleasant outside. That was exactly that dictator Saddam who was friends with Jörg Haider. [[Abg. Wheeler: Exactly!]] It was also precisely those who looked away when thousands of people were murdered and beheaded when women were raped and enslaved. And there were exactly those who looked away, who are excited today over all the refugees. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: I think the colleague Heinzl is here...!]] For this reason, our goal must be to include more refugees in the EU and also to protect women and girls who are vulnerable to suicide. [[Abg. Kickl: (in the direction SPÖ)... once again you drive to North Korea!]] Those who want to take real responsibility in view of the difficult and escalating situation in the region and do not just want to cover up non-hazard simply need to be comprehensive, smartly thought-out and committed in the long term. In any case, we Greens will and do not want to watch. We call not only on the international community but also on the Austrian government to take responsibility. This means that we have to look at ISIS atrocities and draw attention to the victims and refugees as well. In brief, Mr Rosenkranz's speech: Democracy is at risk because there are too many right-wing majority groups! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e8121	The next item is Mrs Lintl's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e8143	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Islamism in its radical form threatens the world's liberal democracies. Boko Haram, that means: Education is forbidden! The abduction of hundreds of Christian girls who had to convert and were forced to be married shows the consequence of this fanaticism. Infringements of human rights such as mass rapes, enslavement and trafficking with women are still shown by the radicals as triumph over the unbelievers. From Nigeria via Libya, Syria, Iraq, India, Pakistan and the Philippines, radical Islamists worldwide are trying to establish a God state according to the rules of Sharia. The most cruel terrorist organization, the IS, even calls itself “Islamic State. ” Where is the call of the moderate Islamic states? What is happening in Europe, what is happening here in Austria? A survey in England shows that one in seven of the younger British citizens already has sympathy for IS. They have the highest approval among those under 25 who especially admire the courage of the IS fighters. Our Western system, with all its freedoms, presupposes a fundamental social consensus, namely that these freedoms are respected by all. But if they are used as a pretext for spreading a totalitarian ideology, this basic democratic consensus is also negated. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Bitch.]] In this sense, it is justified to ask more closely the confession of every asylum-seekers to our rule of law: is democracy really true, or is democratic rules being exploited at the end? Humanitarian aid is out of question. This is for every refugee. Austria has always made a generous contribution. But in view of radicalisation, great caution is needed, and it is precisely to document who we are taking in. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ.]] Mr Korun has already addressed how many refugees have taken up the neighbouring countries of Syria. There is a real need for generous humanitarian aid from the international community, as many refugees want to stay in the immediate vicinity of their homelands in order to be able to return after the end of the war. One thing I've been wondering: Why do the magnificently rich oil companies and kingdoms hardly take up refugees? – Instead of helping fellow believers from the neighborhood, it is obviously preferable to finance radical mosque associations or this bizarre dialogue center here in Vienna. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ.]] The victims of terrorism are forced by the protectionist asylum policy of some neighbouring countries to flee thousands of miles further to Europe. We must be aware that a perhaps not insignificant part of the part that we welcome here is also in favour of an Islamic social order. The hope that radical Muslims can be deradiated in Europe does not arise, as the example of thousands of jihad fighters coming from Europe shows. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ.]] Therefore: We want to live in peace here in Austria and in Europe – and I particularly stress this, ladies and gentlemen – together with our Muslim fellow citizens. But we also assume that these Muslim fellow citizens recognize the values of Western democracies and the secular state. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ.]] But: Security is the supreme commandment! That is why we must make every effort to ensure the internal and external security of our state. I would not like to hear from my children the accusation that we had responded too late to a clear threat! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e8237	Next, Mr Magistrate. Loacker to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e8258	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Yes, the relatively broad title of this special meeting also allows a lot of topics to be addressed. We are well aware that NEOS is concerned about access to the labour market for asylum seekers. If you look at the circumstances under which we leave people waiting for their asylum decision, you have to say: [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] We are pushing them into a just not self-elected – I would like to charge you, Mr Worm – into a not self-elected dependence on the state. [[Abg. Peter Worm: 48 days!]] One gives the people who do not allow them to work for so long, even though they were very likely to do so, a sense of uselessness. Everyone knows that longer periods of inactivity damage self-esteem. We should give these people the opportunity to gain a little more self-esteem while they are here. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] This would not only help the people themselves, but also help the Austrians in an inclusive and understanding way. There is also a party that has already tried this itself: In the country election campaign in Vorarlberg, the ÖVP has distributed asylum seekers in the area of Feldkirch Flugzettel. This is part of neighborhood aid, but then they can hack a little! I think it would be good if this field experiment could also be implemented in Vorarlberg throughout the country. The existing legislation on access to the labour market must already be regarded as cynical and eye-catching from the term ‘work market access’, because what is happening in seasonal activities is minimal. In 2013, there were 284 such seasonal permits. But, my colleague, Worm, because you asked about the numbers: ==References== On September 26, 2014, we have 26 749 people at asylum seekers in basic care. But now you do not have all of those who would, in principle, be in question as workers. Once you have to subtract those who have come in the last three months: 7 500. Then you have the Dublin cases that are there for more than three months, but you have relieved means of pushing: 500. Derogation of basic pensioners: 1 100, less recognised refugees in basic care: 800, non-removable: 2 000, including toleration, less under 16 year olds in basic care longer than three months: 3 200, less over 16-year-olds in secondary schools: 250, less than 60-year-olds in basic care: 1 100, less sick persons: 600, less asylum seekers not in basic care: 250, those who came into question as workers at all: 9 949! This is, of course, not a figure for over three million self-employed people in Austria who are now messing up the labour market structure. You have to admit that too! We must also remember, however, that by 2015, we will have to implement an EU directive which provides for effective access to the labour market for asylum seekers after a stay of nine months at the latest. This is not the first time the government is waiting to implement EU targets until the end of a period. We have had that recently; Keywords: Doctoral working time. For us, there is no doubt that access to the labour market for asylum seekers brings several benefits. He prohibits slipping into black work and illegality, he prevents the loss of skills through long non-stop and returns self-determination to asylum seekers. In cases where skilled workers have come here, the economy can use this potential. The government budget is relieved if these people can take care of themselves. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] Psychiatric diseases are reduced because of the loss of perspective. Social tensions and prejudices can reduce them. In addition, people who share in social life are more easily integrated. The fact that such a labour market opening is possible without major consequential damage has shown Germany where the entire labour market is open after three months. They argue that by doing so, wage dumping Door and gate would be opened, but that is rather the case if you push people into illegality or on the black market where they have to work for some lavish euros. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] However, since we already want this labour market, not only when the juice government goes out, we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e8343	Mr Magistrate. The motion for a resolution tabled by Loacker is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e8407	Next speaker: Mr Kunasek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e8429	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! I am glad that this special meeting is here today, because it makes it clear which party, which group is working for the population in Austria and which groups have nothing to do but operate FPÖ-Bashing here, to criminalise a party, and they do no more to solve the problem than they always blame us, ladies and gentlemen. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Mr Loacker! I wonder how this request, which you have now made, comes to the hundreds of thousands of unemployed people in Austria, who are likely to hold rather little of this idea. I am also glad that we have a clear positioning and that we stand for our Austrians, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But overall, it was also nice to see how far the refusal of reality has been done here in the house, above all by the government parties. Mr Amon! – Unfortunately, he's not in space right now. – If you feel that we stand alone here in the house and in Austria with our opinion, I can remind you of how the national Council elections went out last year in Styria. It looked like you were alone. The FPÖ was already the first. I can already prophesy to you today: If you continue this way, we will experience the same thing next year in the country election in Styria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I think you are wrong with your opinion and with your positioning here. Minister of the Interior! That I can't save you: Today, when answering the urgent question, a number of things have occurred, to which we speak of the liberals, so it cannot be. If you are unable to answer us questions such as the question of how many open asylum procedures there are still in Austria, because there is a computer change and therefore problems, I say quite openly here in this House: This is an increase in parliamentarianism and the Members in this Chamber! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, yes, there are simply facts that are not to be washed off the table. There have been 44 000 suspects of crime identified over the last five years, and yes, there can be talk of imported crime. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, if eight heads of state demand that they temporarily close the borders again, I wonder what reality you are living in here as Members. I would strongly recommend you, especially the SPÖ and ÖVP Members, once your protected residential areas, to leave your luxury homes once, in Graz am Rosenhain or in Vienna in Hietzing or in other areas, and also to talk to people. I would like to invite you to the Styria to Graz. I invite you to go through the Volksgarten one day after the intrusion of darkness. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ as well as with representatives of the Stronach team.]] I believe that it will also be clear that the Heads of State are right in these areas and that they are a little closer to people on this issue, to citizens as representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP in this House. It was addressed by the Stronach team today, and I can only repeat it: There are, of course, also situations where citizens are rightly not only afraid, but devoured. The most plausible example is probably this night and fog action in Spital am Semmering, Ms. Innenminister. Again: On Tuesday the mayor was informed that on Thursday up to 300 asylum seekers are to be transferred to the district of Steinhaus with 190 inhabitants. It is, of course, understandable that people cannot agree with this driver policy. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it would be appropriate to ensure democracy at last, including the citizens. Then perhaps the call in this area would be a little lower. But I know from the example of Styria that this is not in the interest of SPÖ and ÖVP. The fact that there is a risk of security arising from asylum homes and from asylum seekers is also evidenced by a request from you, Mrs Innenminister, from which we shall be speaking. In the last two and a half years, 200 police missions have taken place in Styria alone in the area of asylum homes, we have found a total of 20 people who have been arrested and where costs of € 100 000 have been incurred. You can't stand here and say, There's no such thing as that, there's no problem here! – Madam Minister of the Interior, these are your figures, your answers, which can also be taken seriously! The i-tumble – which has already been addressed today – is your idea, and not only the idea, but also the action taken to place asylum seekers in security areas of the executive, as is currently taking place in Salzburg, but also in Styria in the National Police Directorate. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the executive officers who are in charge of the service there are getting their heads and saying: It cannot be said that in this sensitive area, in which you, ladies and gentlemen, will find no entrance in the porter, asylum seekers will enter and go out. [[Congratulation with the FPÖ and the Abg. Hagen.]] That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr Pendl, don't worry! As long as there are such maladministrations, there will also be the FPÖ which shows these abuses. And I say quite clearly: Yes, it needs faster asylum procedures! I say: Yes, it needs a stronger asylum legislation! And I say quite clearly: Yes, criminal asylum seekers have lost their hospitality in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e8571	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kunasek is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e8629	Next speaker: Mrs Diesner-Wais. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e8651	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in Parliament! Mr Kunasek, fear has never been a good adviser! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I have to say I live in Austria and I am glad to live here, because Austria is one of the safest countries [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We from the ÖVP and the Federal Government stand for a reasonable security policy, for solidarity and for the peaceful interdependence of religions, with rights and, of course, obligations, but we are against hatred, against hetze and against radicalism. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] When we turn on the TV in the evening, we see images of terror, violence, displaced refugees, women with their children, images of terror and terror almost every day. The war in Syria and Northern Iraq makes millions of people homeless, persecuted and refugees. The wave of refugees has already gone on to us to Austria. Almost one third of the asylum seekers are refugees, and the Federal Government and the decision-makers in the countries, the individual citizens, of course face great challenges. It's a delicate subject, but it's about single-sicksales, and you have to accept them too. It is not a solution if you simply move it from place to place to another level. We have an increase of 50 percent, and there it does not help to make debt allocations. This tactic, telling someone else to do something, doesn't help. I do not want to go into the views and ideas that the FPÖ has, because the Austrians regard this as alien. We're here to solve problems, not fear. There are many positive examples where countries, private and local authorities simply accept the matter. Austria is a country that has traditionally been a humanitarian country. We're open. However, we are also in favour of a fair and fair distribution of the burdens across Europe. But we also know that Austria has a capacity limit. I'm not a social romantic. No one should underestimate the unloving effects of overboarding refugees. But it is important that we make a fair division, both across Europe and in Austria, between the countries and communities. For Austria, humanity and security are important. As I have already pointed out: Austria is one of the safest countries! And I am really opposed to insurmountable tactics, against the mixing of refugees, religions, Islamists and terrorists. Our Minister of the Interior goes, as she has already pointed out, a consistent path. This is also seen in the fact that she has invited to a summit against hatred and hetze. At this summit, the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, i.e. politicians, experts and practitioners came together and took steps to counter terrorism. I think it's also good that there is an increase in our state protection, because there are additional planning points of the executive. It's doing a lot, and that's very important. Our Minister for Foreign Affairs believes that integration and education are already starting with our young people, because this is an important foundation. In this sense, I am also confident that we can fulfil these delicate tasks, in solidarity.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e8733	The next item is the report by Mr Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e8754	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Minister! High house! Mr Strache, that is what we call a shot in our own knees, these urgent ones today. [[Abg. Stache: Probably for you!]] The tension is there to some extent out there, herb and rubble discussion – and what you are talking about or what your concern is, is actually hard to filter out. So if Mr Kickl makes a proposal next time, please think and perhaps question – and do not ask the same question again after two weeks. This is actually a disregard for the House and indisputable. [[Congratulations on Greens, SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] What I even notice from you from the Freedom Party is this increasing torment. After the Vorarlberger country elections, your Vorarlberger LandesParticipant went around with damp eyes throughout the country. No one wanted him, but he absolutely wanted to go to the government. It seems to me that this is now a fundamental problem of the Freedom Party throughout Austria: No one wants her anymore! [[Intrusions of the Abg. Bitch.]] And why don't you don't want anyone anymore? – Because of exactly this kind of policy that you have presented again today. [[Congratulations on Greens, SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: I therefore wish you a mandate so that you do not cause any harm at school!]] What we need in Austria is to merge society – and not the column. What we need is not a hustle and bustle as you do; it has already been documented several times today. We need integration of fellow citizens, and we need to say, a situation where we are dealing with asylum seekers and asylum seekers. Paint there, please, not always the devil on the wall and don't always talk about refugee waves! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] You heard the numbers. 27 000, if I remember correctly, is the current number. Remember what Austria was able to host to refugees in 1956: 180,000 in a very short time! No one has lamented because it is a matter of course that people are being admitted here in this country in distress. - It's written to you in the main book. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] That, I think, distinguishes all the parties here from your party in this House. We have very different views on what to do. But what we all agree on is that we must be careful in this process and that we must not continue pouring oil into the fire as you do, and there have also been enough examples. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] If we stick to this winery nature of FPÖ, I may refer to an article that has been published in the “standard” today. In it your colleague Bösch, who is unfortunately not present, praises the Teutonia, a right-wing student organization he himself belongs to, because of her own language. I've made it out of here. In reality, this was a mixture of confused formulations with clearly right-wing extreme background – this has been documented by a number of experts, for example, by the political scientist Reinhold Gärtner of the University of Innsbruck, just today. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] And you go and justify something like that. They polemize against the desertural monument, pretending to be responsible parties for all deserters. They conceal that this is very specific about those deserters from the German Wehrmacht who no longer wanted to take part in a criminal war and abstained from this service; what today's society has recognized in the form of a monument, and that is good! [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] My speaking time is obviously over. I would have liked to bring more examples now, such as your Vorarlberger Klubobmann Egger, who posted a letter to the reader, which you also posted on their Facebook page, which says that all Turkishs despise Austria; on which your Mr. Klubobmann Egger “How true!” posted. That's what he's supported. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] I tell you, as a teacher at my school, I know many former students who have Turkish migration backgrounds. I know a lot from the football club, and none of them despise Austria. That's your picture, that's your form of politics, and that's why you're as isolated as you are currently in Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e8913	Next, Mr Hagen. 5 minutes speaking time. The remaining speaking time of the Group is 7 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e8936	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! It's a shame that Mr Scherak of the NEOS is no longer here, because I wanted to tell him something at the beginning of my speech. He's been talking about the temporary border controls being stupid. I have to explain to him what this is, because I have the impression that he didn't understand what it was all about. Ladies and gentlemen, as an executive officer, I am a specialist in this field. I believe that these temporary border controls are very necessary in the current situation. Not only does this have to do with the dawns and with the many traveling perpetrators who, after a series of burglaries, leave our country like a thief, but it also has a tactical background. We have to introduce ourselves: We used to have crossings, the roads have led to these crossings. That is, I have a relatively small area, which I can look at, which I can well monitor, where I can carry out controls. However, under the Schengen Agreement, police must no longer directly control borders, but only in the hinterland. And there, of course, traffic routes are much further apart. So I can't control this much more centrally; of course, what happens to the offenders who want to leave our country, because the police can't be everywhere. That means I can compress it with temporary border controls. That is why the request of the liberals must be fully correct and supported. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister for the Interior spoke of the fact that 7 000 asylum seekers have become criminal. – You have to imagine this: These are the known perpetrators. Only the education rate is not even 50 percent. This reconnaissance rate, of course, refers to the known perpetrators. Now, of course, we also have a lot of unknown perpetrators who are not there. Now you can guess that's all Austrians. That's not what I'm going to do, ladies and gentlemen. So this quota will also be higher if you always come up with the 3.5 percent of all the crimes to be committed on asylum seekers. Maybe that's for the investigation. Of course, this urgent request of the liberals – I have to admit – has a huge arc, and it is of course relatively difficult to go in here in every detail. However, I would like to address something that has given me to think. Ladies and gentlemen, a few months ago I met a top diplomat who was top diplomat in the African region. This one has given me the following suggestions in a conversation, which I now want to give to the Minister of the Interior from the speaker's desk, and I have tried to do so in committee. He has told me that we should inform ourselves in Switzerland once because in Austria many asylum grounds are recognised, which are not otherwise recognised. He gave me a few examples. For example, according to his statements in Austria, if in Africa one of the medical professionals wishes to be in a village, it is considered to be a positive reason for asylum in Austria. You have to imagine that, ladies and gentlemen! This curse will of course also follow him to Austria. Otherwise, such a thing will not be recognized any more, except in Austria. The second example: Often a forced marriage of African women is indicated as an asylum ground, but if you move on to three villages in Africa, you will find no more human beings. This too is no longer recognised as a reason for asylum elsewhere. So I can only recommend that you go to Switzerland and find out how it is going there. This diplomat has told me something interesting, namely that in Austria about 100 000 people live from the asylum system, the NGOs promoted by the public sector, lawyers and so on. 100 000 people live well from Austrian tax funds through the asylum system. That is why this is being done, ladies and gentlemen. You have to break that on your tongue. These are not my words, but these are the words of a top diplomat. And then I'd like to focus on something else. Yesterday I spoke with the Constitutional Court President Holzinger in the Constitutional Committee. I asked him – who was there knows that – why so many asylum applications are being submitted in Austria or why the procedures take so long and if he has already informed himself of his colleagues in other European countries, where this goes much faster or where there are not so many applications. Dr. Holzinger answered the following – Mrs. Minister, these are the words of the Constitutional Court President; it is even in the Minutes, you can read it –: In contrast to Austria, the legal protection in Switzerland and Germany is not so high. Therefore, the procedures in Austria are longer and more asylum applications are being submitted. Ladies and gentlemen, this should make us think about it, and we should consider whether it would be useful in the field of asylum to create the same standards across Europe, so that the burden is more justly divided. I am already in favour of good legal protection in Austria, but it cannot be that we bear the main burden and the other countries are rubbing their hands. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e9009	I call Mr Sieber. The remaining speaking time of the Group is 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e9031	Mr President. Minister! Minister! High house! Religious freedom is a constitutionally established fundamental right, but in a rule of law such as Austria, it is true to observe clear rules of play in the sense of a peaceful common life. If individual groups threaten this peaceful cohabitation by trying to carry conflicts from outside into the country, then there is a border. We will not accept alternate conflicts! If there are violent attacks under the cover of freedom of the congregation, a measure has been achieved that we cannot tolerate. We have no place to use violence and we must pursue it with all the hardness. This also concerns the organizers of demonstrations. The images that the media deliver to us daily from the focal points, from war, terror and violence from all over the world are frightening and dramatic at the same time. Hundreds of thousands of people are on the run due to war. Giving war refugees accommodation, protection and security is not only an obligation under international law, but also a high tradition in Austria. What is not to be accepted is that currently 10 European states account for around 90 percent of refugees and asylum seekers. There must be a Europe-wide shared responsibility and aliquota division. I would like to thank our Minister, Mrs Johanna Mikl-Leinner, for her commitment to a system of this kind at European level and for being always ready to put her finger on this wound. Thank you, Mrs. Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e9073	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Scherak, colleagues on European solidarity in dealing with asylum seekers. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Darmann, ladies and gentlemen, on the implementation of temporary border controls. [[The members of the FPÖ shall rise from their seats.]] The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of [[The members of the FPÖ are taking their seats again.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] - Please calm down! As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. The votes to be used are in the House of Deputies and bear the name of the Members as well as the name 'Yes', which are the grey ballots, or 'No', which are the pink ones. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would ask those Members who are in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Darmann, fellow Members, voted yes, those who vote against to throw “No” vote in the urn. Please be careful to throw only one vote mark! I now ask the rapporteur, Mr Lueger, to begin the call for name; Mr Gahr will replace them later. - Please, Mrs. Writer.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e9178	The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make the number of votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. The meeting will be suspended for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e9219	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote: 154. Of which ‘Yes’ votes: 42; ‘No’ votes: 112. The motion for a resolution by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Darmann, ladies and gentlemen, on the implementation of temporary border controls, is therefore rejected. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Anger; Belakovich-Jenewein; Darmann, Deimek, Dietrich, Doppler, Ertlschweiger; Franz, Fuchs; Of a width of not more than 1 mm, of Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hafenecker, Hagen, Haider, Hauser, Hofer, Hübner; Karlsböck, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Kunasek; Lintl, Lugar Robert; Mölzer, Mühlberghuber; Rebaur Kathrin; Podgorschek; smoke Walter, Riemer, Rosary Barbara, Rosary Walter; Schellenbacher, Schenk, Schmid Gerhard, Stefan, Steinbichler, Strache; themesl; Refusal torphere, winter, worm Peter; Singer. Members voted with ‘No’: Alm, Amon, Antoni, Aslan, Aubauer, Bacher Walter, Bayr, Brosz, Brunner, Buchmayr, Bures; Cap; Darabos, Diesner Wais, perforation; Ecker, Ehmann, El Habbassi; Fichtinger Klaus Uwe, Fekter, Fichtinger Angela; Gahr, Gerstl, Gessl-Ranftl, Greiner Karin, Grillitsch, Groiß, Grossmann, Gusenbauer-Jäger; Hakel Elisabeth, Hammer Michael, Hanger Andreas, Haubner, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Himmelbauer, Hofinger Manfred, Holzinger, Huainigg; Jank, Jarmer, Jarolim; Karl, Katzian, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Köchl, Königsberger-Ludwig, Korun, Krainer Kai Jan, Krist, Kucharovich, Kucher, Kuntzl, Kuzdas Lettenbichler, light picker, lipitsch, loacker, lopatka, lueger Angela; Matznetter, Maurer, Mayer, Meinl-Reisinger, Moser, Muchitsch, Mückstein, Muttonen; Obernosterer, kilnauer, ottenschlager; Pendl, Pfurtscheller, Pirklhuber, Plessl, Preiner, Prince; Rädler, Rasinger, Rauch Johannes, Rossmann; Schieder, Schittenhelm, Schmid Julian, Schmid Julian, Schmid Julian, Schönegger, Schopf, Schultes, Schwentner, Sieber Norbert, Singer Johann, Spindelberger, Steinacker, Steinhauser, Strasser; Tamandl, daughters; sub-railers; Vavrik, Vogl; Walser, Weninger, Wimmer, Minsig, Wittmann, Wivener, Worm Gisela; Yılmaz; Zakostelsky, Zinggl.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e9402	I now ask Members to take their seats again for further voting. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Alm, colleagues on the financing of King Abdullah bin Abdulaziz Centre for Interreligious and Intercultural Dialogue. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strache, fellow Members, on the need to intensify the asylum system. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Pendl, Mr Amon, Mr Andriessen, on the maintenance of the high level of security in Austria. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is accepted by the majority. (E 51.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Loacker, colleagues on access to the labour market for asylum seekers. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kunasek, colleagues, on no accommodation of asylum seekers in police facilities. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. [[18:37:37]] Short debate on the response to the question 2118/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e9487	We are now entering the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Justice with the order number 2118/AB. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with a speaking time of 10 minutes for the first speaker. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. I now ask Mrs Moser, as an applicant for the request to open the debate. The speaking time is 10 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e9522	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors! 700 000 € and the question: “Where was my performance?” – you all know the “Nordbergstraße” case from the media. All of you now have my question on the bank: What is the state of the investigation, the state of the procedure? What steps does the resort take? Are there new partial aspects? Who's accused now? What does it look like now? And you all have the answer from the judicial department on your banks. It's full three lines long, and you'll find out the way: The procedure was terminated! Mr Minister, we have already talked about this, but you could be so kind to explain to the public why the procedure has been terminated here in Parliament, our honourable Member, and also to the public. It is a clamorosis, a very prominent procedure. This is a procedure in which you and I are often asked on the road, in public transport or also in private rounds: When is something finally happening? What about our rule of law? What about our justice? Doesn't everyone have the same right? Is it possible for some to judge? Against this background, Mr Minister, your three lines in the answer to the question are really a little thin and dry. In my opinion, the Causa “Nordbergstraße” is not just about a cavalier crime. It's about commission payments and that's why I can understand this now or not, I miss the details in the background – that apparently the soup – I say it so loose now – too thin In order to file an indictment, the investigating prosecutor concluded: Yeah, we're setting up! I suppose the prosecutor's office has acted perfectly correctly, even the department has cared for it, it's all right. I accept this in favour of justice, in your favour and perhaps also in the sense of legal functionality in Austria, but: Why is it not explained on the basis of which facts are set? Why do we learn from Members just because I ask what's going on is that the procedure has been terminated? Why is there no offensive information policy on the part of the prosecutor's office in the sense of the reputation of the judiciary, in the sense that we have the same right for all, in the sense of dealing with correct transactions? – I am missing this offensive information policy, and I am particularly missing a very correct answer to the question as to why this has now been put. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is the first reason why I requested this meeting of your answer. Perhaps you can explain to us again what the background is. We have now learned about the research of the journalists, there is the problem that a major witness is no longer in a position to be in health. On the other hand, we have learned that the increase in the value of the Nordbergstraße property of 14 million within a short time is somehow justified. – Tastes whether that is true or not! We trust justice – but only in part, I must say honestly! We would trust her more if we had been given a concrete statement by you in this reply to the question as a statement of reasons, which is also comprehensible. That was the first part. The second part – I did not just ask for the “Nordbergstraße” regarding information, the Causa real estate, the subject of the investigation committee, has several sites, has several, so to speak, act-horizontes and several topics – the second major topic of course is the sale of the state-owned housing companies, these over 61,000 dwellings. Since 2009, there have been numerous investigative steps. Since 2009 – and this bothers the people, you, Mr Minister, will know from conversations as much as I do, that is bothering people: this long trial period! My first criticism is, as has been said, the lack of information from the judiciary, my second criticism is the long period of proceedings. I asked myself what this could be about. I know it's a complex story. It is about a commission, in this case not €700 000, but – a little higher – a commission of about 9.1 million, which goes over refined company structures from Vienna to Cyprus, to Astropolis. It then continues to Delaware, a wonderful U.S. state with very favourable tax conditions. From there, account Omega, it goes back to Liechtenstein, where you can also set up good accounts to cover up black money or other commission money. In Liechtenstein at the Hypo Investment Bank, there are then three accounts over 7 million, since one of the players now has 2 million as a participation for himself. The rest of the 7 countries are just there and are wonderfully tripped, as we read in the media again and again. The account “Karin” is attributed to Plech, the account “Natalie” is to be the Meischberger share, and the account “Walter” with the very well-known number 400 and then 815 is, the prosecutor assumes to be credited to our former finance minister. The Causa is very complex – Liechtenstein, Switzerland, necessary foreign legal aid – so I also understand that it takes longer. I understand the length of the This is partly because I know that complex procedures often involve young prosecutors who have not yet worked in this way. Then it'll take longer. But I also know – and therefore I do not understand so correctly – that in the case of clamorous cases the work of prosecutors is so difficult because they have to report constantly. I have recently been listed from the public prosecutor's side, how long and how extensive the report chain is. Let this break on the tongue once: The investigating prosecutor – a young person – must, if he takes a next step, so if, for example, he wants to do house searches or start telephone hearings, deliver a report and request this action, and I am now extra-checking it so that I don't make a mistake – first of all with the group leader of the public prosecutor's office. He shall forward the report to the head of the investigating Public Prosecutor's Group. That's the lower level, and that's three times. Then comes the middle plane. The report is addressed to the speakers of the Supreme Prosecutor's Office, and the speaker reports to the Chief Prosecutor's Office. That's two on the middle level. Then the whole thing goes further into the ministry, to the speakers of the direction department, the department head – that is, second instance – and the section head in the ministry is then the third. Now we're expecting together: Three and two are five and three is eight. So we're already at the eighth level. Then we're going to the cabin. In the cabinet the speaker first ends up, then he goes to the head of the cabinet and then – in clamorous cases – to the Minister. [[Federal Minister Brandstetter shakes his head.]] - Or not. You shake your head, but normally this could land with you, I say now, carefully. According to your proposal for reform and your provisional regulation, there is still the Wise Council. If we count all of this together, we're at the clamorose number 12. That's a dozen, and I say the dozen is full, the dozen is too much. The reporting obligation is the main reason why complicated procedures, clamorosis procedures span far too long. I should like to point out by now that we are soon to have mid-November, and in mid-November there is another clamorosis procedure, which has been in the ministry for a year. For a year! But I'm not saying what, it should be a little bit of a tension. It's not the BUWOG. The Causa BUWOG is only since June, July. I know that this is an extensive act of several hundred pages, an extensive project report, but that it did not come to the ministry until June, because the investigation steps in the years before have been made difficult by the reporting obligation. Mr Minister, you have been so kind and have also announced publicly that you want to make this reporting obligation a reform, so I am not just asking you: When will the decision at last be taken in the ministry, in the department, about whether or not to raise charges?, but I also ask, and that is very important to me per futuro: When to Remember Are you going to end this form of reporting, which I have briefly listed in twelve stations, and replace it with a more sensible one? [[President Hofer gives the bell sign.]] Now the last aspect – thank you for the lute – I have already mentioned it, namely the Council of Wise Men. Mr. Minister, I'm of the opinion either hope or drop. Either the Minister is entitled to refer, or he is not, and there is a federal attorney or institutions such as in other European countries. But to cast the minister's right of guidance, to conceal it by a wise council, which again depends on the institution of the ministry.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e9631	Please put to the end, Mrs Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e9646	That's not a mature performance for me. Mr Minister, I expect – this is the final final sentence, separated by an addition to the previous one – that your performance in answering requests will become more extensive, correct and, so to speak, more professionally competent in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e9677	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Brandstetter has now been reported to speak. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e9701	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Of course, I would also like to refer specifically to what Mrs Moser said, which is why I am going to depart from my speech manuscript, but I do not want to miss the opportunity – and it is the first opportunity for me to do so – to thank those opposition parties warmly for the constructive participation that took place on 23 March. Here in plenary in October, we voted in favour of the abolition of the 1920 ban on overlap and thus in a very constructive way secured the constitutional majority for the removal of these completely absurd regulations which have very hindered us in the field of court reform. I'm grateful for that. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would like to thank the Greens, the NEOS and the Stronach team. Thank you very much, this is constructive opposition policy. This also applies to what Mrs Moser said now. Your criticism, ladies and gentlemen, is really understandable to me, I must say. Yes, one has a right to get really appropriate reasons and also to find out why and for what reasons decisions have been made in the way they have been made, especially in such clamorous Causen. I have said from the outset that it is necessary to find, in the sense of confidence in the judicial system, instruments to ensure that there is no reason for suspicions in the direction that confidence in justice would not be guaranteed. You, ladies and gentlemen, said a sentence in which I was torn by a bite: We only partially trust justice. – We need to change that, and that is up to me to change that. I want you to say one day in the hall: Now we trust the whole of justice! There is a lot to be done for this, and that is what you are right to do, and there is also a reason for it. But what I want to tell you is that there are already reasons you should know. I would like to point out in advance that – I have only 10 minutes like you – the parliamentary question concerning real estate business, which one could certainly have been able to complement in a simpler way, and for that I am available at any time, which is on 22 February. In the light of its explicit wording, it was introduced on the basis of procedures which are ‘current’. ==References====External links== In July 2014, it came to pass, and that is the point, that two defendants were inability to hear for health reasons. In such a case, we have always held it that way, and I also think it is reasonable that we assume that there are particularly legitimate interests. That is why we did not want to mention any names in this respect, because otherwise we might have been able to close names by concluding the nature of the procedure, namely the termination of the procedure, and we did not want to do so. Perhaps we were a little too careful on the point, which is already right, but it does not change that of course the reasons for the decision as it has fallen were absolutely given. We are also working on improving communication on the outside at all. You always have to do that. There is certainly much to be improved, and we want to do so. Just me, and I really have to say that, understand this very well and know that justice is living by the trust that you put in her. That's it. And even if, as I have always said, it is a problem of appearance and it is totally unrealistic that the Minister of Justice in any form would be unlawful to intervene in a procedure – that is totally unimaginable – it was only the possibility that from my point of view was always suboptimal. I have already seen and always said this before I take over the function that I can now exercise, also publicly. That is why we are in the process of finding something better than the right of guidance in the present form. Before I can say anything about this, it is absolutely a point on the second point that you, Mrs Moser, have also mentioned, namely the long procedure in the BUWOG procedure. – The two facts, which were employed, were part of a much wider subject-matter complex. Keywords BUWOG, this is a matter complex, which will also be assessed by the Council of Wise Men. We are talking here about a very comprehensive project report, several hundred pages, and of course this also needs to be looked at and reviewed accordingly by the relevant specialist bodies. And I would like to say one thing: These many instances, ladies and gentlemen, which you have now listed, are not in the form. Why? – These are cases that have been dealt with by the economic and corruption prosecutorship – no, no – and it has no reporting obligation between them at all. [[Abg. Moser: Yes, now!]] Watch out! It cannot happen at all that any steps in between must be reported. We have here thanks to God an extremely limited reporting obligation. According to the current legal situation, it only has to report at the end of the process. This is an important point, and this is also exactly my answer to your question, which we want to do in terms of reporting obligations. In any case, what should come out of my view – I say quite openly – is a reduction in the reporting obligation according to the model of the WKStA. And the answer to your question: What do we do about these long procedural periods? – Yes, in certain areas we actually have a problem with the duration of the procedure, there it is just too long. Not generally, in the majority of cases not at all, but especially in these particularly public and clamorous cases, as you have mentioned, ladies and gentlemen, it is very important to make clear on the one hand what decisions are being made for which reasons, and on the other hand to ensure that the procedures do not take too long. That's why we developed the WKSTA model. That is why, and you know that, we have done so much in the area of WKStA, with our own experts, with the prior limited reporting obligation so that the procedures can be speeded up there. Nor is it – and I would also like to say this on the occasion – that there are any delays in completion, especially not in my area, really not at all. We are really careful that this can be done quickly. The Council of Wise Men in the current form is working according to generally abstract standards that we wanted from the very beginning. I didn't want it to depend on me and my decision whether a case would come to the wise council. I wanted to know that these are generally abstract standards, and that is the case with the January 2014 decree. All that has so far been reviewed by the Council of Wise Men, I believe, at least, that confidence in justice has been strengthened. That worked well too. On the occasion: Especially in cases dealt with by the WKSTA, there is something to be considered, which many do not know – I understand it too, that is a regulation in the StPO, which is too little known –: All procedural settings of the WKStA must also go to the legal protection officer so that he can look at it again. So, of course, it was also in the facts of Nordbergstraße and City-Tower mentioned by you. That's the way it was. That is to say, the WKStA has proposed procedural setting in these sub-facts – the major fact is still coming, that is in preparation and processing – and the next instance, the Upper State Prosecutor’s Office in Vienna, has joined the opinion of the WKStA, as well as the Federal Ministry of Justice. Because never thought of it, nor was there any intention of giving a direction here, nor did it come to the Council of Wise Men. It then went to the Legal Protection Officer once again, and it has seen no reason at all to doubt this decision and its sufficient reasoning. It remains Your criticism point – that, I have to say, is understandable to me – perhaps you could or should have communicated better publicly. I have explained why it was more defensive, because it is also about the legitimate interests of persons who have been excluded from the procedure for health reasons. That's what I wanted to say. I can assure you that we will continue to do everything we can, even as far as the main facts are concerned, to complete the procedures as soon as possible. But it is a great complex of matters, and it takes a certain amount of time to actually achieve the level of quality that one should of course have in such cases. But we do believe that it is so far now that it can certainly not take too long. I've taken the media from you that you think it should be done as well as by the end of the year. I can only say that all those who are concerned really do everything to make it go as fast as possible. I hope, Mrs Moser, that I could at least relativize your concerns. As I said, there are also easier possibilities than a plenary session to come to additional information, but no question, that is your good right. Although I had to stop my visit to the prison in Upper Austria, this hurt me a bit, but I will continue it at other times, because it is also important. But once again, in short: Yes, the reasoning could have been more detailed, but there were really good reasons why it was not more detailed in this particular case. Everything else, ladies and gentlemen, will hopefully develop in such a way that we will be able to convince you that, from your point of view, justice can be trusted not only partially, but entirely. – Thank you for the time being.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e9748	The speaking time of the Members who have now spoken shall be 5 minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I call Mr Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e9772	Mr Federal Minister, I believe that the spirit of the Committee on Justice is also something you have presented here today. And when Mr Moser spoke to you with most of her speech out of the soul, it is actually a step in the right direction, and I believe that we can certainly improve all of these things that have been addressed together. We have to say that the answer, which is the subject of this debate, has been made somewhat unloving in a rather atypical way. In this respect, I think it is also understandable that we should be more and more concerned with this. And the topic is one that is of course already interested in the public – both in the interested person and also in the less interested, also in the professional public: Why are procedures, which have found a significant amount of media echo, discontinued? To explain what the reason for this is, of course, has something for itself, because you think otherwise: Well, obviously, it's someone's been judge again. Mr Federal Minister, you have already mentioned this: The question of the string of instructions will certainly be a matter. There are currently different views, but I believe that even the fact alone – you have once announced this – that the transmission of reports is significantly reduced, that only one final report, but no more interim reports, will also change something on the one hand the self-understanding of the authorities, the public prosecutors, and on the other hand, on the other hand, the way in which the prosecutors pursue and how the climate as a whole is designed to improve the rule of law. I think you have to say here, too, that we still have too few prosecutors. If one looks at who represents all sides of the prosecutor's office in which proceedings, then it is not feasible, it is not manageable, and no man of ours could do it by himself: When you get into the room of an economic attorney, the boxes are stormed up. I am always admiring the fact that in all this abundance, with such a variety of files, one can still proceed accordingly. I think you have to fix that. It's not your fault, it's your predecessor's. The WKStA has been set up with a number of 40 people – I think of more than 40 people – and, I believe, we have been setting up for two years with a number of seven prosecutors. I mean, of course, there is the impression that perhaps one is not interested in the extent to which this is necessary. It is therefore appropriate to take appropriate measures here. [[Federal Minister Brandstetter: Now we have upgraded!]] Now it has been highly upgraded. These follow-up effects are coming now, and in so far as I believe that we are on a very good path here. As far as the question itself is concerned, you have to keep in mind, of course, that this also has a historical side. The interesting thing on the historical side is that it has not yet been assessed, so in particular how the group of Grassers has done here. Most recently, in the “FORMAT” the thoughts of a neutral observer were rereadable, like that of someone from the prosecutor’s office and is now presented, and of course this is very interesting. I was also in the Committee of Inquiry, like many others here, and in that respect, one case or another is not quite understood by the public prosecutor's office. But it's not up to us to practice criticism here. There are always reasons for everything. It is important, I believe, only transparency that we always know: [[Abg. Moser: A good answer is very important!]] How is it done? And: Is this the same way of dealing with all citizens? Otherwise, I think there are interesting times. In my opinion, what we need to communicate more and where we probably need more from politics is the behaviour, in particular Liechtenstein and Switzerland, which have also improved, in seeking legal assistance. I do not have the impression that there is cooperation from a legal point of view, but that a course is also being taken by Liechtenstein, with which it benefits its “site advantage” – according to the motto: we do not pass on any information, and therefore, please: Door open!, tax refugees and tax sinners are welcome to us! I hope that this will come to an end in Europe very slowly. But overall, I think we're on a very good path here. The Justice-Tower, you have to say, is of course a complete madness and continues to tear the justice out of the bag continuously. The Riemergasse is empty. The The same is the case at the Jugendgerichtshof. So what at that time – that was around 2002, 2003; Böhmdorfer was at the time on the row – it was still a real damage to justice. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e9822	Mrs Tamandl has the floor. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e9843	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, we are dealing here with an extraordinary answer to the question, as I am perfectly right, Mrs Moser. However, I believe that Mr Brandstetter, when he was acting as Minister of Justice, said that he would do everything he could to restore confidence in justice. And I believe that if, in some cases, we agree on data protection and say that it may not be a matter for the public, then we often get excited when any questioning information or charges come to the public, and say: Please, how can it be and how can it be? I also believe that in these so-called clamorous cases you have referred to, the population may feel that there is a lot to be taken away. This is not at all a question that maybe there should be a little faster work or could be done. But one thing must not be forgotten: that these people who are in this way in the public – former ministers, former politicians, former economic bosses – also have a right to data protection and to safeguard their privacy. Quite honestly, if I read in the newspaper who has issued a certificate to the former Minister of Finance Grasser that he has been infected with pneumonia, I must honestly say that does nothing about it, and that does not improve confidence in justice. That doesn't matter at all. I would like to give two more examples, since I was also in the Committee on Inquiry, because the health status of two people has also been addressed. You yourself were the chairman of this committee of inquiry, and we have worked very hard in the matter of the more often, but one thing, I think, was clear – and there were all political groups in the Committee of Inquiry and also you as chairman: When we found out to a person that the state of health did not correspond to the way we imagine it, we made a request, first of all, that there is no public question, because it simply serves personal protection. And we've also seen that the survey doesn't do anything at all. But these are things that you don't necessarily have to make public, that there are such diseases or that there are some people who are affected by them. Another example was a former chief of cabinets who collapsed in the committee and whose family then made a missing report. Even with these persons, you don't need to know what God is publishing. I believe that the most important thing is to know, in such procedures, and especially in procedures that are effective in the public sector, where the public is very interested, how transparent the procedure is being carried out, whether convictions are made, why they are not carried out, if they are not carried out, very much need to pay attention to all these things. I believe, in order to conclude what I have started with, that the Minister of Justice wants, and he has today also announced this, in any case shortening the procedures, he would definitely like to ensure the rule of law, and he would like at least that confidence in justice has been restored. But one thing is clear: We can't call for data protection if it fits us – and if it doesn't fit us, we can't sue data protection. In this sense, I believe that it is also necessary to discuss such responses in the context of a short debate in order not to leave the accusation in the room that the Minister might not have made a correct answer to the question.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e9891	Mr Dr. Rosenkranz came to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e9913	Mr President. Federal Minister! Inputs: One thing we must not overlook now, namely that we are the legislator here and not the case law. The Federal Minister said, of course, that the question could have been answered differently. Just, Mrs Moser, you could have put the question differently. For example, if you had asked, with a small addition, If procedures had already been initiated, and if so, on what basis?, that would probably have been contained. In concrete terms, you did not address it, and the Minister said: Well, I'm sorry I didn't do this task in any form. – But he meant, of course, that could have been different. What bothers me a little bit is that it's always just about the clamorous things that the interest of the media focuses on. There are so many criminal cases, all of which are of interest! And will it now come to pass that the question of Parliament's right to interpolate – and in my opinion the crux – in the various areas – I am now addressing the cultural area, for example, now that we have a request from the judicial sector – is treated differently, even depending on the place of residence, with different intensity? In fact, Parliament as a whole, perhaps within the framework of a presidential or whatever, should say how we really want it to be. [[Abg. Moser: I've done that many times!]] There are also many different opinions from the area regarding the question of where data protection begins, where it stops and the like. What I do not want anyway is for Parliament to interfere too much in the work of the judicial authorities, the investigating authorities. This was also clear from the Committee of Inquiry. And the Committee of Inquiry also applies: Although there are political “condemnations”, under quotations – the question whether, for example, the Justice Tower was actually the ideal and the yellow of the egg and whether it was politically happening or not, that the Riemergasse, which was partially renovated by years from the Schilling period, was now empty and not sold, that is, the Parliament, which can judge the parties – whether there is also a criminal context, we may suspect, but it will decide anyway, Mrs Moser, another authority, if one could say something more if one could, under the grounds of a procedure. What Mr Jarolim said was the interesting thing: Trust in justice would be best achieved by ensuring that the relevant prosecutors are actually equipped with the necessary staff so that they can work efficiently. To this end, it should be noted: To do this, you have to find the appropriate people and also have the corresponding budget. But one thing, Mrs Moser, I have not fully understood now, and that actually sounds to me like a kind of undertone what you have said in connection with the reporting system. You've noticed so fluffy: There are these young prosecutors, and they always have to report, and if they want to make a phone call, they have to report. – Normally, the Greens are the ones who, when it comes to telephone hearings or other things, are always very sensitive and say that it should not be so easy for anyone to intervene in fundamental and freedom rights! So here we are already because this has its orderly path when one intervenes in these fundamental rights. And now to these young prosecutors: These are actually people who have a very good training. And because you're talking about the young prosecutors: In my view, I cannot connect with it anything devaluing, on the contrary, those who are hungry, who are really full of it, who in the truest sense of the word “blut lick” – under quotation marks – who want to make careers that are diligent and so on. So I'm very happy if this may get young prosecutors and not perhaps a prosecutor who's just before retirement and said: [[Abg. Wheeler: Sharpmaker!]] Well, the two months until the pension I'm not going to do much anymore! [[Abg. Wöginger: But this is also an understatement!]] I am rather glad that there are such young and committed prosecutors in the authorities attacking this. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] Therefore, I believe that the judicial authorities are actually doing everything, no matter where they are placed to help break through the law and justice. Just like an old proverb says: The mills of justice often grind slowly – but when they grind, then very small. And Al Capone, too, was caught not by the smoking gun, but only by a financial mistake.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e9984	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Steinhauser. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e10005	Mr. Justice Minister! I can still remember how you became a minister about a year ago. At that time, as one of the first demands made to you, you have made that which you have called for as a professor, namely the abolition of the leadership of the Ministry of Justice, now also implement as a Minister of Justice. And I have to admit, I was quite surprised at the time because you just said: That's what we do. That's what we're looking at. I'm still on what I said as a professor. – I admit, I did not expect that at the time, and I found that refreshing that you continue to draw this line. But, as it is in politics, someday the hour of truth comes, and the words are measured by actions. And we're now approaching this time when we're going to judge you. I believe that this will be a crucial question, whether you will hold on to what you said a year ago, even now when the persistent forces take hold, and that is what we hear. It is heard that in this working group on the reform of the law of the law, people who do not want to abolish this are mostly sitting in it, and that the report may go in a different direction than you thought of it at the time. I'm excited if you're looking at these persevering forces – whatever motives you see that way; I don't want to say that they're just negative motives, it's going to be seen differently there – whether you're opposed to this and you're going through your line or whether you're choking in. I therefore think this is a particularly exciting question because you have announced many reforms and how seriously you think about reforms. This is, as it were, the first major question of reform on which we shall measure you. If you say now that the Council of Wise Men would have scattered all the concerns, then I don't see that at all. Let your employees lift the press mirror for setting Meischberger! I don't mean what the opposition may have commented. Let me give you the comments! There's been the wise men's council back then. Of course, this has been seen negatively in connection with the tip of the direction. Of course, there have been speculations again, whether this could be politically motivated. I do not think that the Meischberger case is inconvenient, because there was no instruction at the time, and that is why I believe that – if it is wrong, correct me – was not covered by the Council of Instructions. Only, we have two seeming problems: Once we have a problem of appearance, we have a point of order. Then they say, "No, no, no, no, no, no, He's given the instruction because he wanted something politically! – And the second seeming problem is: If a political clamorosis and delicate causa is stopped, and the Minister of Justice does not give any direction, as some demand, then one also says: Well, he should have given an instruction! – That means we are always in this seeming problem. The most difficult case was Faymann – no matter what the minister Karl did back then. She gave the instruction, and it said: This is politically motivated! [[Abg. Wöginger: We already have it!]] If she had not given the instruction at the time, the opposition would probably have said: Well, that's where she should have given an instruction! There's not everything there's going to be! – So the Faymann case shows exactly how difficult the problem is to solve. And there is only one solution: taking such decisions out of the political daily business and taking the lead in the Ministry of Justice. Then this is from the day-to-day business outside, and then a process has a different acceptance. Of course, we need to talk about the question of controlling a new tip of direction, because there can be no state in the state that is not responsible to anyone. That's what we need to solve. We will also discuss what good access is. I believe that Parliamentary control rights should also be maintained in relation to such a summit. Second point: Reporting obligation. You've already announced reforms. On the example of this case, I find the reporting obligation a lot absurd. It is said that there is a need for reporting in clamorous cases, because the Minister of Justice must be informed if he is asked. Now he is asked – medial, parliamentary – and the Minister of Justice says: I'm not allowed to say anything, because maybe this is about personal rights. – This can even be true, it only shows that the system of clamorous cases is again questionable in the explanatory statement. And this reporting obligation on the clamorosis cases indirectly creates a two-class justice because it means that people of public interest are treated differently from Maxi Huber because the stop is not clamoros enough. You also need to see this problem. In principle, I welcome the fact that the reporting obligation is limited, as you have said – in the case of a new model, it must be thought through, but the problem remains with another tip of direction – that only more is reported about attitudes or charges. I also think this is the right thing to do, because the reporting obligation of course means a lot of time loss, but also creates the danger of unfounded jobs. I don't want to put anything on my own, but: When this runs over ten stations, it takes forever, and of course, the danger is great – the last sentence – that somewhere will send out that a house search is planned. [[President Hofer gives the bell sign]] Minister! We measure you by your reforms and by the implementation of your announcements, and this would be a new tip of direction in the Federal Ministry. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e10048	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e10069	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! After the logic of the political groups, I would not be in a position to do so. That surprised me now. [[Call the ÖVP: Is there a political logic with you?]] The somewhat thin response that Dr. Moser has treated very graciously in her quiet manner for my taste must be seen in front of an experience, and I would like to describe it now. We were not yet in Parliament when this committee of inquiry, which was turned off, was there, and I have been following this as a media consumer. And there's the feeling that there's no interest in getting things brought to light. If there are individuals and parties responsible for government here, they have responsibility for taxpayers' money, and in this way they must be handled with particular caution and must attach particular importance to the fact that not even the appearance arises that the taxpayer's euro would not be handled with care. This appearance of careful handling will also have an impact on the confidence that Mr Moser has raised: that confidence in justice, the vast majority of the population, unfortunately, is missing. It is not possible for the judicial system itself to do anything about it. As a spectator from the outside, you have the impression that it always smells like the same ones, they are always the same names that “circling around. ” How many procedures have there been with the Karl-Heinz Grasser, and why does it always come out to you?- Oh, my God! – People ask this question. There seems to be a system of favoring a system of personal friends that is located in the darkest circle of the former ÖVP peak. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] And that's where the citizen asks himself: Any small businessman who pays his SVA contributions a little too late will be put to death. They can't look as quickly as they can, they have a bankruptcy request on their necks, but there's nothing going on with those people who seem to have systematically thrown the euro past the taxpayer. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wheeler.]] The citizen then takes a system of structural corruption and I would just like to give you a few words to make you understand the overall image of the citizen: Blaulicht-Affaire, flu protection masks, ÖVAG, Telekom, funded homepage, Hochegger, Meischberger, tax-saving self-treatment of Mr. Grasser, Hypo, Eurofighter, AKH, BUWOG. And then it comes, that was expressed by colleague Dr. Jarolim, yes, there the responsible officials stormed up boxes of files, and I realize that then more labor is needed in the relevant prosecutors. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wheeler.]] But why does the Federal Government not ensure that sufficient resources are available there? There we are again at the appearance: One gets the feeling that the Federal Government is not concerned that these authorities have enough equipment to ensure that the Federal Government is not concerned that there is enough manpower there to quickly, quickly and completely expose and clean all these cleaners. [[Abg. Wheeler: Wendehals!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lettenbichler.]] That is why this hygiene factor, which creates confidence in justice, which all of us want and we all need, is lacking in order for the system to function wisely and well and has the acceptance of citizens. [[Abg. Wieldler: Wendehalse!]] And this requires a lot of transparency and, of course, it also needs more detailed answers to which one does not slip, because the question was not asked in the same way as Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz had asked. With regard to this transparency, it is hopefully only a matter of time until this government also implements it.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e10202	I'm giving... The debate is closed. - I'm a little confused by the call. [[19:24:18]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2014-11-05-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00048_d7e10223	I am still announcing that self-employed applications 751/A(E) to 763/A(E) have been tabled at today's meeting. Questions 2979/J to 3005/J have also been received. The next meeting of the National Council, held on Wednesday, 19 May. November 2014, 9 a.m., is envisaged, will be convened in writing. This meeting is closed.
