ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e4269	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I'll open the 40. Meeting of the National Council, which is based on a sufficiently supported request in accordance with § 46 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure. The unreaded parts of the Official Protocol of 39. Meeting of the 2nd meeting of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, of the Committee on Economic and Deputies Dr. Wittmann, Mag. Lettenbichler, Tamandl, MMag. DDr. Fuchs, Kickl, Maurer, Dr. Mückstein, Mag. Musiol, Mag. Vavrik and Mag. Hauser. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e4300	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: The Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management Dipl.-Ing. Andrä Rupprechter is represented by the Federal Minister for Finance Dr. Johann Georg Schelling, Federal Minister for Europe, Integration and External Affairs Sebastian Kurz by the Federal Minister for Justice Dr. Wolfgang Brandstetter. [[10:19:26]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e4348	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[10:19:42]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e4709	The parliament club of the team Stronach has in accordance with § 74a para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure ask the self-employed person to put forward Amendment No 599/A(E) by Dr Nachbaur, colleagues and colleagues on 'Economic war, record unemployment and TTIP: Austria as a Marionette to be treated urgently between East and West’. [[10:19:52]] Request for a brief debate on the reply to the question 1838/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e4731	I also say that the request made pursuant to § 92 of the Rules of Procedure is a short debate on the reply to Question No 1838/AB by the honourable Member Mag. Dr. Zinggl, colleagues in the field of constitutional service and questioning by the Federal Minister for Art and Culture, Constitution and Public Service. Since this meeting called for a urgent request to be dealt with, the brief debate will take place following this one. The request for urgent action will be made at 1.15 p.m. I announce that the session of ORF III will be broadcast live in full length. I shall interrupt the sitting until 1/15 p.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e4777	I'll start the interrupted session again. [[13:18:10]] Request for urgent procedure by Dr Kathrin Nachbaur, colleagues at the Federal Chancellor on "Economic war, record unemployment and TTIP: Austria as a Marionette, caught between East and West’ (599/A)(E)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e4813	We come to the urgent treatment of the self-employed application 599/A(E). As he has now approached all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the writer. The urgent application has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e5061	I now give the floor to Mrs Nachbaur as an applicant for the urgent request. According to § 74a para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 20 minutes. Madam Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e5088	Madam President. Dear Members of the Government! Dear colleagues and dear taxpayers! In this special meeting requested by the Stronach team we deal with our key question, namely the economy. At first sight it may have wondered one or the other, what we have written in the request for topics that seem to have nothing to do with each other. In fact, they have a lot to do with each other, because the question is: How free has Austria already become in its decisions or how foreignly determined? – In this respect, all three themes have a lot to do with each other: the economic sanctions against Russia, the planned free trade agreement with the USA and, last but not least, the establishment of this huge bureaucracy at European and, of course, at Austrian level. The sad common denominator is record unemployment. The economy is in a state of flaw throughout Europe. The economy suffers everywhere, so also in Austria, and that is why we have a constantly rising unemployment rate. At this point I would like to say: Dear representatives of the government, stop adorning themselves constantly with the fact that Austria is so good in the European comparison, because first of all these figures are not correctly reckoned and second, no unemployed person can miss out on your beautiful speech! [[Abg. Arbitrators: Why? If it's true!]] [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: But not from your bad jury either! What's the benefit of an unemployed person when you're talking about everything?]] The comfort is tasteless. Every single man seeking work has deserved to be fully committed by the government to creating jobs. But how? – Instead of finally making sound economic policies – that is, down with labour costs, down with bureaucracy, down with the huge tax burden, provide for peace, for trade – let us abuse ourselves as a game ball between East and West. The conflict in Ukraine is about to end up in a real economic war in which Austria can only lose. Thousands of entrepreneurs are affected, tens of thousands of workers are affected and could lose their job. A massive damage to the Austrian economy is being done. Look You are alone in what the Raiffeisen share course did early today, after it became known how it looks in Ukraine with the losses! Our politicians should feel committed to our employees and our companies and not lead economic wars that we can only lose. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and the FPÖ representatives.]] The sanctions against Russia will not be applied to those who decide – or even prevent – them! –: the politicians, the associations, the chambers or the ORF. All these are not concerned, because the lives of taxpayers, of forced fees, on time at the first of each month, the salary is transferred. However, it is up to the others, the taxpayers, that is to say the entrepreneurs and the workers. Only politicians who have been in the protected area for their lives who believe that the money grows on the trees, only those who can take this seeming morale as an excuse to put it before the economy and thus before the jobs. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: Who believes that?]] [[Abg. Auer: In Canada maybe!]] [[Call the ÖVP:Kampfrhetoric!]] This permanent deterioration of the private sector is also appropriate. You know, the private sector, these are those parts of society that act and work independently, who take money into control, the risks involved in building up something with their money. These are the people who then pay the high taxes, of which you all live – the politicians and the officials, the public institutions. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] And the Austrian government politicians can now get involved in these economic sanctions, damage the domestic labour market, turn the farmers into a pot for damages, which the people from the private sector have filled before. This is a redistribution and an irresponsible handling of the hard-working tax money. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: We just take the taxes off, don't we?]] In my last speech in the National Council, I criticised the fact that SPÖ is becoming more and more a party of union officials. But that is exactly what gives me a certain hope, because in the SPÖ, it is certainly the trade unionists who first know what it means when people no longer have jobs. [[Abg. Arbitrators: I am only glad that you...!]] That is why I appeal to you, ladies and gentlemen: Do you really stand up for the workers! Pressure that the economic sanctions have an end, because the dangerous thousands of jobs! [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and the FPÖ representatives.]] The sanctions will also only intensify authoritarian tendencies in Russia, which are undoubtedly present and which one has to criticize. In almost war law, civil rights are always eliminated. This approach between Russia and Europe was the greatest achievement in history after the fall of the wall, and it is melodious to destroy it so quickly now. With his comment in the ORF, Christoph Leitl was perfectly right: The Russians are our neighbors, and everyone knows that you always have to see that you are doing well with your neighbors. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Call to the ÖVP: But this also applies to Putin, isn't it?]] Finally, a financial, an economic argument: Ukraine is practically advocating. Until the crisis, this was primarily Putin's problem. It has now become the problem of the EU, but the EU itself has practically argued. The ECB makes the EU the United Debt Communities of Europe. How are Austrian and German and other net taxpayers to finance this forever? – That is not possible at all. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] In my opinion, the sanctions against Russia are not so much about human rights and the rule of law, because it would have been necessary to make a strong international commitment to human rights when Putin passed these discriminatory laws against the homosexuals or when media freedom was gradually gradually reduced. There was no such great vortex, however, because it seems that the West is not concerned at all, but rather it is a question of executing American interests in Europe. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Oh yes!]] [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and the FPÖ representatives.]] On the other side of the Atlantic, US Americans are attracted to the TTIP in order to bind the EU closely to the US. The US certainly has no great interest in close economic cooperation between the EU and Russia. [[Abg. Darabos: International law, tell you what?]] But if you look at the situation with the USA now, then you see trade and investment between the USA and the EU is already running as intensively as no other two economic blocks in the world, and that is also good. Trade means prosperity and peace. As an economic liberal party, we are therefore in favour of free and fair trade, for a common economy, both with countries from the East and with countries from the West. But we must not be instrumentalized and handed over. Our high food and environmental standards should not be undermined as much as our sovereignty. Austria is becoming more and more foreign. The EU prescribes everything from light bulbs to vacuum cleaner watt strengths to the menus for our local host. This has become absurd. I believe in the right of self-determination of the peoples and therefore also in that of our country. That is why our demand is: It is time for the Austrian government to take a heart and fight courageously for the interests of our country. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We're not playing ball. We want peace, trade, prosperity and therefore say what is going on in the East: Austria must not participate in the economic sanctions and must work for an immediate peace summit in Vienna. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] What's going on in the West? The Austrians need to be informed about TTIP's secret negotiations. There must be a public opinion, and then good negotiation must be made. We need to negotiate. That is a democratic principle. [[New condolences with the Stronach team.]] Everyone knows that economic freedom, growth and prosperity go hand in hand. You only need to look at the former poverty houses in the world, whether it is Russia, China, Chile or Ireland. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Chile had been rich before!]] A certain middle class has developed and grown throughout the world through liberalisation. The opposite can be observed for all countries that have focused on state faith and the state economy. An extreme example would be Zimbabwe, the former Kornkammer of Africa. Or closer to us: France relies on etatism, on more taxes. What happened? I quote our Minister of Finance Schelling: “The rich are gone and the economy is not running.” If you look at the studies on the economic freedom index, you can see quite clearly: The greater the freedom of the economy, the greater the prosperity. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] But it is important: We must not let ourselves be condemned. The USA is the Goliath in this transatlantic free trade agreement. And we must be the clever David. Austria's government politicians must not simply be left out of the EU's leadership lines, but must have courage and take control of things themselves. We cannot simply accept the fact that the EU Commission – that is what we must imagine – is the most democratically legitimate body in the EU. – make the most important decisions for us. For this very reason, we have included TTIP in our special meeting, because this is where the foreign policy continues. No longer Austria can decide, nor can this House decide what is good for Austria, because free trade agreements have been negotiated directly through the EU since 2009. Mr Bundeskanzler, I wonder whether you are aware of this or whether They deliberately conceal Austria that we are prisoners of a specialist troop in Brussels, who negotiates everything. These specialists are not the representatives of the Austrian people. In Brussels, lobbyists and Anglo-Saxon law firms negotiate the Austrian workers. That's not correct. Even if it is argued that the TTIP is a mixed agreement, it does not mean that the national parliaments have anything to say. It's just about: Do we ratify or do we not ratify? A discussion or even a cord is not foreseen. This is a purely label-difference to favour citizens that there are co-determination rights here. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] What can the National Council do? He could – and I say explicitly: he could, if he wanted, refuse ratification. But, quite honestly, Mr. Federal Chancellor, Mr. Vice-Chancellor, would you really dare? To date, the Austrian Federal Government has never let muscles play with the EU. In the case of the Ukraine crisis, they have thrown neutrality overboard without pulling with the eyelashes. They will therefore also address these free trade agreements without previously optimising the outcome of the negotiations for small and medium-sized enterprises and for farmers. Mr Bundeskanzler and Mr Vice-Chancellor, I ask you to take an active part in these negotiations in the Council. They cannot accept that the assets of the Austrians are negotiated in dark areas by lobbyists and stakeholders. Don't give up our sovereignty so easy! [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and the FPÖ representatives.]] Represented the views and concerns of the workers, the entrepreneurs, the Austrian citizens! You've been elected to do this. Or are you afraid of the people's opinion? Push You are therefore always going to introduce the EU and give it to the unscrupulous compatriots? Dear taxpayers! Look at what the government is doing here for a picture! At a time of record unemployment, there are economic sanctions, I would like to say, an economic war against Russia, the Austrian economy is being handed over to a secret free trade agreement with unexplained consequences, and we are looking at the way the EU dictates cooking to our hosts and other completely absurd bureaucratic barriers are built up. This task of our domestic policy, our economic policy, our foreign policy is embarrassing! [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and the FPÖ representatives.]] The highest objective in Austrian politics must be to secure peace, secure fair trade and thus create jobs and prosperity. Good jobs are the most important in a society. Only in this way can there be social peace. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We must therefore do everything we can to ensure that there are as many private employers as possible in Austria. Addressed to the left redistributors here in the High House: All those who now want to hunt the last private employers with a wealth tax outside of the country should rather be charged with an indebtedness tax. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: (in the direction of Abg. Mr. Kickl? It wasn't bad!]] We are now at a point where we decide in which direction Austria will develop in the future. Austria must remain a sovereign country! Dear government politicians, you have not been chosen to make Austria a strange puppet, but to represent the Austrian people and their interests! In Austria, in Brussels and its requirements, but in Brussels everything is good to take off, that is not an option! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We demand: Make a policy for the Austrians – not for Brussels and not for anyone else! We demand jobs instead of economic war, transparency instead of TTIP and instead of secret negotiations, further: Strengthening economy instead of suffocating companies with bureaucracy and a huge tax burden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e5397	Mr Faymann spoke on the submission of an opinion. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. Mr Bundeskanzler, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e5421	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I don't know which one of the points you wanted to work out, I'm supposed to go first. I will start with the jobs, because you too have started to do so. If in Austria 287,000 people have no work at an hour, it is about 287,000 too much. This 287 000 will not help Europe-wide comparison. However, it helps the other 287 000 who have a job because the average unemployment rate in the European Union is twice as high as in Austria. Many of the proposals made in other countries have led these countries, although rich countries, to a higher level of unemployment than we do. It is not only the southern European countries, no, but also in Sweden youth unemployment is significantly higher than in Austria. Comparisons therefore have a meaning not only in sport and science, but also in economic and social policy. Therefore, I am very proud that it is the Austrian companies, the social partners, all responsible political forces and the framework conditions in our country that ensure that we are close to Germany, in some factors better, in others in competition with Germany, such as the question of who has the lowest unemployment and who has the lowest youth unemployment. So you have to ask yourself the question: What makes Germany, Austria and the Netherlands different from most other European countries that have not been so well hit by the crisis? They will see that the social factor, the tax rate is relatively high, the social state in these countries is well developed. Germany is not exactly a low-paid country and a low-tax country. Germany is not one of the countries which, in contrast to the countries of south-eastern Europe, have lower corporate taxes than we have, or have substantial differences in labour regulations. It is the countries which have a certain tax rate, because they are committed to the task of the State, because these countries are better able to fulfil better in the crisis of their task of promoting investment, strengthening purchasing power, creating appropriate framework conditions and investing in research, education and training than if they are participating in tax dumping. That is why I am convinced that in Austria the right way is to take a stand against tax dumping, also at European level, together with the German neighbours and Scandinavian countries, against wage dumping. In Europe, countries with higher unemployment are often the same countries with low wages and less tax revenue. So it is about competitiveness and fair distribution, distribution justice. This competitiveness and subsequently the issue of distribution can be very much controlled by investment, by purchasing power, by education and training. I am not satisfied with everything Austria has to show here at the hour. There are very strong elements, especially in the area of investment, when I look at road and rail, but not at broadband development. There is, for example, a very strong and good programme in the education sector, for childcare facilities, which we fully implement, but it is still far too weak in all-day school forms. In the field of training, dual training in the west of Austria is much better than in large regions of Austria. So there is really much to do here, but it is not necessary to deal with this under “the economic situation is quite worrying, and everything is terrible”, but it should be dealt with as the Austrians, the entrepreneurs, the workers, the employees, deserve, as far as possible by proposing improvements, but not the situation in our country. This has not been earned by anyone, and most of all by the hardworking workers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] On the question of TTIP, CETA, TiSA, which you have referred to or discussed in detail in your urgent request, I would like to point out a very simple, perhaps contradiction, but at least a contradiction. You write in your request: ‘One of the best known criticisms is investor protection.’ He's also very busy with us: How to protect investors?, and: What is necessary in the case of a free trade agreement and what is unnecessary? And then you continue: "The regulation on Investor State Disputes (ISDS) allows corporations to oppose EU and EU law misunderstandings. To complain of a state as a result of the risk of legitimate gain expectations.” Accordingly, you should be in favour of an investor protection clause, for “against misunderstanding laws of the EU or of the EU. To sue a state because of the risk of legitimate expectations for profits would actually be an argument to highlight this investment clause in any type of free trade agreement. We believe that, especially when it comes to the United States – which is an essential trading partner for Austria – it is not necessary to establish such an additional investor protection in order to be able to complain about the “risk of legitimate expectations”. [[Abg. Kogler: Who is “we ”? Is that you, or is that the Federal Government? And what does the Minister of Economic Affairs say?]] You can ask the Minister of Economic Affairs yourself, I tell you my personal opinion, which is a political opinion which I will represent as Chancellor of the European Council in this way. [[Abg. Kogler: We'll do that tomorrow!]] And I represent them out of conviction, because I believe that there are, of course, free trade agreements in the world, where such a clause, i.e. a conciliation procedure is necessary to protect against arbitrary expropriations, but it is not necessary in the European Union, in Austria or in the United States. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] These are countries whose laws and their reliability are sufficient, so that it is not necessary to provide for an additional investor protection clause. It is already seen that certain contradictions play a role here when one goes beyond the headline a little on the ground. You also address the two million additional jobs promised by the EU in your application. I would like to comment specifically on these investments. They write here: “although the number of people in proportion to the total population” of the European Union – “so 800 million people – can be seen”. I must tell you that it is 508 million people at an hour, not 800 million in the European Union, so this is a “small” round-up. But what you're right about is that an investment programme in the order of magnitude, as Jean-Claude Juncker has suggested, also needs to be based on a programme that will bring investment to additional jobs. And this base is now in the European Union, and that is again a very essential question that you are addressing: How can economic policy be countered to the current development of relatively low growth and even recession in some countries? This is only through increased purchasing power and investment. In order to invest in those countries that need it most, which are also our trading partners and are therefore also important for our exports, the Commission, together with economic ministers and, of course, government leaders, finance ministers and ECOFIN, must put together a programme that is actually taking place. And that's not quite as simple as it is in a headline when you discuss it in depth. If it fails, many countries will have 500 million in the European Union! – Yes, with the USA, but you write “the European Union”. [[Abg. Reciprocating:! 300 plus 500 are 800!]] [[Abg. Postman: 500 in the EU plus 300 in the USA are 800!]] There it says: “In principle, the two million additional jobs promised by the EU are welcome” – the European Union. If you know we have 508 million inhabitants, I'm glad. And if two million jobs are to be created, I do not expect that this will result in a free trade agreement with the United States, but think that an investment programme, as we are currently discussing at European level, can possibly achieve it. But this can only be achieved if we are also aware that we have to be ready for a common path when it comes to guarantees and liability. I do not believe that an investment programme can be properly implemented in the countries of the European Union without creating certain common liabilities and guarantees for infrastructure and other projects. It will be an effortful process to negotiate, under what conditions and with what rules – keyword: it must not be a barrel without soil – we can create these investments that actually bring a few hundred thousand jobs. And that is, of course, the central objective at a time when economic growth is far too low. Unfortunately, the forecast for growth has also been revised in Austria. Like Germany, we are above the average of the growth of the eurozone, but in both countries, Germany and Austria, growth has been revised down. That is to say, there are factors in Europe that have to do with this lack of purchasing power, the high level of unemployment, which greatly impede our exports. Cars don't buy cars, therefore: If people in purchasing power suffer a loss, it is also directly noticeable to us. Therefore, all these investment programmes are a central point for me for the further development of the European Union. And if one takes seriously what is so important to you here, namely these central economic and social deepenings and improvements, then I do not see them in further liberalisation, but then I see them in solidarity economic and social policy, both in the creation of clear rules for financial markets and banks to prevent speculation and in clear and comprehensible arrangements for investment packages. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would now like to say just a few words on the question of the Ukraine-Russia conflict that you have referred to, as I have already had the opportunity to express my views on it several times. It cannot be indifferent to a country such as Austria, which has fought for its independence, whose mothers and fathers have committed themselves to independence, if, in a country like Ukraine, soldiers from the neighbouring country show up with the dubious excuse that they are here on vacation. There can also be no credible excuse when it is said that supposedly stolen tanks come in large numbers through gaps in the Ukrainian-Russian border in a wondrous way to the neighbouring country. As Austrians, we do not care if, in an area in which war exists, some 3,000 people have lost their lives and hundreds of thousands are fleeing – a humanitarian disaster! It would be unworthy for Austria to look away and say that we are rather talking about good economic relations than about this war. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We do not want an unworthy foreign policy, nor an unworthy European policy, so let us look and say that we have a contribution to make to the humanitarian situation and to the protection of the sovereignty of a country. This does not mean that you have to agree to everything in Ukraine, you can practice criticism of many transactions in Ukraine. It is not necessary to talk something healthy, but it is about defending the sovereignty and integrity of a country. This is for Austria, a country which takes freedom very seriously, which takes neutrality very important, and which has so clearly written self-employment and self-determination on its flags, a commitment to Ukraine as well. Therefore, it is very clear: Russia plays an important role in this peace process without the serious partner Russia being able to deal with this peace process, but Russia also needs to be made clear that this sovereignty is to be defended. I know that the different countries of the European Union think very differently on this issue. There are many who would actually prefer military responses that would rather deliver weapons to a war zone if a country like Ukraine had difficulties with soldiers from neighbouring countries. There was a request at the last European Council to be prepared by a Member State as a European Union to take a decision quite openly to welcome, perhaps even to co-finance, such arms supplies. The request has not been further discussed because of our rejection and the rejection of some others, but there was the intention of some Member States to say that Ukraine should actually be given military support in defending its sovereignty. As a neutral country, we do not have this military logic. Our logic is a political, a very strong peace-political one, one that stands in the tradition of Austria and that I am convinced that it is also right. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If you look at weapons that have been delivered by some countries with good or not as good intentions in recent years or decades, you know that arms supplies are not an appropriate means to resolve a conflict. And this is the strength of Austria: We are not members of NATO, we do not want to become members of NATO, but we are a neutral country that respects the sovereignty of other countries.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e5535	Thank you, Federal Chancellor. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we are going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, with each club having a total speaking time of 25 minutes. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e5565	Madam President. High house! Mr Faymann, Federal Chancellor, you have mentioned that the sovereignty of the countries and human rights are very important to you. You did that right, I support it, but your perception is selective once again. They only recognize human rights violations and violations of human rights there. Sovereignty of other countries where it suits you. You are blind to those countries – and now we are with the USA – that want to push through this TTIP in Europe. When you look at what the United States is doing in the world, and if you still know about it – I think many here know it, but many out there don't know – Obama has been bringing, since he received the Nobel Peace Prize, at least one person every day, at least one – that is, he gives the command every day to targeted killings, so that countless people, including innocent people, come to the handcushion – and the whole thing, of course, without trial, without the possibility for those who are on the lists to be able to defend. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] It's going to look away. It will be looked away if the USA – which many know – serves only its own interests. I will then speak to TTIP immediately, which shows that the US is also doing nothing but serving its own interests. Many probably do not know that one million people are currently on such lists; many call them death lists. A million people are on these lists and can be killed at any time. In more than a hundred countries around the world, targeted killings are targeted. There is no sovereignty of the states, there comes the drone – and boom, everything is dead. You have no problem with this, Mr Faymann, but when it comes to someone in his own country, in a country that has always been called a courtyard, to be called a front garden, that is suddenly a problem. If the United States enforces its interests, it is not a problem. Thus, we are at TTIP, which is to be classified exactly in this category. For more than 20 years, the United States has been trying to impose on us all the stupidities they make in their own country. Whether this is genetic engineering, whether this is the hormone for mast animals, all these things and many others that are possible in the USA, which has not prevented their population, they now want to introduce them to the European Union so that they can send us their great goods. That's what it's all about. If you make yourself here today and claim that this arbitration court will not exist, then you say the untruth, and that quite consciously, for one is certain: If we do not want genetic engineering in Europe, but the US wants to deliver its products to Europe, what they have been trying to do for 20 years, there are two ways: Either this TTIP, which is being negotiated behind closed doors, is simply negotiated in such a way that it will be possible, or there is this arbitration. There is no other possibility. Or do you think the US wants to do us something good? Do you seriously believe that this free trade agreement should benefit us Europeans? Many say: Yes, the Americans are our friends! Skill Do you remember what it was like when Mrs. Merkel was heard from her “friends, ” the U.S.A.? – One has tried to conclude an anti-Spy agreement. Do you know what happened? - Nothing. Nothing! The USA – and they have also confirmed this – is still listening to 320 German citizens, including high-ranking politicians, also in the vicinity of Angela Merkel, as well as entrepreneurs, even now, and the Foreign Minister has said a sentence that makes a very deep look: We simply need to note that the US and we have different access. – You have to imagine that! That is, they have a different access to freedom and all these things, and we accept this in Europe. Why are we doing that? Why do we accept that the US is doing with us what they want, and this TTIP ultimately undermines all that we do not want as citizens? Of course, there are also many who think that if you don't want the nuclear power or fracking for gas or also the genetic engineering or just the hormone intake in masts, that is to say, refusal of progress, because the Americans want this, they think it's quite great. And now it's just about that we have to find that great, because the American companies want it because they also make profits. My approach is: If the Austrian population does not want this – and I am convinced that 99 percent do not want it – the question arises why we do not have a say. The European Union does not care at all because of the fact that there has been a petition by 200 organisations, which has been turned off, wrongfully turned off by the Commission, a petition for the involvement of the population in the TTIP negotiations. What are you doing? – It is further negotiated behind closed doors. That's why I can only call all those sitting here, and above all all outside in front of the televisions: Let us fight together against the fact that international corporations, supported by the USA, place their profit interests on the interests of Austrians! We have to fight against this. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] This is the challenge of the hour, otherwise what Mr Faymann seems not to be trying to prevent, namely: The interests of the population, the interests of the environment, the interests of the common sense are the subject of profit and profit. And that must not happen, we must fight for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e5637	Mr Klubobmann Mag is next spoken. Arbitrator. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e5659	Federal Chancellor! Dear colleagues on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today's theme is obviously so chosen that everyone from the Stronach Group can talk about what's right in his heart. This is quite legitimate in Parliament, but it does not help a specific debate. The first contradiction I discovered: Col. Nachbaur complained that entrepreneurs from Austria were fleeing that the government would drive them out. – I remember being behind me in your place, wife Rebaur, Mr Stronach, who was then, because it was not sufficient for tax and income to leave Parliament after two meetings. So I think your experiences are too narrow, your experiences from the Stronach team, your experiences with Mr Frank Stronach directly. [[Abg. Reborn: Too bad that there are no more people who use their own money to move something in the country!]] Please, don't do this to us to choose that as an overall concept for Austrian domestic policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Secondly, it is, quite honestly, as much prefers to me, as it is now, but it has been talked about Austria, and I have already had the impression that you have drawn the wrong picture, because figures are relatively unwarranted arguments, because you can't tell much about it: With 4.9 percent, we have too much unemployment by 4.9%, but still the lowest unemployment rate in the European Union. The EU average is 10.2 percent, i.e. far more than double. Austria takes GDP, gross domestic product, value added per capita in terms of second place within the European Union. And even in spite of a worse economic forecast than accepted, the Minister of Finance informs us that the budget will also keep its course in 2014. The interest on government bonds is as low as never before, that is, less than 2%. High credit quality has been expressed by all credit rating agencies. Whenever you talk about the tax and tax rate, you say it's so high. In addition to this, only a historical comparison: In 2002, it was the highest with 44.9%. It was under black and blue. At the time, the so reform-oriented government generated the highest tax rate in Austria. Now, 2014 we are below, 43.8 percent, and we want to go towards 43 percent and below in the next few years. You have the right – which you have not mentioned so unfortunately, but which, I believe, is necessary – that we should discuss a tax-structure reform in Austria, that, as we have decided in a request, we should reduce the tax rate from the bad and unfair 36.5 percent to 25 percent and that we should also go in the direction of a discharge, which also strengthens internal demand, because people have more purchasing power. Now weak economic growth would be positively supported by increased domestic demand and purchasing power. This is a way for greater justice and a way of the people's economic mind for which we would stand. They also spoke about the SP-millionaire tax concept. – I’ve said it a thousand times, but still like to repeat it because I think it’s a right concept: We are in favour of a millionaire tax, i.e. to tax assets of more than € 1 million with a small tax rate of between 0.5 and 1 percent – for all 1 million overlying assets, not assets. Even Switzerland knows such models. Please do not be so tense about this issue, but acknowledge that this is also economic – I do not need to ask Mr Androsch, we have made it clear to the Ministry of Finance that enough comes out. [[Abg. There's nothing coming out! Ask Mr Androsch! There's nothing left!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But let me also say a few words about Europe, the economy and the large trade blocks, because I believe that Austria and Europe must act self-confidently, recognizing that with half a billion inhabitants we are the largest economic power, the largest economic area and, at the same time, the cleanest and most technologically friendly, producing correspondingly human rights, solidarity, freedom, labour rights and environmental protection. The Voest-Stahlwerk in Linz is the steelworks that have the most environmentally friendly production line for steel in the world. What we need to do now is to pay attention to these benefits all over the world and not to any dirty steelworks from Russia or China. This is the objective of policy that we must pursue in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. New builder: Does that apply to the nuclear current?]] – I don’t know now, you Intervening seems to me to be a bit torn off from the debate. [[Abg. New builder: I don't know!]] But that doesn't matter, you can go into it yourself, maybe then we understand the call and the answer. I wanted to say two more things because OSCE, EU and Ukraine have been addressed. The Federal Government has offered Vienna as a place of negotiation and always offers itself as a mediator between these blocks of conflict, and that is also the right way. And to TTIP we also have a critical position. We say that what is self-determination, what the control of market policy is, must not be removed. We must see that these positions are part of the negotiations, and if they are not sufficiently involved, we must hold the discussion. Therefore, I ask you not to mutate from the Canadian-millionaire-funded party to the anti-American party, but to stay on the path of objectivity and judge things as they are! Unfortunately, you didn't. [[Abg. Post-Bauer: We are the Party for the Working People and Entrepreneurs, wishing where they are from!]] It won't help both of you. The political threshold has now fallen, and I believe you will not exceed it with current hours or with urgent requests in special sessions as well as today. Nevertheless, a serious debate on these points, as you put it, will be necessary. I honestly say that only the company tax reduction you are formulating costs more than €3 billion. I cannot see, honestly, the sensibleness and seriousness of your proposals and I therefore reject the requests all around them.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e5782	The next item is the speech by Mr Haubner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e5803	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mrs Nachbaur, you are always talking about how successfully you have worked internationally, in Canada and elsewhere. I think it's very good if you take a look at Austria from the outside, and I can only say where I'm going, it usually says: Austria is a very good business location, has innovative entrepreneurs and diligent workers. – I would like to maintain that at the very beginning. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Rebour: This is despite your policy and not because of your policy!]] But one thing is quite clear: Austria is a very strongly export-oriented country, and we cannot decouple from international development. We have also not fully digested the consequences of the 2008 financial crisis. It has become a euro crisis, then a state financial crisis, and now we have a persistent growth crisis. – That's just a fact. However, the fact is that in Austria we still have a stable situation and a functioning economy. The fact that our situation is not to rejoice is also clear, but one has to say objectively: It is the Austrian economy with its employees, which still secures the Austrian standard! As I said – I have already mentioned – there are also external influences that shape our country, but the Austrian entrepreneurs and their employees have mastered this difficult situation better than other countries in Europe in recent years, and both of them simply deserve our thanks. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, there are many uncertainties, especially the conflict on our doorstep between Ukraine and Russia also has its impact, is an uncertainty factor, but we will see. In particular, Austria, we are part of the European Union, has made every effort to ensure that the resulting burden on us is equally shared among the European states. We seem to have succeeded in this, but there is still a slight impact in Austria. The Minister of Finance has reported that by doing so, we lose about 0.1 percent in growth, as evidenced by a WIFO study. If we look at all of this, it is clear that the forecasts had to be revised downwards in recent times. We get to feel this several times, of course also on the labour market, but the Federal Government takes over €2.5 billion in 2014 and 2015 for labour market policy activities. This is €200 million more than in 2013. Nevertheless, in Austria – which cannot be denied – almost 300,000 people are looking for a job. But I emphasize it, and we all know it: It is not policy that creates jobs, but businessmen in our country! And they have proved successfully in recent years that they can. In particular, the small and medium-sized enterprises employ two million workers, the management companies around 400 000 – and this interaction is the secret of the success of the Austrian economy. That is why we need more jobs, and we need the entrepreneurs who create them. That is why we also need the planning security for entrepreneurs – and not the daily call for new taxes and taxes. That's where we're all at the limit. We need relief instead of burden, I say quite clearly, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If Mr Schieder criticises the 2002 tax rate, I am against it: Black and Blue reduced the tax rate to almost 40 percent in 2006. And I think that's how it must be. We need a reduction in the tax rate! That must be our common goal. Ladies and gentlemen, if we focus on the economy and thus jobs, then we need three essential points: First of all, the restructuring of the state budget – we have, and we see this quite clearly, a problem of expenditure and not a problem of revenue – and secondly – and this connects us, colleague Rebaur, we need to strengthen and relieve entrepreneurs, namely through the reduction of red tape. That's not a question at all. I mean, worker protection is something very important – I certainly agree with Mr Katzian – but if the Workers' Protection Act has 1 209 paragraphs and regulations, we must also ask ourselves as a legislator – and I am certainly critical about this – whether we can still think of it to entrepreneurs. I say no. I think we want our entrepreneurs to have more time to be in business or to do business and thus secure jobs, and should not paving them every day with bureaucratic duties. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] We want to reduce obstacles and make economies easier. That must be our goal. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm gonna hold on to it, too. Property taxes in every respect are not just for entrepreneurs, but for every citizen simply the cold expropriation. That's what we don't need. I say it very clearly once again: We need relief and no new forms of burden. Austria is now – I have already stressed it – an export country. We earn 6 out of 10 € abroad, of which 5 out of 10 € in Europe and 1 € with the rest of the world. Agreements with other countries are very important, especially for small, medium-sized and large enterprises. We already have a large number of such agreements, which are already in force today and which benefit the economy and the jobs. We must, of course, critically question the agreements, but we should not spread fear and panic from the outset. International cooperation is very important for the economy and jobs together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e5870	Mr Klubobmann is speaking next time. - I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e5891	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, today's urgent request is quite interwoven with many topics. We have so far experienced a so-called herb-and-rove debate, where one will of course try to address this one or the other, as appropriate. We have heard how difficult the current overall situation is at different levels. Yes, we have a recession development. The data will be revised downwards. We have a situation where economic growth is hardly expected from the experts, which continues to increase the overall situation. "Euro crisis" has fallen as a keyword, the development on the labour market, where we have a record unemployment rate, where we are experiencing a tax burden at the highest level in Austria today. And, of course, you have to hold on to it: We have the highest rates of tax, which we can imagine, the highest tax revenue. We have no revenue problem, we have an expenditure problem. That is to say, we are European champions in spending the tax money, and this, of course, makes the situation dramatic accordingly. We must therefore finally start spending and, at the same time, finally relieve the citizens of the burden so that they can touch themselves again and thus boost the economy. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Sieber.]] Because today the Voest was briefly addressed by Mr Klubobmann Schieder: You are right, the Voest is exemplary when it comes to producing as environmentally friendly as possible steel. And steel lives on getting the CO2 out, otherwise it won't work. But if you have to make as senseful punishment payments as the Voest, which is being condoned to pay €60 million a year to penalty fees here in Austria – although it has the environmentally friendly standards! – then you have to get to the head and wonder why you don’t change the contracts and get out of the Kyoto Protocol, because that’s anti-economic, that’s anti-location! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Hagen.]] You can no longer produce steel more environmentally friendly! But with such absurd measures, this industry is ultimately forced to invest in Texas and South America today, in Brazil, and not in Austria anymore. This is disastrous for the site, for job development and ultimately for the overall development of the industry in Austria. At last I expect measures to be taken to counter this. And then, of course, today the conflict in Europe, the civil war conflict in Ukraine, which, of course, is also a very dramatic conflict and, I say, a very threatening conflict, which is very worrying to all of us, because in this overall development there is a risk that there will be a regional conflict. could go out and here also put large deputy blocks of interest in the room. And, of course, there are positions of interest here on different sides, all of which need to be critically illuminated. We're not supposed to hang on Putin's breast or Obama's breast. But you already have to weigh these interests. Of course, I say, there is on the one hand a world politician, namely the United States of America, who are not known for their selflessness. So to carry this selflessness, peace and democracy out into the world, unfortunately, this has failed dramatically in many areas of God. If we look into Iraq or Libya or Syria today, there may have been business advantages for one side or another, but democracy is unfortunately not God's moved there, nor peace nor peace, nor peace, but the opposite of it. It is also very critical to see how friends in the European Union are confronted with hearing scandals when assessing the situation of civil rights and human rights, which are partially eliminated in the United States under the pretext of combating terrorism. If one hears that human rights standards are not respected at all in Guantánamo and human rights abuses have been committed and tortured in Polish CIA prisons and other madnesss, then one must also take a critical look at and address this, as well as on the Russian side, where, of course, human rights violations are also taking place and where there is much to criticise in many areas – how one deals with citizens' rights, how democracy standards are and much more. But, please, both sides critically evaluate and also be aware that both sides were ally and have made it possible for us to be neutral! And that is the crucial point. And precisely because of this question of neutrality, we do not have a party to take part in such major conflicts and conflicts as they are currently taking place. And of course here are also the interests of the US and Russia in the foreground. When the Russian President Putin came to Europe three years ago and talks with Mrs Merkel and Mr Sarkozy with a view to a common European Union and Russia economic area, this was rejected at the time. This, of course, was not in the interest of the United States of America that the EU with Russia might be a common economic area, because the Free Trade Agreement was a great interest. And since then, it has also been noted that there has been a fairly high foreign policy vis-à-vis Russia. So I say, the great selflessness you should question. There are very different aspects of interest here, including the Ukraine regional conflict, which is not so regionally founded, if you ask this a little critically. In view of all of this, we have a special responsibility to live our neutrality! It is nice if the Chancellor of the Federal Republic has tried the terms and today lived the great Spagat, but with the participation in the economic sanctions – and this is an economic war – Austria has left the path of neutrality and one has taken the party and unfortunately has not behaved neutrally as we demand. That would have been necessary! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Lugar.]] It would have been necessary not to engage in the economic war, not to engage in an escalation, but to determine how Switzerland lives to remain neutral and to strive for the diplomatic path – and to remain credible here in order to be able to act as a mediator. One is not a credible mediator if one has, as it were, previously taken part in an economic war party. That's what it's all about! And this unbelief has become so visible with this behavior, Mr. Federal Chancellor Faymann. That's exactly what it's all about: Independence, freedom, sovereignty, neutrality, these are all beautiful headlines that we have to fill with life! They also need a soul! And that is exactly where I am concerned, given the behaviour of this government in recent months. [[Congratulations and bravoruf at the FPÖ.]] If one supports a senseless economic war, then one should already keep in mind: Well, of course, the Americans have no selfless motives here again, but we have also learned that Mr Biden's son has already been established prominently in Ukraine in various boards when it comes to gas and oil, but of course it is also about very specific economic interests with the free trade agreements, which are now being negotiated under public exclusion. They ask themselves: Why excluding the public? Why not have transparency? Why? What's there to hide? And why are the citizens not involved? – Because, apparently, Europe’s citizens’ interests are not in the foreground again, but clearly, corporate and banking interests. And this is what makes citizens rightly critical, because we have already suffered from past days and developments in this field, and of course many citizens fear that genetic engineering and other dramatic developments in Europe will continue to take place, up to the possibility of a private complaint, where the rule of law could be removed. Many, many threatening developments are in the area when it comes to environmental standards when it comes to self-nutrition, as well as to European countries and countries, a healthy agricultural development that could be at risk. These are legitimate interests! The citizens expect them to be involved. And if one is then removed from the European Union in such a way that one simply ignores citizens' initiatives that have collected countless signatures and is not even willing to deal with the citizens in the context of a contentious, informative discussion on this subject, then of course there is a great danger on all sides, especially those of European citizens, of distrusting even more – and rightly so, because there is a great danger. And you have to take this danger seriously. We therefore want a binding national survey and referendum in Austria when it comes to the TTIP Free Trade Agreement. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We want to see the integration of citizens in the sense of direct democracy – and not again from above the mandatory regulations, that the Commissioners tell us what should be good for people in Europe. That is exactly what we expect, but it is precisely here that one tries once again to roll over the citizens, as well as in other areas – the European Stability Mechanism and many other areas more. That we have a damage to the economic war and sanctions is the case, yes. This is where we cut ourselves into our own meat, if we want to do so, cut off our own leg if, in the light of a trend in which we have a record unemployment, there are another ten thousand jobs in Austria affected by agriculture, which affects trade, which is in the Tourism is affected, even banks are affected! I do not think I am a bank friend, but I am worried if I have to read about the current development of the Raiffeisenbank today and I know that the Raiffeisen group, with €36 billion, is also in Russia with investments and may be afraid of so-called failures and these economic sanctions will not have a beneficial effect. I am very worried, because in the end we are suffering the damage, and the citizens are suffering the damage. And I am already excited how you will explain to the citizens that these failures should be compensated again with tax money and higher taxes somewhere. [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Reciprocating.]] That is exactly what makes you very concerned, because we have a total responsibility and, of course, we should also do everything we can to eliminate this and live a de-escalation rather than further escalation. These are very important issues, which have naturally been discussed here today and which make it necessary to discuss them openly. And that's where we want to keep going. We will also have the opportunity to do so tomorrow at the current European hour.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6036	Mrs. Klubobfrau Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek has been reported next word. I'll give her the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6058	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the legitimate concern about the economic situation and the labour market, about any impact, including on the risk of poverty in Austria, has perhaps triggered this special meeting today. I think only that we have so far come little further in terms of ideas and proposals, what we could actually do in Austria, or what might also be a job assignment for the Federal Government, which will go into the clause next week and may also make new proposals. [[Abg. Arbitrators: This week!]] Of course, the situation is worrying when you look at Germany, when you look at Italy, when you look at France – the whole euro area – and the European Union's relationship with Russia is, of course, deeply worrying from the point of view of our Greens. However, one has to put something out of the question: There has been a border crossing in the truest sense of the word – with soldiers, with equipment, with badges – and this cannot be left undecided. This was a clear violation of international law, and this must have consequences in this sense. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Of course, Austria has a special responsibility here too. We are, together with Ireland, the only two States that still have and live fully neutrality status. However, I also see Austria's special responsibility in the field of prevention and humanitarian support for people who are currently fleeing, and this has not yet been addressed. In Ukraine, the winter outbreak is at the doorstep. There are many people in the country on the run. It is not a question of ensuring heat supply, food supply, water supply, electricity at all. This is also an elementary responsibility that Austria should assume – and not exclusively the economic interests, be it those of the country or those of individual companies –: Prevention and the humanitarian situation on the ground of the people on the run, who now also need support, especially from Austria. Of course, one has to address the political question, and the OSCE plan is, from my point of view, worthy of support: keeping in mind the situation of refugees before the winter break-in, but also the idea of Ukraine's neutrality or alliance freedom, and a development towards this status, constitutionally secured – in the medium term, of course, decided – to also send on the journey; a constitutional reform, which must focus on human rights and, of course, minority rights, guaranteed minority rights, and above all, a special status for Eastern Ukraine. That's where all efforts have to be made. And it must be possible to distinguish Austrian foreign policy and European foreign policy from economic policy. This is a very legitimate approach. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] All the more harmful is what has happened in Austria, that the so-called South Stream Deal de facto has been finalized during the visit of President Putin to the so-called South Stream Deal, where it is a question of fixing a pipeline project, surrounded by Ukraine, to Western Europe, with billions of costs, which on the one hand, continues to drive Europe's dependence, but also Austria's, on the other hand, by the fact that both the pipeline network and the pipe thrust itself are in one hand – and that is particularly critical from my point of view. This project must not support Austria! This not only leads us to deeper political dependence, but also to massively restrict us in respect of human rights and international law. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That's a key question. And with that I am already at the Austrian perspective: What are the possibilities now to start projects in this rather difficult situation with the worse economic data, which can prove to be a positive contribution? We cannot influence Europe's policy to a hundred percent, but we know that the savings rate and the wrong fixedness on the budgets do not exactly favour investment and that this, overlaid, has also accelerated this economic downward spiral even further. This is a European issue. I also sometimes wish for a more intense or louder policy of Austria, which is also critical at this point. However, as far as Austria is concerned, the tax reform is, of course, a key element in the process of creating new jobs in the area of consumption, demand and structural change. This is not only a discharge, but, from my point of view, it is also an ecologicalisation. If you have to think about energy dependence and reduce the successively, then there is nothing wrong with providing a tax reform with ecological elements as well. I deeply miss the painful fact that there is still no discussion on the government bank, which takes this aspect into account. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] An account when we talk about discharge: Each year we apply – every Austrian, every Austrian – € 1700 to €2000 in energy imports costs. So you can discuss wage and income tax reduction – of course, we do, that is also important, and we will also present more concrete models here – but you also have to reduce these costs. This leads families in situations of energy poverty, in dependence. To reduce this by only 10 percent in three years would mean that we would have over 1 billion – exactly 1.3 billion € – additional resources in Austria, domestically for our boiler builders, for our solateurs, for our energy technicians. So to ignore this completely means to be blind to an economic-politically wise concept of creating something like a small green economic miracle with a reduction of dependence and a tax reform. TTIP was already talking about today. – Of course, we also demand a radical turnaround from the Federal Government as regards this policy of free trade agreements. So this secrecy, it's really embarrassing. Now there is this contract work CETA. It was leaked, but you can't talk about it because of secrecy clauses. I mean, we're in 2014. We owe the population transparency, glass negotiations, 100 percent. So that this is still Austrian politics, is really a witness to poverty. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Bitch.]] And where I really don't know anymore, Mr. Federal Chancellor, the Austrian position on the special claims rights for corporations is. So how is that now? – Thursday/Friday will be the final item in the negotiations on the Canadian Free Trade Agreement – Canada, Europe – in Ottawa in Canada. There, the special claims rights for companies are 100 percent inside – 100 percent! You say you reject it. – The Canadian-European agreement is the blueprint for the TTIP, and throughout the boulevard I see the photos: Federal Chancellor, Minister for Agriculture against TTIP, against Special Complaint Rights. What is the Austrian position? – The Minister of Economic Affairs, the Foreign Office has always given us a single answer in recent weeks and months: Austria is behind the special case law. – So this is your private opinion or isn’t it? You yourself have said we should ask Mitterlehner. We will do so tomorrow in detail, but this is not a transparent policy if one says “A” because it is better in the public, and on the other hand, behind closed doors another position, namely the smooth opposite, is being pushed forward. I'm condemning that. I do not see at all why you should get away with this delicate question. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Stroll.]] So I want Austria to have consequences! We don't need parallel jurisdiction. Austria has to pull the emergency line here, as it were! The fact that the old Commission, after the rejection of the citizens' initiative – by the way, a special class's democratic scandal – is still in this transition phase, which is still rapidly under control, must prevent Austria from doing so! Or it's not really your concern. We want to clarify this in all clarity and detail tomorrow: with the Deputy Chancellor and Minister for Economic Affairs, where I am currently doing so. Feels that he and not the Federal Chancellor are determining the position. Finally, what is also a special concern to me: Talking about the Austrian economic situation, one cannot ignore a chapter – and there we have a real problem of location – and that is the quality of our children and young people’s education. One of the key questions is whether we can redesign our education system in such a way that we do not lose thousands of young people every year who can de facto be passed on directly to the employment office at the age of 14 or 15. In this respect, I miss one: I originally thought there was now a bit of mobility in this newly formed government, in this newly formed government, but if you don't address this problem and also put away the ideological flaws – this is now more addressed to the ÖVP – then we really have a site problem in Austria. The education and training of our children and young people should be of the highest priority in industrial associations, the Chamber of Commerce, the Federal Government, and not environmental taxes or climate protection.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6135	Next, Mr. Klubobmann has Mag. Dr. Strolz. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6164	Madam President. Estimated government members! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear ladies and gentlemen at the gallery and at home! The Stronach team has served important topics here today: “Economic war, record unemployment and TTIP: Austria as a Marionette, caught between East and West.’ – This is a strong mix of topics, which is heard in the debate here: She's a little shredded. I also come to the point that Eva Glavischnig has made on the question of what concrete proposals could be taken away from this debate for an internal policy policy. I have listened very carefully to your contributions, your contributions, Katrin Nachbaur and Robert Lugar. [[towards Team Stronach]] For me, it's not quite consistent what you're serving here: On the one hand, Robert Lugar says that “for more than twenty years, the United States has been trying to impose on us all the stupidities that they make in their own country,” on the other hand, the final sentence of Kathrin Nachbaur’s speech of entry was on 29 October. October 2013: “My vision for Austria: I want to make the Austrian dream out of American Dream. Thank you. “ – Yes, okay. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. Rebaur: That means bringing entrepreneurship, self-reliance, independence!]] But if you listen to the Stronach team, you could almost believe that it comes directly from a strategy clause in the sense of repositioning and makes an alternative for Austria. I'm not quite sure that's what I'm going to do and that's what we're going to see. The FPÖ will also observe this closely, because this is probably particularly interesting to you. That would be your garden where we're grassed. [[Abg. Lugar: Thank you for the political advice!]] - Yes, please! You know the billing address: NEOS Club. On the question of the threat scenarios you have drawn here in the sense of an economic war, also a threat scenario: Is Austria caught? Is Austria a victim, a puppet? – There is a clear attitude: Austria is not a victim and must never be one. We must be a self-confident player – and this should interest the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. We are a member of the European Union, and – it has already been tailor-made today – the European Union is the most powerful economic area on this planet. But then I'm already with the Stronach team: Of course you have to appear at eye level here and take this power with you. In order for Europe to be able to do so, it has to develop together, so we will not tire out NEOS to say: If Europe wants to survive if Europe wants to play a role in the future if our children are not to play ball of foreign powers in 30 years, then Europe must continue to integrate into very important issues. This is not the vacuum cleaner, I am with you, these are not the light bulbs, but these are, at least, the common foreign and security policy, a common neighbourhood policy and this is also a coordinated economic policy. If we do not coordinate on these issues, Europe will no longer sit on the table at a G-8 or G-7 meeting in 2045. Europe will no longer play a role, Europe will then play ball of foreign powers. That is why we are determined to face those who feed the fantasies, we only have to build a fence around Austria, six meters high, which may still be protected by drones, and everything remains good. – This is not how this world works, because even the pants you sit on come from outside this fence, and also your shirt and your tie and your shoes and often also devices of daily use. – This is how our world works: networked. We will therefore always put the joint before the end of the separation. To TTIP: There's a lot of panic and a lot of cover-up. My question is – and that is why I look forward to the urgent debate that will be launched by the Greens tomorrow: The Federal Government has never revealed its attitude in this regard. Behind closed doors you hear something quite different than when you hit newspapers and hear certain placards of criticism. And of course we need transparent negotiations, and tomorrow we will also make this clear: Without transparency, such a thing will never find acceptance. We're in 2014. That's it! Perhaps we have a chance with a restart, with a new Commissioner. It comes from Scandinavia, and the Scandinavians have a tradition of transparency. Maybe that'll help. I still have a proposal to the Federal Government, as it is also about unemployment issues, about economic development: Almost a month ago, we presented a new economic and prosperity indicator, the so-called New WInd. I believe, Mr Bundeskanzler, that it is essential that budget planning, including economic policy development, is no longer based solely on a past-oriented characteristic such as gross domestic product. That's what young Kennedy has seen. We have not gone much further since then, and that is why, together with experts, we have developed a new wealth indicator, together with Peter Hajek and Josef Obergantschnig, the representative of ARUS, the Agency for Risk Management, Business Development and Location Management, and we would like to include forward-looking and past indicators. There are 36 indicators, a holistic view: The eco-social market economy is here on board – I hope in applause. I have already sent this to the Minister of Finance, but unfortunately I have not yet received an answer. I beg you to ask. We are happy to make this available as a planning tool. We have been able to draw extremely revealing insights from these 36 indicators that should alert Austria: In the analysis of the 28 EU countries, Austria is a total of 7th place in the total number of points. Austria, if you take only half of the indicators that represent the past, is second in Europe, so Austria has a great past. But it also threatens to realize that the high time is over for a long time, because if you only take the future-oriented indicators of this New Wind, then we are on 11. It's all right. That is, Austria threatens a loss of prosperity, and that means that Austria also threatens a loss of social well-being. And since I see a lot of young people up there: [[the speaker looks towards gallery]] This concerns these young people! If we do not decisively counter the loss of places in innovation comparisons, if we continue to lose places in comparisons with the location, if we do not make up places and consolidate our position in the poor middle of education, if unemployment continues to rise to record values, if government debt continues to rise, then all key figures are on the way – at least for those young people who sit and watch here. That's why my warning to the government is: We need courageous, determined development based on sustainable, holistic figures. We provide this NewWInd to you; the investment we have made is also happy to take over the NEOS Club. We would be pleased if you had this more holistic look, this sustainable look, this eco-social view, in which we have not only past economic data, but also education, family, social aspects, if you made this a basis for sustainable successful budget development. He's in your hands here.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6250	The next item is the report by Mr Vetter. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6271	Greetings, Madam President! Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! With all legitimate criticism of the economic conditions, with all the even more legitimate criticism of the Federal Government and with all the critical and notable criticism of the Neos Clubman, which has just been expressed, I would like to draw attention to two functions of the economy. Most of us have a mobile phone, most of us have a car, most of us have a computer, a TV. The least of these things were made in Austria. We don't even know where these things were all made, but we use them all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fekter.]] – We all use them and don’t know where they come from. We are therefore not getting poorer because we buy or use them, on the contrary! On the basis of the theory of comparative costs, we are actually becoming all richer, all richer, because there is an international division of labour. The prosperity of all peoples, of all nations, is based on the fact that we have an international division of labour. This is already written by Adam Smith in his book “The Prosperity of Nations” in 1776, and we should also remember that when we speak of trade restrictions or trade sanctions, if we believe that people seem to want it because it is good. - That's the one aspect. Economy is never a zero-sum game, but we buy something because we believe it's a win-win situation for us, so the division of labour is based on our economic prosperity. – This is the one function I would like to draw our attention to; the other is the peace function of international trade. People come together on every market, people come together on every bazaar. They get to know each other, get to understand each other, and when we do, also between the countries – then there is less room for discord, for enmity between the peoples and the like. It is the task of a responsible policy to also take people the fear of internationality, to take away from globalisation, from the differentness of bringing people together and bringing people together. It is no place for spiritual separatism, boundaries, walls, and peace fatigue. There are so many examples in history where the construction of barriers, of economic sanctions, has finally ended in a disaster. There was a time – by the way the same, in which Russian was one of the ten official parliamentary languages in this House – when Austria waged an economic war, the so-called pig war, with Serbia between 1906 and 1906. All of these things have ultimately led to a great disaster. I don't think it's the policy's job to punish everywhere, because behind this sanctions policy is mentality: I am good; I punish, therefore I am good; I punish, so I am. – This is a false mentality! It also sometimes prevails in our house – that is self-critically noted – if we in some things impose administrative penalties to educate people. This “I am punishing, so I am good!” is the wrong way, and he is also internationally wrong, ladies and gentlemen, and he can lead in the wrong direction. This is particularly true of Austria, which would not be viable as a small and open economy alone. Consider what was after the First World War, how much one has doubted the viability of this country, and today, as a small and open economy, we are doing quite well in comparison to the whole world. There is no place for isolationism, no place for mechanism, no place for protectionism, ladies and gentlemen! As has been said, it is up to politics to frighten people. Politics should not be run on the basis of people-breaking emotions! Anti-European, anti-American, anti-Russian emotions are not in place if we also want to promote peace through trade. Trade increases prosperity and brings peace. We should not lose sight of these two points in this debate. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6338	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), who have spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6360	I've read the Drings of the Stronach team at least three times now, and I still don't know myself. It is so contradictoryly formulated! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Reciprocating.]] I also believe that Frank has not read that, because if I have the formulation in there – this longing formulation! – Read, national governments should again have “the possibility of ‘ordering intervention’”, then I have never heard of this from the Stronach team – that’s something new! - and not even Master Frank. [[Rejoicing at the ÖVP]] There, I have to say, is also a clear position missing: Do you want a couple of private individuals to sit down and then make a kind of parallel jurisdiction and then condemn states to billions of payments or don't you want it? [[Abg. Rebauber: We will be happy to explain this tomorrow!]] I can't read it out. Frank wants the golden rule: He doesn't want any rules at all. He doesn't want investor protection or other court decisions, but Frank himself is enough, I know. [[Abg. Post-Bauer: Mr. Kogler understood!]] I've already found myself with that. That's his position. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But as a consequence, when this comes – that is why we are so opposed to the fact that this Canadian free trade agreement is inside and later in the US with the EU – the standards are really at risk, this model of society in Europe and, above all, in Austria. [[Abg. Kogler: You have to say that in time until the day after tomorrow!]] - No one can want that! This can be really read out of the whole thing, so I miss a very clear demand in your urgent. No, you don't write that. Why not? [[Abg. Rebaur: Because you don't know enough about it because people are negotiating in the dark!]] I come next time you formulate, maybe to your club meeting and look at it again before, then I might be a little easier if I have to talk about it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So yes to prose, but no to demand a clear decision. Moreover, “the press” writes that the EU is actually killing this entire free trade agreement with its mystery – in the daily newspaper they are for the Free Trade Agreement – because it always goes: Secret, secret, secret, until everyone gets so scared that everyone is against it. So that's their direction, we're against it for reasons of content. The Federal Chancellor has clearly explained himself there, and Mr Kogler, Mr Kogler, is the head of the government, and that is why, I believe, the matter is clarified. [[Abg. Rebaur: Why doesn't he say that in Brussels?]] [[Abg. Kogler: Now you just need to explain to the vice chancellor that he's the boss!]] But now I come to another point – I still have so many points – on the question of Russia/Ukraine. To this end, I have to tell you: If, on the one hand, one wants to have an economic link between the Russian Economic Area and the Ukrainian Economic Area with the EU, then one cannot, of course, step by step with NATO memberships ever closer to Moscow. This does not fit in, the eastern partnership of Sweden and Poland, I believe, starting in 2009, and this expansion of NATO. Egon Bahr says perfectly correctly in an interview in the “Mirror”: There are two ways: Security with Russia or security against Russia! – I am clearly in favour of security with Russia, since I do not want us to fight again, like years ago, at peace demonstrations for the elimination of nuclear missiles in Europe. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Podgorica]] It was about Pershing II, SS 20, and if it had gone on, we would have been dead as the very first, in the course of a nuclear war. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler.]] Jacob Augstein rightly writes that there is also the danger of “a war by mistake. ” I know, it's her last wish. It is therefore necessary to resolve security with Russia and not against Russia. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Podgorschek.]] You both have to do something. [[Abg. Rebaur: But do you know that you are totally arguing against your party line?]] I am one of those who say, of course, that both sides have to do something, quite clearly. But this is a very crucial aspect in this context, and we need the economic areas of Russia and Ukraine in order not to get into a recession in Europe and beyond. That's why, I think, it's important. NATO maneuvers in Ukraine, what are you doing? [[Deputies Kogler and Podgorschek: Right!]] Considered, discussed arms supplies to Ukraine, what is this? – No one can really understand this, so I don't understand. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and FPÖ as well as representatives of Greens and Team Stronach.]] However, the colleagues from the FPÖ voted somewhat too early, because it is of course not a contribution to active neutrality and foreign policy, if one travels in the form of a Moravian Gudenus to Moscow and, honestly, there speaks in a way that is not recognizable that our base here in Austria is the active foreign and neutrality policy. That's where I have to offer myself as an interlocutor for both sides here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Podgorschek.]] I therefore believe that this was counterproductive, but you know that anyway. Your eyes just tell me that you share my opinion on this. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice.]] I remember the previous praises. Remember how the CCP chairmen have always pilgrimaged to Moscow and there have given their praise and love statements! In Russian, no one's done it, Gudenus was the first. I have to tell you, that was an achievement, but I admit: An invitation in the Church of Saviour, who can say no? Of course, this is something where you say I get a certain aura as a savior, so I have to report to the floor. [[Abg. Podgorschek: Well, that's it!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now really, that's a coolest thing. It is important, as in reality, to introduce a lot of peace-political considerations – refugees, human fates, tragedies and an immediate threat hundreds of miles away from Vienna also for us here in Austria. No one can want the escalation level to go up so far until perhaps, as Jacob Augstein has done, a war comes by mistake. No one can want that! This must, I think, also be formulated uniformly and uniformly expressed here, and one must also act together. There must also be participation by the Eastern European countries who, of course, rightly have certain fears out of their history. This is understood, but the construction of the European Union is simply and simply one that is a community of economics, a social, a political, but above all a community of peace, and that is why it must fight.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6580	The next item is the report by Mr Ing. Schools. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6602	Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Dear ladies and gentlemen in the High House! Dear spectator at home! In Ukraine, it's shot. You can't speak like that or you can't speak beautiful, it's going to be shot! And this new kind of warfare without a declaration of war is something we need to learn first. We're surprised that there's a war where soldiers don't have rank marks. We see these famous green males who then suddenly show up there and there and happen to have a few hundred tanks or suddenly start shooting somewhere on vacation as soldiers. – No one can pretend that this is not an action that is completely cold and coolly planned by Russia, and no one can pretend that we don't care. It is all right that the Federal Chancellor says that this is not indifferent for Austria. And if the European Union now says to the Russian President: You have gone a step too far! and not by saying, “You, you!”, as in the children’s room, but just like parties that are serious about each other, do so if the European Union says so, then it is serious, then the corner and edges have. Why does she say that? Who's got anything of it? – We probably don’t do it for Ukraine! We are probably doing this for ourselves, because if Europe wants to be taken seriously in any treaty work – whether it be here, with Russia or in the negotiations with America – we will be able to expect Europe itself to know what it wants to be self-confident and to say that we want it, we can, there are the borders and there we are no longer going with it. All those who call for a strong attitude at TTIP, in some respects rightly, must be proud of Europe precisely because Europe has reached a common opinion on this issue. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The Russian President, in his conflict planning – and if you look closely at it, it is noted that one and a half years ago he obviously made this decision – set up a master plan with an escalation scenario in which measures and countermeasures were planned and various steps were taken slowly and safely. He also expected the European Union to do something and, as a countermeasure, to try to activate the Putin friends in Europe itself. With you, he has already succeeded, others will say in time: [[towards FPÖ]] Well, you don't have to! That's stupid! Who knows! That's what's happening to us ourselves, and that's not just for those! It's about ourselves. It's always about ourselves! Yes! Putin has now also chosen the food industry as a future partner for work against sanctions. I have to say this quite openly: It is depressing to know that I am used as a farmer on Mr Putin's chess board to talk about the sanctions of the European Union. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] I don't want this, I'm on Europe! [[Abg. Steinbichler: That's not true!]] I would like Europe to abolish these sanctions that Putin has declared against us in such a way that Europe is not affected and affected by them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Whenever someone is attacked, one will take defense action. And if Europe has now taken these steps to put Putin in the barriers, it is likely that it will also be necessary to ensure that those whom it has chosen as opposing victims will not be left behind, that they will not be left in the rain. However, the resources of the agricultural policy we have today are too little, because they are designed for normal operation, but not for a crisis and war situation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] We now need additional measures, financed by the general pots, because this must be done in the general defence interest of Europe. It's about our independence. [[Calls.]] – Unfortunately, I don't have so much speaking time anymore, so I ask not to clap. – It is really about our European independence and that we farmers endure it. That is why we need export measures. We need to clear the markets. We need to protect the exporters. We need to protect the companies that can be involved in European quality competition. And we have to help that with our exports we can really get where demand exists. We need a veterinary agreement with China, we need trade agreements with individual countries, and we are already on the subject of international agreements. We need these agreements, because we are an export country. Our products have the quality that is the best in the world for good and for which one is willing to pay. And there we have to go with our products, that must be possible for us, and so we will continue. With support from all of you, we can guarantee you that in the future you will continue to get a cut from Austria, delivered by farmers who know how it goes, with the quality of an AMA quality seal – but that will only exist if we master this crisis so that there are still farmers afterwards. We're working on it and we need your help!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6674	Next item is the report by Mr Themessl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6696	Madam President. Mr Bun-Deskanzler! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that the economic and labour market situation in Europe and thus also in Austria are not rosy is, I believe, one-bright opinion across all parties, because it is simply fact. The problem this federal government has is that we will not come to a green branch for as long as you are not able or willing to really see the state of the state as a state of state and not speak it as beautifully as you need it. I would like to give you an example of the unemployment rates mentioned by you. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] Federal Chancellor! They have spoken of 287 000 unemployed people in Austria. Her Minister of Labour is at least so fair that he takes the training into account. So in August we had 355,000 unemployed in Austria. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] In August, the AMS issued an issue stating that the number of long-term unemployed, those who are unemployed for over a year and are not included in statistics, is 75 000. In other words, unemployment is well over 400 000 people in Austria. It should also be noted that we have the youngest pensioners throughout Europe – you always forget that. And then you talk about 4.9 percent unemployment and say that we are the best in Europe, which is why we need to do nothing on and on our own. I am now bringing you the example of Switzerland. Switzerland has as many inhabitants as Austria, even more than eight million, has about the same number of employees, namely about 3.5 million, and had an effective unemployment rate of 128 000 in August. There are not two or three statistics, however, where one can hide the unemployed and the statistics so beautiful. These are the effective figures, including those in training. Switzerland thus has an unemployment of 3.2 percent. That's right. – And now explain to the Austrians that you are 430 000 unemployed to 4.9 percent! You can't explain that to anyone. And as long as you are not ready to really face the state of affairs, you will not be willing to change anything because you want to make people aware that we are the best in Europe anyway – Switzerland is also part of Europe; [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] They know that it is even in the heart of Europe – and for so long nothing will change. It's not like there were good approaches. Since 2008, we have been having this economic and financial crisis, and since 2008, there have been proposals on how to change something, even on the part of the ÖVP, also on the part of the Social Democrats. The question therefore arises: Why don't you do it? Now I'm bringing a parade example: The President of the Economic Chamber comes from these ranks, from the black half of the empire. [[towards ÖVP]] He keeps talking about proposals. It is interesting that he is obviously no longer competent that it would be better to stop talking to the economy because he is sitting in all the bodies that decide what you have in the government programme. And then, in this spring, the Austrian Chamber of Economics in the Economics and Industry Parliament made two applications, which include very good proposals, such as: no tax increase, no introduction of new taxes, finally redeployment of bureaucracy, and, and so on. This request was carried by the blacks in the Economic Parliament, by the Reds – also the Social Democratic economy was for it – and by us, only the Greens were not involved. And now I'm asking you: I tabled these requests in Parliament at the last part-session before the summer break, and all the economic allies from both sides rejected their own motion from the Economic and Social Parliament. [[towards ÖVP]] [[towards SPÖ]] And then wait All of you serious that you are still credible in implementing any reforms that we can get out of the dilemma that we are in, that we are preventing damage? If You are not able to perceive the state of the situation as such, then you will never be able to change it.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6778	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6799	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of the autumn session, I would like at least to say or hold a few points for the Stenographical Protocol, even with regard to my group, because it is indeed important issues, even if perhaps not all of them. That's what I'm talking about. That's the best thing you can do now from the urgent one here. I would like to start with Ukraine, the Ukraine-Russia conflict and to strengthen the possible role of Austria. There has already been a lot of playful opportunities, I believe, but it is no longer possible to do much more than the Federal Chancellor has suggested, but it is never too late. How's it going? – It must be perfectly clear that any Ukraine solution – I think Cap has said that too – can only ultimately go with Russia and not against Russia. This would result in NATO also having to stand up a little diplo-matic and clever in the truest sense of the word, namely, further behind. In any case, you will not be able to find out a few things about the Austrian line now, and this is not only to be said to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic. In fact, it would have been a good opportunity to strengthen the role of Austria within the Union as regards the capacity to mediate between the Union and Russia, but also NATO and Russia, in particular, even if this was interpreted as being superior, to make proposals for a Ukraine solution, partly out of the status we have long held. There have been advances, among other things by Peter Pilz – tomorrow it will become a topic again – as such a plan can look out. I mean, it's not too late yet, but you don't get around here to hold down how the process was. So: Several Austrian Presidents, once that of the Republic, another time or at the same time that of the Chamber of Commerce, have, I believe, not taken up this in the old Kreisky tradition and said: Let's see what we can do!, but in the flashing eyes it was obvious the interest in the shops, one has behaved so after, and that was then relatively embarrassing, isn't it? We already had this: The red carpet in the Chamber of Commerce was rolled out, the Federal President with a perhaps good inspiration, but also with him in the tow during this production, where Mr Putin Standing Ovations were donated. This is what the President of the Chamber of Economics now explains as a business accident – I once heard a funny interview; if it were not so tragic, it would be funny. Strangely, yes, because some Russian honor rations in the first or second row have jumped up, then all the others are also jumped up. This is the Austrian foreign and economic policy: When the Russians jump up, we jump up quickly! This is, of course, a problem insofar as, in the consequence, or more or less at the same time, the Union has developed a line that may not have been the best and smartest at this point, only: Austria has not made use of its status again, having been involved in it, has become a mediator and offered what would be possible with our status, as we have concluded the contracts. Nothing of that. The Federal Chancellor then – from a certain point of view it may not have been possible any more – he then, as I am about to skip a few things, tried to re-start the Austrian position from there, so to speak, which is now a very tight one, namely to say: In the moment – and I understand this first as a plausible argument – in which it is in the truest sense of I think that even with Your Majesty's badges, we say it so salopp: Game over as far as this is concerned. All of this is a mutual provocation, but with the victim balance there, the whole thing is very tragic, and therefore, of course, this is reasonable. But maybe it's about finding back anyway – I think it's also reasonable that you get out of this spiral – and that's how it's going about it. We may hear more about this tomorrow, but the current Austrian line to roll Putin out a red carpet and three weeks later to hit hands together in the realization: Ui, the Putin is a Putinist, that's, I think, hard to improve. In a field of economic policy, we are still on complete balance. Years ago – for many other reasons, but among other things from this – we had to make ourselves on the following path: much more out of the dependence on precisely a great power in oil and, above all, gas. That was total nonsense. You also have to learn from this story, because we have to do something more. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I remember the slogan that has been smiled by some: ‘Pellets instead of Putin’. - Okay, a reduction, but that has something wise. But what does the same set in the Chamber of Commerce do at the same time under the jubilation of whom – I don't know who rejoiced there? There is an extra sign of the South Stream Treaty. And this is finally too far to me if some OMC managers dominate Austrian EU and foreign policy! There's a line below drawn. This does not fit in with what Mr Bundeskanzler says. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I also do not have the solution from the outset exactly, even now it is difficult – I congratulate everyone who always knew everything best – but these contradictions are resolved – they are soluble. There can be a certain role for and an offer from Austria. That's what we're working on. As far as the European economic situation is concerned, I believe – otherwise – that this has been discussed, there will be no way by which this dramatic economic development, into which we have come back, will admit to the realization that it cannot be the permanent cutback alone either. – Yes!, to the structural reforms in these countries, but there must also be scope for investment, otherwise it will go down immanently. We do not even need special national economic knowledge. The Minister of Finance has referred to his advantages of business knowledge, so to speak. In his entry into Milan at the informal ECOFIN – known as the most important ones – he has actually done nothing more than follow this old, in my opinion, false Merkel mainstream. Mrs Merkel is already increasingly and rightly insulated in Europe for this, even by Juncker. So it will come, so this thing must prevail: more room for investment. And with that, I'm back to the keyword I said before: There is enough to do on this continent. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] For all these ecological high-tech energy investments – and this does not necessarily have to go along with the reduction of all standards, quite the contrary – the scope must be created, otherwise, economically known, we, Perceptible with a free eye, manoeuvring into a downward spiral, only because any dogmas and principles need to be driven further through the arena. I hope that this will change and that Austria will make a contribution. The government will have to recognize a line at the top, for it is already like this: Schelling goes there and actually represents something different than the Chancellor says here. It's just like that. Finally, I come to the issue of TTIP, where this is particularly obvious. – Mr Bundeskanzler, if you say that these rights of association will be opposed, perhaps even in the Council, I say: Yes, wonderful! I'm just wondering: What did Mr. Vice-Chancellor ride? He will probably have given the Austrian ambassadors and negotiators the mandate. They won't have been on the 8th. In May, our Austrian negotiator in the Council commissioned him to sit there and say: Austria is fully in favour of these group rights of vulgo investment protection clauses. That's what he says there, and he's also a philosopher on how to get this tactically well over the rounds, because you're getting problems in the public. That is what we are at the next point. It's not just a mystery, it's an aggressive secrecy that's being operated here. You will find that on your head – that has already been said anyway – and that is not the case! Not only is it not possible, it also belongs to steps. We will deal with this tomorrow, but then it is really urgent that the biggest damage will be prevented at this EU-Canada summit in the day-to-day and the next day – by the way, it does not look so bad – and the right thing is happening. But the Austrian government will have to declare itself until then. Josef Cap says: The chancellor is the head of government. – Yes, what kind of head of government is this when he explains here – not only in the “Kronen Zeitung” anymore – but the Austrian representative – we will present the protocols to you tomorrow, these are parliamentary materials; those who are a bit diligent and who deal with EU policies will be able to understand all of this – exactly the opposite? – And now it has nothing to do with fair trade, free trade or anything else, it is exclusively about these corporate rights, which are an evil unicum for themselves. This is a question of legal standards, of judicial standards. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] This is all about the standards of parliamentary democracy. We cannot allow them to fail – and not in such a devious way at all. - More tomorrow!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6933	Next word: Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6954	Mr President. Mr. Bundeskanzler! Dear members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to this all-inclusive request from the Stronach team, I share the concern. It is absolutely true that it has economic consequences, of course, if you listen to a solidarity pact. However, I cannot understand it if we on the one hand call ourselves an economic liberal, but on the other we forget the European context and European solidarity. However, the bigger problem we have at the moment is another one. I speak as an entrepreneur, I also speak here as a touristist: I have to fight sanctions be. It affects me that in the tourism sector – apart from the fact that Ukrainians can only travel on vacation in the future in the future – we will have 50 percent less Russian guests in the coming winter. As this is linked to the sanctions and also to the booking behaviour, I am even more concerned that these painful sanctions are also directed against the Russians and against the Russian population. But for me as a world citizen, there are no alternatives to sanctions and against this system of Putin. [[Congratulation with NEOS and Greens.]] So it remains to be hoped that these European sanctions will also have some effect. It's probably still hoping. We don't have it in our hands. We have no other alternatives either. – Yes, the sanctions will be sensitive to our economic location. It is for this reason that we should also be careful to pay particular attention to what we have to do in our own country. We should not ask for subsidies if sales failures et cetera occur, but we must get there: We must not take away anything from people in advance to spit them back on promotions. That's exactly the problem. Mr Haubner first mentioned it very aptly, he said we have inflated working time laws, we have an inflated trade order. – They were in the government for 10,000 days and did not do anything, but today you stand there and say we need to change something. I find it rather regrettable that this is happening on the back of the citizens, on the back of the workers. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] What we need – I have to say quite honestly: We must first start in the country to achieve a discharge of citizens. We need to push ahead with the detachment of entrepreneurs. The former vice-channer Spindelegger has spoken of “detachment”, now he has disappeared like Houdini – he is no longer there – and nothing gets untapped! This is the sadness of the whole story that nothing is happening here at all. It is to be feared that this excuse, because of the sanctions, we cannot implement reforms because it concerns our economy. This is the only creative art that this government is still doing. If the German Chancellor already brings the example of Germany, it is also possible to say that Germany has launched reforms under Merkel. We in Austria are always only talking about reforms, but these reforms are usually shubbled. And I find that embarrassing. Look at Mr. Schäuble! He's talking about competition among the countries. Why should we not have this competition among the countries? Why do we not take up this competition among the countries? If, moreover, Mr Rupprechter, what I think is very useful, speaks of the apple we should enjoy every day, so that we can help our agriculture, whatever I think is useful, then I regret the thinking of the camp between the Ministries. As it concerns tourism in particular, I am sorry that the Minister of Tourism and the Minister of Agriculture are not looking for a concept for a tourist and agricultural application for Austria. Today, we will make proposals on working time flexibility and shop opening times. And I will look at Mr Haubner's voting behaviour when it comes to working time flexibility. With regard to the simplification of company start-ups: Delete the minimum-coast! The company tax should be abolished immediately. Enable employee participations! Make it possible for employees to have a transparent wage mark! This is mainly addressed to the left half. We will bring each of these points. Economic recovery can only be achieved through increased purchasing power in this country. As long as you deduct 50 percent of your wages and flow 50 percent into the system, something is lazy in this state.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7035	Next, Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7057	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciated spectators at the visitor gallery and especially in front of the televisions at home! I think today is a historic day for this house. It is the first special meeting requested by the Stronach team. [[Abg. Lopatka: Go! That's historical?]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] It is also a historic day because, following my words, a motion for a resolution on a law that costs nothing, but only brings something, namely the environment, that brings something to the climate that benefits health and regional jobs. I can bring these to the end of my speech. Perhaps in advance to the statements by Klubobmann Schieder, who just came in, and those of Mr Cap, who spoke about the credibility of the Stronach team. – Well, I love it! You can prove this today or at the next meetings, after I have tabled the resolution for the Austrian Quality Seal Act. Nothing has been done since 2009. Since 2009, this has been negated! On the back of the citizens, on the back of the local EPCs and SMEs and domestic agriculture, it is delayed that there will finally be a clear product label here. This has to do with international trade. Of course, I am talking about food because of my profession. However, I would like to start with a very different subject concerning our employees. The German football world champion sells Adidas jerseys, which can be purchased around 89 €. [[The speaker keeps the copy of a newspaper article up to date.]] Therefore, do we need even more free trade agreements so that the Chinese who produces this jersey will receive 0.17 percent of the wage? Do we really want that? These are typical workers' issues. These are topics, Mr Cap, where you can prove your credibility in these free trade agreements. I think that's very important. Austrian Schlagermusik has taken up these misdevelopments. Hubert von Goisern sings: ‘Brenna tuats guat’. Finally, Rainhard Fendrich, with his hit “Better won’t be” has also jumped on this topic: “Growth has robbed them of the last obstacles.” It is better not to put it to the fore: unscrupulous growth of groups on the backs of workers, on the backs of small and medium-sized enterprises, on the backs of domestic agriculture without regard to losses! I am also in charge of 13 grandchildren, for the future of our young people, who should enjoy some kind of prosperity as we can enjoy it. I think that's very important. 600,000 concerned citizens have already signed TTIP. In the Upper Austrian communities, resolutions are currently being decided that a democratic discussion process will be initiated, that we will learn the content of the negotiation of this agreement. Who for God's sake will buy anything in this world if he does not know what he is buying? [[Abg. Arbitrators: I don't buy anything at all!]] This is the crazy thing in the sense that national parliaments are to be removed on this issue and that it is being passed by the corporations. Mr President, I should like to make one point: We have no export problem in Austria, not at all! Austrian agriculture, the Austrian food industry has no export problem at all, but we have an import problem. That's exactly the problem I've been talking about several times here, see false marking in the slaughterhouses. That's what's affecting me. I took another Taferl. [[The speaker introduces a table on the speaker’s desk, which reads among other things: “Spitz: The best juice for the country comes from our hand.”]] If, in the paper of representation of interests – please, in no party paper, but in the paper of representation of interests – a fruit juice producer is recruited – I could call the Tyroleans as well – that he takes only fruit from domestic scatter meadows to ensure regional, small-structured agriculture, but then one has apple piles higher than residences of Polish origin – yes, friends, that has nothing to do with food labelling! Or the next example, Mr. Klubobmann Schieder. Our companies speak of “regionality” and “fresh from the farm”. [[The speaker places a second panel on the speaker’s desk, on which a building complex next to a motorway can be seen.]] At the same time, a company is building the largest cooling logistics in Austria in Sattledt. - Well, you think I'm in there? And why did I have to be photographed in spring with Egyptian heury earth apples that I bought from an Austrian close-up supplier? But the “Eferdinger Landl” earthenwares we have to pack in! Or if the herb farmers pack herb in now, because it is not bought, then let's look at where the replacement herb comes from! What business is being done on the back of consumers with false declarations is simply not to stop! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Before I put forward the motion for a resolution, I can say something to TiSA. It is really interesting that the mayor of Nuremberg, Dr. Maly, must draw attention to the fact that at TiSA, besides the service agreements, the sewer and water industry is also included. Let's offer that? There's really fire on the roof! Mr. Federal Chancellor, also Mr. Minister, I remember when you said and gave me your hand on it: The Austrian standards are kept and not undermined. - We have to ask for that. We need to know what is being done. We need to know what the content of the negotiations is. It is also essential that work places have been addressed. Of course, all of this is related. Our club wife Kathrin Nachbaur and the previous speakers have already mentioned it. In rural areas, 150 000 valuable small farms have been closed in the last 20 years. These are exactly the 450 000 unemployed we have, because each farm secures a job in the up and down-to-earth area. This is the thinning of rural areas. This is the loss of economic power in rural areas and this is a high loss of quality of life. Where young people experience a great youth, where older people can grow up cheaply and cheaply in dignity, where they have always worked, there will be locked. These are the effects of such agreements, of such free trade agreements. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I ask all political groups, because all of these developments are concerned with support and that we finally get a verifiable food label. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7161	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Steinbichler is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7246	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7267	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Yes, the urgent request we are discussing today contains a lot of inconsistency. The important thing seems to be: be: Now it has to be, something has to be stopped immediately. – You find this most common in your request. They are addressing TTIP, which was also the subject of my previous speaker. It's been working on us here in the high house for many years. We also discussed TTIP and CETA in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection last week. The TTIP debate can be taken very well into account, namely: In Berlin, right in front of the Brandenburg Gate, there is a huge Trojan horse, and there are activists, members of an environmental NGO, who keep a transparency up, and on it says: Stop TTIP! This image – you may have seen it in the media last week – is particularly expressing one thing: enormous distrust of the European Commission, which is leading the negotiations for the EU, of the US, which many have entrusted with virtually everything since the NSA scandal was over and over decades, but also enormous distrust of whether what we have been working out here in Austria, what we are fighting in the EU, can also be preserved and preserved. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To be honest, no one can blame this mistrust, because the negotiations have been on since July 2013, but there is actually very little to do with this. Although the Commission is trying to inform us, to inform the public or even to involve us, it does not. As long as this does not change, no trust will be established. But without this confidence – and I believe this can already be said today – TTIP will not receive a majority, no more than other free trade agreements and free trade agreements that do not meet the requirements. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As long as there are no fundamental reservations, free trade must be suspected of helping only corporations and not people – and then it would be useless! And I would also like to say: It would be a shame because free trade could also lead to the opposite, namely that our prosperity is increasing instead of reducing the number of people finding jobs instead of losing them, and that products are getting better and not worse. However, the Gretchen question will be whether companies should be granted the possibility of appeal before special courts. That's what I'm asking myself: Can anyone seriously imagine that a medium-sized Carinthian machine manufacturer is suing the US because their machines are not admitted to the US market?- Oh, my God! And even if she did, does someone seriously believe that if she complains, she would have a realistic chance to get right?- Oh, my God! Because the US has won all these procedures so far. Finally, even all assurances that are now being given by the EU Commission can be worthless, because the Commission does not decide. Indeed, three randomly selected persons will decide on any list. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is indeed a Trojan horse. And we don't want that! With regard to the crisis in Ukraine, which is also addressed in your application, the Federal Chancellor or the Federal Government is taking the only possible path, namely that of dialogue. In this context, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I call for broad support of this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7374	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mrs Muttonen is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7447	Next speaker: (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7468	Mr President. Estimated government members! Ladies and gentlemen. We have an interesting theme mix today, but one thing is clear: Austria was never a puppet between East and West, neither in the monarchy nor after the two world wars, during the Cold War, nor even after the opening of the East. Austria has been and is still a hub between East and West, a hub of international diplomacy, which we also owe to the settlement of many international organisations, and a hub of economic contacts, as before the EU's opening, many companies have established themselves in Vienna and the surrounding area in order to build up their eastern markets strategically. Austria has also risen, above all, thanks to this East-West relationship with the export nation, which is the basis of our prosperity, because, as Mr Haubner has already mentioned, we produce six out of ten euros in foreign trade. Assuming external trade: As an economic representative, I am not a friend of sanctions either. Because the counter-sanctions of the Russian government concern our agriculture and, above all, our food businesses. However, it is possible to do so. Human rights violations and violations of international law of the Russian government do not take away without reaction, for what happens in Ukraine is major Russian imperialism in pure culture. It is now important that we use all the means of dialogue to quickly reach diplomatic solutions and to make progress. These negotiations involve not only our Federal Government but also our Commissioner for Neighbourhood Gio Hahn in his new role so that sanctions can be removed as soon as possible. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mrs Nachbauer, in her speech, said that there were thousands of farms affected by sanctions. The fact is: At present, about 500 food businesses that deliver to Russia and Ukraine are affected. We are still lucky about the accident, because it is primarily industrial companies that have planned their market entry into Russia strategicly, which have also analysed the political conditions there and which therefore also have a plan B. For example, in the Greater Linz area, we have a pastry manufacturer who now supplies the Russian market via its outside office in Jordan. There are also a number of support measures on the part of the Federal Government and the social partners, from short-time work to job foundations to extension of guarantee instruments, such as operating funds guarantees and an export offensive to remote markets, because we need not only to increase private consumption, but above all to export goods and services to non-European countries. We know that EU markets are currently weakening, so I am surprised that the Stronach team is criticising sanctions on the one hand, because jobs are at risk, but on the other hand it does not recognize the chance of the free trade agreements with Canada and with the USA for Austria. Minister of Economic Affairs Mitterlehner has also criticized the way in which the negotiations are going, but a consultation mechanism has just been launched at CETA on the protection of investment in the debate. After all, CETA would increase exports of €500 million per year and create 20 000 new jobs through TTIP. I therefore ask that this polemic discussion be ended and that the debates be directed from hatred to the point of view, including media coverage, because the fact is that it is easier for our entrepreneurs to deliver into democratic, rule-of-law industrial nations, especially in view of what is now happening in the East. As the talk was already about sick people today: The sickening of our business location does not make use of anyone. Our entrepreneurs are also quite nervous about this. I therefore call for constructive cooperation with the new government team, in particular with our Minister of Finance, in the announced form of tax, administrative and bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7533	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Kassinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7554	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! There has now been a lot of talk about foreign policy, and I will not address that. I Concentrate Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. The introduction to the present request shall specify the following: ‘The (economic) situation in Austria is worrying. The consequences of the long-term activity of the so-called ‘Great Coalition’ are expressed in record unemployment, record debt and record and record tax rates.’ I would like to complement this statement, which I fully support, with opinions from well-known representatives from Austria's economy. For example, the president of the Industrial Association of Styria said: “But what is the recipe against unemployment? A competitive economy and nothing else! Everything else is scrambled!" [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And this representative of the economy also explains: “Austria’s problems are a fivefold: high costs, lack of flexibility, educational deficits, bureaucracy, encrusted state structures. Instead of the glorious sevens the lamentable five." They have been talking about reforms for years – but nothing will be implemented! This SPÖ/ÖVP federal government is trapped, tied up, in hostages of a system that: They themselves have created: in a crystallized system of federalism with powerful state icons, which naturally represent and enforce particular interests, in a system of consolidated social partners based on forced membership, with the Chamber of Labour, the Chamber of Commerce, the ÖGB and ÖAAB, which naturally represent and enforce particular interests, in a system of banking and financial sectors, which you have left as responsible for this almost limitless freedoms and remain, instead of regulating where it is necessary, and where you are now wondering that you are confronted with the negative effects of these exploited freedoms. But it doesn't matter, the tax payer's damage anyway. That's your system! And you won't really change the essentials of it. However, this system, with this structure, will not allow the Republic of Austria to exist in the long term in international competition. This system is simply not suitable for the future. We already see it now: We have been falling back for years in all major international comparisons with regard to competitiveness and innovation. The International Monetary Fund, in its current country review of September 2014 on Austria, notes the following: In 2014, the government debt level will be 80 percent of GDP and thus be higher than in any other European country with triple-A rating. Sustainable budget surpluses – the speech is about budget surpluses! – 0.5 percent of economic performance is generated until debt has fallen to the pre-crisis level of 60 percent of GDP. As the four essential points that lie in the arrogance and devour summaries that need to be improved structurally urgently in order to overcome the enormous costs, the IMF addresses the following areas: the entire pension system – a hot potato that no one attacks! – the whole area of support – since a reduction in EU level would already make huge resources available – the health reform area, which is not addressed, and federalism. I would like to add two points: a complete inefficiency in education policy and a strong undersupply of resources for science and research. Finally, you should agree on a real, comprehensive and fundamental approach to these tasks. But from my point of view, you are not able to do that. We could now talk about reforms and referendums for hours and weeks, about a small tax here, a new tax there, a marginal discharge here or there, you will not be able to solve the fundamental problems of this country. And there it is relatively no matter whether you are not willing or unable to do so. Before we get into depression: Thank God something moves at the constituency. I would like to conclude with a brief look at the detailed results of the Vorarlberg Landtag election last Sunday, namely the electoral behaviour of the among 30-year-olds, that is, the future of our country. The results of the election are as follows: ÖVP: 13 percent, SPÖ: 7 percent. – So 20 percent! FPÖ: 37 percent, Green: 25 percent, NEOS: 15 percent. – In total – and I say now quite consciously: in total! – 77 percent of the 30-year-olds! A warm thanks to the young voters in Vorarlberg! That makes courage and joy and stimulates.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7654	The next item is Mrs Lichtenecker's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7676	Mr President. Ladies on the government bank! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As a small economy, Austria has benefited from the global economy for decades, and that is good. The fact that there is now great focus in the geopolitical situation today leaves the focus on the location Austria. One thing has been clarified: The Austrian business location is a good business with many dedicated companies with skilled employees who help create many jobs where income is being achieved. It is therefore necessary to see how to secure this location as much as possible. Because the colleague, tiny, said there was a sick man: There is no disease at all! But we have to look at what is really in need of reform, and then deal with it in all the consequences. And that's the challenge now! In the last few weeks, in my conversations with many people, a very big topic was youth unemployment or the proportion of boys who do not have employment, which is at least 9.3 percent in Austria. Even though it is low in international comparison, it is still high for the young, given their prospects for the future, not to mention youth unemployment in the rest of Europe, with partly more than 50 percent in Spain and Greece. That's exactly where it needs to be started and designed! There is also enough need for reform in Austria. One of the first things that need to be addressed is, of course, a reform of the tax system. We need a reduction in income, medium and low incomes, and we need an environmental-social tax reform. and a reform where we also achieve the relief of labour costs. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This gives a double dividend: This will allow us to create necessary jobs and also contribute to the energy transition, through the expansion of renewable energies and by increasing energy efficiency. We can also make an important contribution to climate protection. Ladies and gentlemen! We have many companies that are very successful in this area. And since it is important to start debureaucratisation in particular, it is long overdue. There are more than 500 derogations in tax law alone. This is where clarity and transparency are to be created. These are the measures to be taken! Of course, Mrs Minister, there is also a need for reforms in the large field of education. They've been overdue, too. We can't leave a child behind. And it's a nonsense to put more than €140 million annually in remedial aid. There, too, a reform is needed at last. And of course we also need a corresponding infrastructure. In the area of public transport, it is not only important for the railway to operate the west axle, but also for the south to be connected in this form, and rural regions must also be developed. Next Topic: Broadband. – This is necessary to enable rural regions to rise accordingly. And of course we need to be sure of the future, to invest in the fields of universities and research, because today's research creates and secures tomorrow's jobs. That's exactly what it's all about now! As far as the framework conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises and for one-person enterprises are concerned, there is finally a need for a shattering of the trade order. It has already been mentioned by Mr Haubner today, which is why everything would be necessary. That's where I can tell him: Not only list what is necessary and set out in the government programme, but finally act! This is long overdue and is done because these enterprises need it simply, uncomplicatedly, even in the field of financing; it needs framework conditions for cost-effective, legally secure crowdfunding models, citizen participation models exactly for these small and medium-sized enterprises. So we can prevent a credit terminal, which is necessary to secure and strengthen the location accordingly. Nevertheless, there is a clear definition here of the rules for international trade agreements. We have globalisation, we have international trade – that is also good – the question is just what these rules look like. The social and environmental guidelines and standards we have in Europe should also be observed here, this must not be undermined in any way, and it obviously needs transparency in the negotiations. Citizens have a right to that, and that is exactly what the challenge is for this government. We will continue to do so and make progress in the reforms.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7768	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Hable. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7791	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Citizens' values! TTIP is among other things the topic today, the international trade agreement between Europe and the USA. What we NEOS want in terms of TTIP is above all transparency. Transparency is the daughter of democracy, transparency is necessary and important for a functioning democracy, so I do not understand why, for example, the European Commission's negotiating mandate is secret to these negotiations. Why is it secret? Why, I wonder, will only the European Commission be looking at this? The European Commission has not given itself this negotiating mandate. It has received this secret mandate from all EU countries, i.e. from all governments in Europe, including the Austrian Federal Government. I therefore ask myself – and I ask the Chancellor of the Federal Republic, who is no longer present, and also Mr Vice-Chancellor, who is not here either: Why is that so? Why, then, is the European Commission given a negotiating mandate, which is secret, which must remain secret? Last week we heard in the Committee of Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner that the German Government was always involved in the negotiations on CETA, the trade agreement with Canada. We heard that the social partners were always involved. – This is, of course, too little, because whoever needs to be involved in such an important agreement is the citizens. It is not enough if only the competent ministries know that it is not enough if only the social partners know that the citizens must be taken on board. If the Federal Government, if the social partners are involved in the negotiation process, this also means, of course, that they have the duty to be responsible – I also address this appeal to Chancellor Faymann and Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner, for they are here in charge – to inform the citizens sufficiently and bring them on board. I was at a panel discussion last week at the Europa Club. On the left and right of me, ladies and gentlemen from the European Parliament, and I have noticed one thing, a word has been particularly popular in the discussion on TTIP: Fear – why we must be afraid of what reasons there are, that we must be very afraid. I say openly: Perhaps there are such reasons, but it is not the task of politics to be afraid, it is not the task of politics to strengthen fear, but quite the contrary: It would be a task of policy not to be afraid of this size, but to give courage and, above all, to take this opportunity, even in the face of such a difficult matter as an international trade agreement, because trade is peace-making. It is a central idea of European agreement that countries that trade with each other, countries whose economies are restricted, do not shoot at one another – at least much more rarely than we know from history. But trade is not only peace-making, it also brings jobs. The Research Center for the International Economy has calculated: 44 percent more exports within the next eight years. Behind these 44 percent more exports to the USA from Austria, jobs are hidden. These are not nude numbers, these are jobs that we need at a time like today as urgently as a bite of bread. Why is this another opportunity, an opportunity that the Federal Government should take into account, which policy should be pursued? – Because of course it is also a chance for Europe and America are setting high global standards, high global environmental and social standards. If we don't do it if Europe and America don't do it, then China and Russia do it, then they set international trade standards – and that can't be in our interest. Therefore, my appeal to the Federal Government: Finally get the citizens in the boat, and take this opportunity! Take advantage of this opportunity for more jobs, and take this opportunity to adopt high global social and environmental standards! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7847	The next item is the report by Mr Ing. Vogl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7868	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors! In the sense of a living parliamentaryism, I have already been looking forward to the discussion today. However, I am surprised what can be subsumed on other issues among the topics contained in the urgent request. I would like to focus, above all, on the issue of Ukraine's crisis and sanctions, but I myself come from a company which has had to report short work and which has been linked to these sanctions over and over again. Of course, one can argue about whether the sanctions are the right thing to do, whether sanctions are the right instrument. It is also necessary to distinguish clearly who in this conflict are the good and who are the evil. On one thing, however, I think we should agree – and that, as I think, was also very clear: We should all be interested in the peaceful resolution of this conflict. Therefore, I am also surprised – I mean, the situation is not pleasant – that some try to use it to make polemics here to simply hit cheap political little money here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If some suddenly discover their great love for industry, worry about Austria's industrial location, about Europe's industrial location, I wonder: Where was this call two years ago? Two years ago, Russia joined the WTO, has committed itself to reducing its protective duties, including trucks from 25 percent to 10 percent, and has now introduced a scrapping premium of €15 000 per truck. - Where was the big call? This has led us to have overcapacity in the vehicle industry in Europe and, at the same time, new works have been created in Russia – and this is because our colleagues are clearly more productive, but never able to pick up this competitive disadvantage of € 15 000. That it's right from the Russian point of view, we don't need to discuss it about it – but where was the call? This was something that went at the expense of industrial jobs in Austria. [[Abg. Podgorschek: We should have cried! But we don't!]] I believe that what is much more important is what is a point – it is not so much about sanctions; the sanctions themselves have a very small impact on our industry – is the question of what economic climate we find. We know in Ukraine, in Russia war is, that is, there is the economy on the ground. We also need to consider: If a manager sits at breakfast today and beats the newspaper, he first reads about the Russian crisis, then he turns around, and reads about the IS terror, the conflicts in Arab space and Ebola. Two hours later, this manager sits in the company and is expected to sign an investment application that, for several years, affects the fate of the company. What does he do in the current situation? . He will have to make sure that this investment is correct. In the case of delivery times of twelve weeks in the European vehicle industry, that is, the moment he is considering, we have a crisis. In my view, therefore, we have to ensure that we find economic conditions that also encourage investment. A concerned citizen wrote to me: Peace is still the most secure guarantee of prosperity and security. If you can prevent further escalation of the conflict, no monetary price is too high. - Quote. I think one thing has to be quite clear: We have forgotten that peace has a price. We cannot simply pretend that peace is a matter of course! I believe that people must be told quite clearly that values such as peace, democracy and human rights cannot be exchanged against material objects. [[In the case of the SPÖ, representatives of the ÖVP and the Agg. Köchl.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Podgorschek.]] Therefore, as politicians, we have the task of protecting the people in our country who are affected by the effects of the crisis – these are the people in agriculture, and these are the colleagues in the factory halls. Today, the protection of workers was often addressed here, for example by Mrs. Nachbaur. - I don't think so. They want the protection of employers, not the workers. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Nachbaur, Mr Steinbichler and Mr Lugar.]] Fortunately, we have created appropriate instruments in this country, in social partnership manner, and this for me belongs to short-time work, because short-time work is an instrument of social partnership. [[Abg. Rebour: Not all can be employed in the Chamber of Workers!]] Employers act responsibly and give their employees employment in the crisis, and on the other hand, employment is ensured, while colleagues have to refrain from part of their pay, but at least have a safe job. I hope that we will receive broad support when it comes to rebuilding these instruments and measures in the future – we still do not know how long the crisis will take, and I can remind you that many instruments of short work have been withdrawn. That's why, I think, this is important. Yes, we want a peaceful solution, and yes, we need help for our colleagues in the works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7961	Next item is the report by Mr El Habbassi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7984	Mr President. Dear ladies on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! If one listens well to the previous speakers of the Stronach team, one can gain the impression that in the House some people would think that Austria was somehow a new war driver, an extended arm of the USA that mutates to have nothing better to do than sell Austrian interests and somehow serve as a Marionette. The fact is that ÖVP and the Federal Government are acting briefly for Austrian values such as neutrality and sovereignty. And fact is – the German Chancellor mentioned it at the beginning – that we Austrians have always positioned ourselves as intermediaries and bridge builders. However, we also have the responsibility in Europe to ensure that the strength of the law is valid and not the right of the stronger. I am convinced that this is the right way out of this delicate situation in Ukraine. No one here wants war, no one needs war. What we want, what we need, is a European culture of peace and security, and I therefore ask you to support the request for the current developments in Ukraine that you are in. [[Congratulations on MEPs from ÖVP and SPÖ.]] But what we need and what we want is mainly work for the people in Austria and an economy that flourishes. [[Abg. Steinbichler: That's what we want!]] – Yes, it’s nice that the Stronach team wants to do the same. Do you know what it takes? – This requires a market for our products, for our export, and it needs framework conditions for trade on international markets – and thus we are already on the topic TTIP, which is also a building block in the subject conglomerate of your urgent request. This is where I feel like colleagues Cap and colleagues Strolz: I don't know what to do with your request. On the one hand, you do not want to violate the principle of subsidiarity, but on the other hand you do not want national and European regulations either. Do you know where this confusion policy is leading? – It leads people to fear – I notice that when I talk to citizens in Salzburg or elsewhere –: Fear that genetically modified goods flood our markets; Fear that there are only more chlorhendls to eat; Fear that we, as political representatives, do not carry out our task and that in some backrooms, past democratically legitimate parliaments, any horrors will be decided upon to our detriment. Ladies and gentlemen in front of the television screens! You can be sure that we take these fears very seriously, and I can assure you: We in the EIA have a clear line in keeping our European standards when it comes to protecting and safeguarding social standards, environmental protection, consumer protection, food protection and health standards in Europe! That is why we are also committed to the right to regulation in these negotiations. It is intended to ensure that, in this case, the contracting parties can also determine the level of protection at their own discretion, and to ensure that an agreement strengthens the legitimate extension of our social and consumer protection standards and does not lead to a levelling down, and does not lead to any circumvention. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Hable said earlier that it was not the task of our parliamentarians and not the task of politics to arouse fear. . I think it is our duty to make our work careful and to ensure that citizens have no disadvantage that their interests are preserved. Therefore, we must work for greater transparency, and we must work to ensure that there is no disadvantage through such negotiations. That is why I ask you to be vigilant, and I call you to do so. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8036	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Hübner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8057	Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. El Habbassi, I'm allowed to move on where you end up. They talk about clear lines, about transparency, about standing at the values, and so on. – Very right, but not verbal in Austria at the press conference and here at the Pult, but when it comes to acting! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This concerns neutrality, peace-loving or peaceableness, as well as transparency. If, unfortunately, the Austrian politicians have authorized the Commission to conduct these secret negotiations, if they have apparently also given the power to talk about arbitration agreements, arbitration clauses, the elimination of non-tariff barriers to trade – all of which will be done – and if they have allowed the secret and the public to happen, then it has simply not been acted transparently, but has been acted in a transparent way, then people have been led behind the light and sold for stupid purposes. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Abg. El Habbassi keeps a document up to date.]] – Yes, I know that! It's not enough if you come now, months later, and say, We're crystal clear! – You are not crystal clear, you are double-handed: on the one hand here for the citizens, for democracy, for peace and neutrality; on the other hand, when it comes to the nail test: nothing of that! So it is in your request: The application is beautiful! I read this through and thought first: There you can almost agree, there is everything inside that is beautiful – for peace and tolerance, Austria uses its knowledge, and so on. A single word is, however, interestingly missing and also significantly in your request, namely the word “neutrality”. Neutrality is only spoken of here at the Pult, in the committees and in newspaper interviews, but not when it comes to giving the government an order. That's why the neutrality order is missing here as well. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Contrary to what is said here, of course, we have seriously injured neutrality – not only ourselves, but also other European countries. We were in a new Cold War position, and we were in an economic war position. If crocodile tears are now shed on the fact that the climate for the economy is weakened, that the business will be undermined, because we talk about the crisis, about a new cold war, Russian imperialism and so on, about sanctions and counter-sanctions, I ask: Who's to blame? Who has introduced these sanctions? – Austria, among other things! All that has happened here has happened with Austrian approval, because the common foreign and security policy is still a matter of unanimity. All that is decided is also the Austrian manuscript, and there is no talk of neutrality, of the role of intermediaries, of entry for democracy and peace and compensation. The sanctions have not contributed to de-escaling or slowing down history, but have massively fueled it. [[Abg. Darabos: Is there a violation of international law of Russia or not?]] – Mr Commissioner, I am now in favour, and you can then ask questions. If you want to, let's go to the beginning of the crisis. In March, April, May, there was a breakdown process of Ukraine, with or without Russian support, is a second question. This one has been massive in Crimea, since history has long soared, and it has been in Donbass, and there the story is already shuddering. If you read comments from November 2013, December 2013, January 2014, then you will see that everyone has warned that Ukraine is facing a breakdown when it comes to overturning, as the Donbass and Crimea will not carry it. You knew that. After this decay – the police have passed away, the courts have passed away, including the administration, especially in the Donetsk and Lugansk regions, where it goes on – there would have been the opportunity to say neutral, peaceable: Okay, let's get together, what are we doing now? How do we get a negotiated solution? The demand was clear at the time: Autonomy for the areas in the East with participation in foreign policy matters. There you could have sat down and said: Okay, Crimea, let's see what people really want, let's do a second vote, from the OSCE, from the EU or from whom we always watch! If the same comes out, okay, then the right to self-determination of the peoples, which is also a foundation of international law, should apply! If no comes out, let's keep looking! You didn't do that! It has been said that there must be no federalization – Victoria Nuland, I think, 22. April, during their visit to Kiev – so there must be no federalization, because that would be a “Trojan horse”, the foot with which Russia could prevent the Western reorientation of Ukraine, because they would have a veto right. How's it going? – In June, decision to take a military solution. The Ukrainian army is using tanks and heavy artillery against the cities of Donbass, has Lugansk, Donetsk, Slavyansk shot for days. Where is the European line: Stop, cease at least, end military intervention against civilian areas? – Not a speech, but a second stage of sanctions against Russia to strengthen the military solution and to strengthen the Ukrainian government to reject federalisation. Do you think that's right? - Not me! [[Intrusions of the Abg. Darabos.]] Third phase, let's go to international law. It comes to the ceasefire through the Minsk Agreement of 5.9. What is the reaction of the European Union, Mr Colleague? – Third round of sanctions against Russia! Is this the line to create an investment climate? Is democracy and solution peacefully? Is that neutral position? Is that strengthening the negotiation? You see that? [[in the direction of the Abg. Darabos]] I believe that we need to make a grammatical re-training if you consider such things as sanctions to be an answer to a ceasefire as a contribution to the peaceful solution. All right, all right, all [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] If you see the strengthening of the military solution by the Ukrainian government as a contribution to the peaceful settlement of disputes, I believe we need a verbally democratic re-training. I can't imagine otherwise, because then we live in two language worlds. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So, now the red lamp is already shining. That's why I'm finishing, but I think I've got two minutes left. [[Abg. Darabos: international law!]] Mr President, this is not an individual case, but this debacle in Ukraine and the Austrian participation in the debacle are indeed in a chain of similar decisions that we will be discussing tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8151	Next word: Mr Mag. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8173	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen in the High House! Yes, this urgent request from the Stronach team includes a great potpourri of topics, and everyone has today been able to choose what they want to talk to. You have raised the issue of record unemployment in the headline of your urgent request, and I would like to address it now. TTIP, Russia, record unemployment: Those institutes that have investigated what impact TTIP might have on the labour market in Austria conclude that the effect is minimal and is taking place somewhere in the promill. I believe that this can be seen as a statistical deviation and can be ignored. As far as the issue of Russia is concerned, I believe that you are a little early on, or you have hell-seeking forces – we all of course trust the Stronach team – that you can now say what impact the development of the Russian crisis will have on the labour market. In reality, unemployment is a very important topic in the home-made field. If we look at the competition ranking of the World Economic Forum, we see that Austria has dropped five places, from 16 to 21st. It's all right. And which are our weakest three values? – The high tax rates, restrictive labour laws and inefficient state bureaucracy. We are therefore losing in international comparison not because of TTIP and not because of Russia, but because of homemade problems. Through the high taxes, all politicians – no matter who you ask – also talk about the high additional wage costs, we can no longer hear the term. There is a bad development under this federal government. That could have been your urgent request. It is not saved on the expenditure side. There is no reform in the field of education. We have a standstill in federalism. The flexibility of working time was cancelled by the majority parties. The topic of pension reform is also one that we have acoustically enough, but it is not done. In the field of education and the labour market, we can also see a wonderful connection: The lower the level of education of workers, the greater the risk that they are affected by unemployment. Today, in the AMS, we are actually outlining the educational problems, and it would be time to implement educational reforms so that the AMS can fulfil its actual task. I therefore believe that your urgent request is a case-by-case mistake. Neither the Federal Government nor the Stronach team can clean themselves up, not to Brussels, not Russia, not TTIP, not Ukraine. These problems are home-made.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8221	Next word: Mr Pock. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8242	Mr President. Estimated government members! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! I would also like to address a particular issue because of the urgent request – it is here about economic war, the economic sanctions are meant, spoken – and I would like to briefly highlight the issue of energy security. If we look at the fact that in Europe, almost 80 percent of all energy resources still exist in fossil energy resources, which we have, if we continue to think that Austria is 66 percent, that is, two thirds, still directly dependent on energy imports from Russia, then, of course, for us in Parliament, the question of how we can actually ensure energy supplies should further intensify sanctions. There is no reason to panic, as our gas storage units are in fact sufficiently filled, even for this winter. However, it is relevant that, of course, we need to think about how it should continue, how we can prevent it from being existentially dependent on another state in such a situation in the future. Last week, we also heard the report on climate change and what impact this has on Austria, because we are above average affected by climate change. And we have heard a very motivated environmental minister with statements in the field of system change, in particular with regard to household heat, heating and mobility. For us NEOS, the field of economic sanctions is enough to believe that in this House we should really discuss intensively how a system change can lead to a higher security of supply and a more stable economic situation. I would also like to sum up what challenges we should be discussing, namely the high dependence on energy imports already mentioned, and the lack of coordination of national energy policies in Europe. A central challenge – I heard that was already mentioned by the Greens today – is the ecologicalisation of the tax system. A first and important step must be taken in this regard in the current working group. We would support them in a massive way. Another challenge is the national energy strategy, which clearly goes beyond the planned 2030 strategy by 2050. Only through legal certainty and planning can we create an investigative environment. We have the goal of reducing fossil energy imports by 40 percent by 2030, and we need a reform in the field of renewable energy sources in order to integrate them more quickly into the market. Let us not only see the current economic sanctions as a conflict, but also as an opportunity to renew our Austria in a sustainable way! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8292	Last word to add: Mr. Dr. Pilz. Rest of the time of your club: 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8315	Ladies and gentlemen! There is a motion for a resolution by the government parties on the crisis in Ukraine. I note the following: This motion for a resolution does not include the term ‘neutrality’, not the word ‘USA’, not the word ‘NATO’, nor the word ‘Russia’. What is actually in this motion for a resolution on Ukraine? – I can sum it up briefly, I don’t need a minute: nothing, just nothing! Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, this is exactly the wrong signal to the conflict parties in the present situation! If, if the Austrian Parliament, if the majority of the government is unable to send a clear signal, especially to Russia, but also to NATO, it is better to silence the majority of governments. Because there should be one thing that should be clear: The members of the government, even if they do not know it themselves, are neither NATO secretaries nor pipeline representatives, but free Members of an Austrian Parliament. I would therefore ask you to consider the next time you make such requests, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP. People in Ukraine have earned real signals from Austria and not such a coalition proposal, which we unfortunately cannot agree to.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8345	Another word is spoken by the clubwoman of the team Stronach Dr. Nachbaur. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8367	Mr President. Dear representatives on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Dear taxpayers! I was sorry that some people in this House today did not fully understand what it was all about at this special meeting. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That is why I allow myself to explain this to everyone again. It is simply about Austria becoming more and more alien and seeing eyes abandon its sovereignty. This will cost us many jobs, and I would like to explain to you once again why: This unclear, weak policy is tearing us into an economic war in the East. There our neutrality is simply thrown overboard without pulling with the eyelash, and that costs thousands of jobs. [[Abg. Krainer: You can't believe that yourself!]] And what is happening to the West, this embarrassing task of our economic policy is to give us some TTIP negotiators without previously developing a clear definition of what is good for Austrian entrepreneurs, what is good for Austrian workers and what is good for Austrian consumers. The Austrian entrepreneurs and employees are the backbone of our society and our prosperity. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Thank you very much and acknowledge that they work so hard and so hard. However, they do not do this because of this great policy of SPÖ and ÖVP, but despite this policy. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We are committed to a better policy, and I also agree to explain this to you again, which has not been understood. We say: Get down with the bureaucracy! Get down with taxes when companies invest in Austria so that there can be jobs here! And we want to get the employees involved in the company's economic success, which they eventually help to achieve. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] But our socialist friends don't want to hear this, because then they hit their borders with their class-warring slogans. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] They do not want independent and powerful citizens, but they want as many people as possible who depend on their alms. For example, Mr. Federal Chancellor Faymann yesterday, on TV, a lady, a hairdresser who is legitimately concerned that the pension is too low and that she cannot pay the rent, simply comforted and said: There's a rental grant anyway, there's a housing allowance anyway. That is not the point, ladies and gentlemen. We need to see that people stay in the pocket of money. That is why we say: Get down with the taxes! We recognize the performance of the workers! Let's join them in the success! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mr Vogl said that we are committed to employers and not to workers. – So I’ve never heard such an absurd thing before! There is a connection, Mr Vogl. Every employee also needs an employer, otherwise he is not an employee, except you wish that all Austrians are employed in the union and in the Chamber of Labour. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach]] This is, of course, something else, but it costs tax money. We want jobs that bring tax money. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. Krainer.]] We need as many private employers as possible to create jobs that bring tax money and not cost tax money, just as most professional politicians and government officials cost taxpayers a lot and not always bring so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8482	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We come to the vote on the self-employed Amendment No 599/A(E) tabled by Mr Nachbaur, colleagues and colleagues on 'Economic war, record unemployment and TTIP: Austria as a Marionette, caught between East and West.’ I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. Debates of the European Parliament I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. The vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Schieder, Mr Lopatka, Mr Lopata, on the current developments in Ukraine. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign. - That's the majority. The application is therefore accepted. (E 39.) [[16:27:43]] Short debate on the reply to the question 1838/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8552	We are now entering the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Art and Culture, Constitution and Public Service with the order number 1838/AB. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with a speaking time of 10 minutes for the first speaker. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. I now ask Mr Zinggl to open the debate. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8586	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Minister! We had the pleasure of talking to each other on the same subject before the summer break, and I promised you that we will see each other again if your behavior does not change. It has actually become necessary because we do not allow the government to disregard Parliament's rights. That's a very important thing. For many months now, we have been trying to somehow bring light to the castle theatre into the dark mess with questions about the Bundestheaterverband. We do this because we look at what happens in time before anything happens. And a lot has happened in the meantime, as we know. On the part of the government, however, this is not supported by our work, the performance of our control task is hindered, our questions remain unanswered. First of all, this has been justified by the fact that we only have the right to ask questions about the Supervisory Board protocols. That this is not true, you know in the meantime, Minister. We then somehow took note of your ministry's recommendations and addressed them and put our questions to the minutes – even without an answer. I do not want to go into this again with regard to the transparent and clear arguments why we have not received any answers. We did that before the summer. But what you, Minister, at the time in Parliament on 12 February. In June, I have claimed that the Constitutional Service would have justified and formulated your refusal to reply, and I must seriously doubt that. They did not want the public to know what the Ministry had always known in connection with the federal theatres. And I do believe that it should not be necessary for me to order an expensive opinion, which will then show you that: You've actually disregarded the right of interpolation here. The opinion has also been fully underlined by Parliament's Legal Science Service. I told you in the Cultural Committee, Minister, that I have an opinion from Professor Öhlinger. You have kindly offered me that if I make this opinion available to you, you will give me the opinion of the Constitutional Service in return. On the same day you have the I received advice from Professor Öhlinger. To this day I am still waiting for the opinion of the Constitutional Service. I had to address a parliamentary question to you, which in turn has been very, very sparsely answered. I asked for the number of documents of the opinion and so on and so on. In the meantime, we have also addressed all questions on the decision-making protocols and on the agenda items of the Supervisory Board protocols to the Finance Ministers and the Chancellors, because these two should have been informed about the Supervisory Boards too. And see: The Minister of Finance and the Chancellor of the Federal Republic answered at least the question of the agenda items. That is too little for us – I say it quite clearly and clearly –. We have also asked for the decision-making protocols and we have a right to receive them. We will repeat this and continue to ask. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If the Federal Chancellor does not make these protocols available to us, we will meet again here – but with the Federal Chancellor. I believe that the public has a right to know what the ministry, what the Federal Chancellery knew about in the time when this mud was born. Regardless of the question you will probably try to relativize now, whether the Supervisory Board has been obliged to provide information to the Federal Chancellor and to the Ministries, to the Ministers and to what extent this may be passed on to us, I can remind you that the management of the Bundestheater-Holding and also the Bundestheater are binding on you, not the artistic, but the commercial, and therefore there is a very probably a duty to inform the Parliament. That means you can turn it and turn it around as you like, it is quite clear that you have not acted righteously against us here. I'll tell you: To move with this policy of transparency They are just the problems and the deficits that have already arisen are getting bigger from time to time – larger than necessary. If we had been given timely insight, we could have prevented a lot in time by, of course, discussing these problems with the public. Please recognize, Minister, the signs of the time! Recognize the signs of a democracy which no longer wants to be offered such a state-of-the-art behaviour that has enough of this paternalist attitude, of this good-will attitude! In the “Kurier” you say: Well, in the future we will examine what questions we answer and whether they are in the public interest. – Mr Minister, you do not decide! It is not you who decide what is of public interest, but the Parliament decides whether there is a question to be answered to you and whether it might be of public interest. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] – I'm sorry! This is Parliament's control task, and you therefore have to give the answers. Now I'm gonna tell you something that bothered me a lot: You have forwarded the agenda items of the Supervisory Board meetings to the Boulevard before you gave them to us. That is to say, first, “Kronen Zeitung”, “Austria”, “Kurier” received the Supervisory Board’s Protocol day-by-day items, and then the Federal Chancellor sent us these agenda items in response to my parliamentary request. Do you really think it is right to argue first that Parliament is not entitled to the protocols and the agenda items, then to forward them to the Boulevard, and everyone, point by point, and then to us first?- Oh, my God! So I think that's a behavior that says everything. This says that the boulevard in a public Discussion is more important than Parliament. And that, I think, is prettier. I don't want this to become a tradition. We're not going to let go until we get these protocols. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8670	Mr Ostermayer spoke on a point of view. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8692	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Zinggl, you refer to the opinion of Theo Öhlinger, which you gave me on 2 October. In July 2014, the Commission sent a letter to the European Parliament and to the Council. Among other things, there is ‘limits to the obligation to reply’: In a supplementary statement of refusal to reply to your questions, reference is made to the fundamental confidentiality of supervisory activity to safeguard the interests of companies. In fact, from this point of view, there are restrictions on the content of the answer of the said Federal Minister. Second point: For data protection reasons, therefore, a reasoned failure to reply or a restricted response may be required. [[Abg. Brosz: You want to say that Öhlinger was right about you?- Oh, my God!]] And then there is – and this also contradicts what you have just said –: The Federal Minister responsible for each individual date shall consider the interests of the company concerned in keeping their personal data confidential and the public interest in parliamentary control. [[Abg. Brosz: Did you do this? - You didn't do that!]] So I have the obligation to do so within the framework of the tasks I have undertaken. [[Abg. Brosz: You want to say that Öhlinger was right about you?- Oh, my God!]] In fact, on that point he gave me the right, yes. [[Further calls to the Greens.]] And that is why I have the responsibility to consider whether there would be a damage to the company or a damage to personal data through a reply. So it is not Parliament that has to do this consideration, but I have to do it in my ministerial responsibility. I also referred in detail to what the Constitutional Service said in the last reply to the question. I have even explained the opinion on Article 52 B-VG of the Constitutional Service and what legal interpretation is the legal assessment of the cultural section on the basis of the Öhlinger opinion and the opinion of the legal and legislative services. Based on this assessment, you can conclude that you have the right to obtain detailed information. This means that the law of interconnection only goes as far as the law of the competent minister is concerned. And on the basis of this assessment, which was then carried out, which I also made in writing in this last reply to the question, I gave you on 15 November. September sent a 38-page letter, i.e. cover sheet plus 37 pages, in which I mentioned exactly the agenda items. But what I can't give you, and I won't give it, because I'd be wrong, according to all these legal assessments, these are the protocols. This does not include the right of interconnection. To your accusation of transparency: So now there was a little bit of a offended undertone that we also communicate what we are doing. I believe that this is part of the activity of a member of the government. I have enjoyed so much transparency in the last few months, and I have tried so much to clarify and actually done it – so if this is not recognised, I am sorry, then I will probably not be able to meet your demands or to follow your strategy so to speak. But I have always been committed to comprehensive transparency wherever it was legally possible. I have published the KPMG report, i.e. the forensic report. I have given the Court of Auditors a mandate for a comprehensive examination. I have always published all the documents, however, with two restrictions, namely, where it concerns third party personal rights to be guaranteed in the sense of data protection, and where I believe that a society could result in economic or competitive damage from the publication of sensitive data. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] My job is to keep the damage of the houses I am responsible for as low as possible and to avoid where it goes and to ensure that there is a peaceful order that the artists can actually fulfill their task. So I will not make the Supervisory Board protocols available to you, at least as long as the legal situation does not change, even if they come to the public via any other means, because I would take the step. It's hard to prevent anyone else from playing out, but I wouldn't want to charge the blame on me. So, as I said, I have communicated to you all the agenda items of the Supervisory Board meetings that were requested, in my letter, which covers 37 pages. I also ask you to take note that this has been done. It can, of course, be requested on any point as well. [[Abg. Brosz: Which points? Is there any point in the agenda?]] . On the items on the agenda, if there are any questions there, yes, clearly. [[Abg. Brosz: But what decisions were made there, right?]] – No, I have already done that before, and I will not do so because, according to the legal assessment that I have before, the right of interconnection does not include the fact that documents from the companies are also made available. So my job is to provide information wherever it is legally permissible. My goal is to create the greatest possible transparency in the future, which does not lead to damage to companies, companies or to a breach of data protection. Otherwise, I am not only concerned with the past, but also with the future. I have therefore commissioned from the Ministry of Culture a study on this organisational analysis. This will be available at the end of November when it is submitted in accordance with the plan. Then it will also be discussed. If it is to be derived from the fact that the Federal Theatre Organisation Act is to be changed, we will also have to discuss it accordingly here. Otherwise, as far as the Burgtheater is concerned, the next step is as soon as I have the Commission's proposal that an appropriate appointment be made by a future director or director. I will announce that by mid-October at the latest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8803	Thank you, Minister of State. We continue in the debate. The speaking time is 5 minutes from now on per Member. Mrs Hakel is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8831	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! And every day the marmot greets, Mr. Zinggl. We are now meeting again, we are again talking about the same thing that we talked about before the summer, namely, the right of interconnection. One of them explains it that way, the other. But the fact is: Federal Minister Ostermayer is certainly one of the politicians who clearly stands for transparency and enlightenment, and he has always shown this at the Causa Burgtheater from the beginning. I can now repeat what he did. He has sent the forensic report online and passed it on to the public. [[Call the Greens.]] Well, right after he was there, of course. – He has answered all questions in detail and detail in all cultural committees since March. So that he would have kept something quiet here, I really can't see that, and I would also like to point this out. On the contrary: In the plenary sessions, in all the short debates we have had so far, he has always answered everything very carefully, just after the usual teaching of the right of interconnection. But not only that – he has already mentioned that, but we can repeat everything again today – he has gone one step further. After the opinion of Professor Öhlinger has been presented, he has gone a step further and has published the agendas of the Supervisory Board meetings. Once again, he took a step towards greater transparency and proved that he also took up and implemented proposals of the opposition, constructive proposals. I don't understand the excitement either, because if you look at Mrs Meinl-Reisinger's homepage, you'll find all the Supervisory Board protocols anyway. So they have to be from somewhere. I don't even want to know how you came to them. [[Calls to the Greens.]] It is also necessary to ask whether this is so right at all, despite the immunity of a Member. Yeah, I'm also dissatisfied with the right to interpolate. That is why I am of course also in favour of once again discussing in detail, in the course of the discussion on the abolition of official secrecy and the creation of an information freedom law, the right of interconnection, also in the sense of strengthening Parliament's control rights. That's quite clear. [[Abg. Moser: But that's just announced again!]] In this sense, we will also, possibly together with a few opposition parties, put forward a motion for a resolution tomorrow, which provides that the results of the analysis of the Bundestheater-Holding will also be made available to the National Council for a transparent discussion on how the cultural mission can be secured and implemented as far as possible. Here again, it is about full transparency and clarification. I am sure that the Minister will continue to inform us in detail about his plans in the future. The Minister has already mentioned it, but because we are so happy to talk about it and once again discuss the same thing as before the summer, I can also quote from Professor Öhlinger's opinion. He also refers here to data protection, which also includes legal persons and also the economic data. Professor Öhlinger also assumes that a balance must be made – and here I quote – between the public interest in efficient parliamentary control of the administration and the legitimate interest of those concerned. [[Abg. Brosz: Where did it take place? The balance is the non-examination?- Oh, my God!]] So I've always believed that the greens of data protection are important, but it seems that data protection is not important, because if it went to you, we would have to publish everything. It seems that the Greens' attitude to data protection has changed. [[Abg. Moser: This is clearly regulated in the Constitution!]] Finally, I would like to appeal: Perhaps we will discuss the right of interconnection once in peace and find a common solution in the interests of Parliament, in the interests of control and, of course, in the interests of citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8906	Mrs Fekter is speaking next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8927	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As Minister of the Interior, but much more often as Minister of Finance, I also referred to Article 52 B-VG and raised questions about distributed companies, in particular detailed questions about their operations, noting that the not matter of execution, the work of a minister would be answered. Of course, the location changes the position and, as a parliamentarian, the right of interconnection is also extremely important to me. [[Abg. Moser: I hope so!]] But, Mr Zinggl, the National Council and the Federal Council are currently only able to consult the members on the subject of execution on the basis of Article 52, and - you know it very well - on the subject of execution, and only on the subject of execution. When it comes to outsourced companies, of course, it's painful, I know. As a popular lawyer, I also suffered from how the cemeteries in Vienna have been outsourced. From then on, I was unable to control the administration there as an attorney. That too annoyed me. I know, but the legal situation is just the same at the moment that the question law covers only the government and its subordinate bodies in the private administration, but not the actions of the institutions. [[Abg. Moser: No! The Federal Constitution provides for this!]] With regard to the Bundestheater there is, of course, a special arrangement of this right of information of the Federal Chancellor and the respective ministers regarding the Supervisory Board decisions. However, this is legally formulated as a right of information, not as an obligation to provide information in relation to a list, which decisions exist, et cetera. The Federal Chancellor and the Minister have this right of information. The confidentiality of the Supervisory Board's activity cannot therefore be removed. Third parties cannot thereby recognize confidentiality by simply demanding everything and every one and thus removing confidentiality. [[Abg. Moser: I just need to stick to the Constitution!]] However, if we want to extend this right of interconnection, we want to change the confidentiality of office by law or introduce a general information law, then, Mrs Moser, you are right, then we need a new constitutional law. [[Abg. Brosz: How to interpret Article 52 para. 2?]] And as long as we do not have that, ministers, no matter what couleur, will repeatedly call on these limits of Article 52 B-VG. We must therefore rely on the Court of Auditors' reports, and gratefully, the Minister has commissioned a report of the Court of Auditors. I assume that we will then also get this report to Parliament, and then we will have comprehensive information on it. And as the next instrument, we have already done so, we have an expert load in the Cultural Committee. We had an opportunity to talk to Dr. Springer about that. Unfortunately, this was not very productive, but I hope in the Court of Auditors' report and that it will come into the house at the same time.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9013	The next word is from Mr. Abgeord-netem Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9034	Mr President. Federal Minister! What did we hear from the Federal Minister first in his speech? - Me, me, me. Of course, what do you remember as a cultural speaker? – Bach-Werke-verzeichnis 21, the Controversy-Cantatas: I, I, I had a lot of pity. Nothing else was what your remarks were to be found here. The pity that results from what is actually contained in the Constitution. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] These egg dances, which have now been listed by the colleagues from the government parties, were already adventurous. Mrs Hakel said: As Mrs Meinl-Reisinger has received the minutes of the Supervisory Board, I do not want to know. Mrs Hakel, we are not going to continue with such an educational culture! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So I actually want to know how the Supervisory Board protocols, where the Minister is not allowed to say anything, where everything is subject to data protection, secrecy and so on, how they can still land somewhere at once. So I'm interested. Mrs. Hakel, that you are not interested, this may be due to the fact that you are not in the right position to control you and you. But what do you mean now? The enforcement will be checked, and the question of private administration, the distributed companies, is that not execution? – Although I am a random administrative body, I am also a Federal Minister, I have received a fine decree from the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, look at my salary paper at the first of the month, there is indeed the ministerial salary of the Federal Remuneration Act on it, but what I am doing does not really interest me at all, that is not at all execution. So getting a decree and maybe looking at the sale at the first of the months, that's too little for me to execute. The Constitution clearly states that you have to provide information on the file in the private economy administration. Mrs Fekter even meant that this is only a right to information. The Minister. Yes, but, logically, the institution's obligation to provide information always stands. If you ask a minister now, in that case the Minister Ostermayer: What does these Supervisory Board protocols say inside, when did you know that it is?, then the Minister must say: I didn't even know because I didn't take advantage of my right to inquire. I have to tell you – not your predecessor, but your predecessor, but she is not quite unknown to you in the political party – Mrs. Schmied said: I've never exercised my right because I wasn't interested. - Not enough, sit! This can be written to the former Minister of Education in the main book. But to say, that does nothing – I, me, me –, I see what is secret and what is not secret and what remains secret. - That's not how it's going to be. It is also very exciting from the thought laws of logic: Parliament has a so-called aid body. That sounds a little deplorable. That's the Court of Auditors. And now I'm forgiven: The Court of Auditors may, as Parliament's assistant body, look at everything there, even see the Supervisory Board protocols and so on. He is allowed to buy more than the body that can, under quotation marks, “buy” him, namely the National Council and the individual Members. It's thought-and-sense! This is not compatible with the laws of logic. And this is something we must in itself already assume to our Constitutional Legislator and to the one who designed our Constitution that the logic and the laws of thought already apply here. Something else but in detail: Mr Minister, you are getting a question, for example, and I am now reading it literally. Question 12 by Mr Zinggl: “Do you think it is right for media to have access to the protocols, but Parliament is denied this access?” And you answer it as follows: “The transfer of Supervisory Board protocols by Bundestheater-Holding GmbH to third parties, as suggested by the honourable Member’s questions, is not known to my department.” Is the economy already so big that you have ordered the newspapers in your department that what appears in the media is no longer perceived and read at all? In the field of public relations, the press reports are normally always collected and passed on. So that the ministry as a whole remains hidden that, from whatever sources, Supervisory Logs have been played to media, and you say that is not known to you, I must say that this is a poverty certificate from the resort. And I would strongly advise you to consider every single euro for your press department and public service in any form.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9128	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9150	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There is no doubt that you, Mr Minister, are trying to make the whole thing, I now call it Burgtheater scandal a little more transparent and to take certain clarification steps. Yes, in the public, you are trying hard, and your efforts towards Parliament are already being reduced. But I know Not why. I really want to know that. Because these things you have addressed today, data protection and balance of public interest with the economic interest of the company, you have never done that! They have just said that there is data protection, and it should be weighed down. But why you are now contrasting this element of data protection with the element of public interest, which would not be so large, with why you have done so, you have not at all explained it to us. You have not explained this in the request, and you have not now explained that in your opinion. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Minister, apart from this detail, the question of the right of parliamentary interaction is generally raised. And now I can read to you, Mr Doctor iuris Ostermayer, the federal constitution, as well as to you, Mrs Doctor iuris Fekter. I'm not a lawyer, but I'm reading. I read in Article 52 para. 1: “The National Council and the Federal Council are empowered to review the management of the Federal Government, its members to consult on all matters of execution...” All right. Abs. 2: “Control rights according to paragraph 2. 1 also exist in relation to the Federal Government and its members’ – and this is important – “for undertakings in which the Federal Government is involved with at least 50 % of its parent, basic and equity”. There it stands, clearly, stoned and clear, federal constitution law. What is the Bundestheater-Holding? – A 100 percent gesture of the federal government. We have a GesmbH form, Mrs. Juristin, Mr. Jurist. And it's the GesmbH form that's about the Federal Chancellor's instructions. You can also study the Federal Theatre Organisation Act. I'm not a lawyer, but I'm reading. And there is also § 17. The fact is that the managing director of the holding company is practically bound to the instructions of the Federal Chancellor. Now we have practically the chain of direction and competence. Now all of this fits together. The Federal Chancellor is required to provide information, and the Minister is required to provide information. In fact, it is clear in the Federal Constitution that the delegates have the right to ask when it comes to the business conduct of companies which the federal government owns with more than 50 percent. This is stone and clearly rereadable. And you don't do it! That's what I'm asking myself: Why don't you do it? There are positive legal opinions. I do not need to use Öhlinger's opinion now, I only need to take up the constitutional and legislative service of Parliament, whose exegesis – now I have to use a biblical word – the federal constitution covers itself completely with our opinion Öhlinger. And you're saying, No information on the decisions taken there. And then, interestingly, we get the hint that we can already ask about the decisions that have been taken there, but we must not know them. I'm wondering, How should one ask about something detailed if one does not know the fact as such? So the cat somehow bites in the tail. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is why I hope, Minister, after you have repeatedly advocated transparency, that the Information Freedom Act has been put into the world. Finally, on the basis of this specific example, I should like to say that the right to intervene, the right of questioning of Members, is indeed in accordance with the constitution. We all know, according to the federal constitution, that there are two obligations: legislation and control. And we can only control if we can ask questions; and the questions are of control only when answers are made. Mrs former Minister and Mr now's Minister, you know how difficult we are to deal with the image, the reputation of politics, because there has been a lack of control, and often because the parliamentary questions have not been properly answered. That's why you're thinking: The entire Burgtheater scandal damages the Republic's reputation, harms our cultural location; I am not talking about other sites now. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] A first step in remedying damages is the detection, the control, is compliance with the federal constitution. Let's do it! That'd be laughing!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9244	Mr Ostermayer, Federal Minister of State, spoke next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9265	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Moser, I am in favour of quoting things, of saying that you actually adhere to what has been written there. They have quoted the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. And I just want to make it clear what is being written, quote it briefly. It reads: “Univ. In his opinion, Prof. Dr. Öhlinger criticises a very restrictive interpretation of Art. 52 para. 2 B-VG. On the other hand, the RLW service (also in its previous opinions) is based on the ruling teaching. Consequently, the right of interconnection is in accordance with Art. 52 para. 1 B-VG to the entire "management" of the Federal Government, i.e. the activities of the members of the Federal Government and of the bodies subject to their management, i.e. to the private administration. Where an economic activity is carried out by independent legal persons and their institutions, there is a private administration to be controlled as regards the rights of the federal government (e.g. Participation rights’. [[Abg. Rosary: That's why we ask the Minister! That is why I am not asking the Chairman of the Supervisory Board, but the Minister!]] And to Mr Rosenkranz. It goes on to say: “National Council and Federal Council cannot, however, directly control the activities of the institutions of the legal person. This is the difference between the almost equivalent formulation of the audit powers of the Court of Auditors in accordance with its nature. In paragraph 126b, par. 2 B-VG. The Court of Auditors has the right, within the limits of its powers, to examine the entire conduct of undertakings in which the Federation is involved with at least 50% or which it is actually ruling by other measures.” – Citations. The legal, legislative and scientific service of the House, i.e. the Parliament, says that, in contrast to Öhlinger, he joins the ruling teaching, and also says that the Court of Auditors can examine in more detail than this is the case with the National Council and the Federal Council. [[Abg. Rosary: I can't do it directly, so I have to ask you!]] I am of the opinion that, if the legal and legislative service of the House is already a member of the ruling teaching, the Constitutional Service also has this opinion that: They also admit to me that I join this teaching and this interpretation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9329	Next and provisionally last speech by Mrs Magistrate. Meinl-Risinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9350	Mr President. Mr. Minister! I would like to refer immediately to what you have just read, this opinion of the Legal Service. We can't check right now. We'll have to serve you. And that's exactly the difference. That is what we are trying to do all the time by means of this right of interconnection, namely that you will be given the answers we need in order to be able to exercise the control rights here in this Parliament. [[Congratulation with NEOS, FPÖ and Greens.]] [[Abg. Rosary: It's the same! Bingo!]] We have this opinion, Mr Zinggl of the Greens has this opinion by Professor Öhlinger. And I can also say that this is, of course, a subject of Parliament. Mrs Hakel, I do not understand the role and the role of You actually see it as yours in Parliament. Parliament has a control function here and, in my opinion, it does not have the function of defending the public relations of a minister. In any case, we know that this is a subject that we have already discussed in the Presidential Assembly. I've already mentioned it. [[Abg. Arbitrators: But they do not determine who carries out his task as if it were!]] No, but we have seen that this is an issue, in particular, Mr Klubobmann, you know that when it comes to introducing an information freedom law that we very much welcome and urgently need. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Then don't be so well done,...!]] In my opinion, it is precisely then that we urgently need Article 52(a) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 to clarify, because it really cannot be said that Parliament's right to interact with citizens in the Information Freedom Act may even be misplaced. So this is a subject, and I would already hope – the location determines the point of view – that all the Members of this House are drawing on a line here. It's clear, too, that you didn't weigh how you said that the data protection is infringing whether personal data are contained here. It was also the speech of economic data. That's where you have to say: Personal data is not in there. The Supervisory Board members are in themselves known. The economic data are also known in this respect, because that a very close liquidity situation was present in the Burgtheater, I now know, I think, each from Vienna to Vorarlberg. This is not quite surprising now. And you don't reveal any big economic data. The question is: Who takes responsibility? And that's exactly what we want to deal with here: Who takes responsibility? Mr Minister, you have always said that you are not responsible for what happened before your term of office. That's perfectly right. But you are responsible, as you are now contributing to the Enlightenment, also to Parliament. And I really have to thank Mr Zinggl, a preliminary information of the boulevard media, for how much transparency You will now be concerned, even before the answer to the question goes to Parliament at all, that is really an increase in this Parliament and in the control rights. I suggest the following: On Friday there is the great day of freedom of information. The prize is awarded for the “wall of silence. ” Honestly, Minister, I could, I would nominate you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9428	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. [[17:09:38]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9449	I am still announcing that in today's session, the self-employed have received requests from 599/A(E) to 611/A(E). Questions 2434/J to 2441/J were also raised. [[17:10:10]] Request according to § 99 para. 2 GOG
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-23-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9474	I also announce that, in the context of the self-employed application 600/A for the implementation of a special act of conduct audit by the Court of Auditors concerning the agricultural market Austria Marketing GmbH, a request by 20 Members within the meaning of § 99 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. As the legal requirements are met, this examination must also be carried out without the decision of the National Council. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Wednesday, 24. September 2014, 9 a.m. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. Finally, I would draw attention to the fact that the main committee will hold a meeting in local IV in just a few minutes after these discussions have ended. This meeting is closed.
