ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e4121	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, I'll open the 20th. Meeting of the National Council, which is based on a sufficiently supported request in accordance with § 46 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure. ==References====External links== Meeting of 26. ==References====External links== He proposed that the Court should reply as follows: On 1 March 2014, he was appointed to the Parliamentary Board of Directors. As prevented, the MEPs are reported Mag. Muttonen, Dr. Wittmann, Obernosterer, Ing. Schultes, Dr. Däderle, Mag. Haider, Dr. Kassinger, Steger, Mag. Aslan, Mag. Jarmer, Mag. Musiol and Mag. Honey. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e4152	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following messages: The Federal Minister for Europe, Integration and External Sebastian Kurz is represented by Vice Chancellor Dr. Michael Spindelegger. The Federal Minister for Defence and Sport Mag. Gerald Klug is represented by the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology Doris Bures. The Federal Minister for the Interior of Power. Johanna Mikl-Leiter is represented by the Federal Minister for Families and Youth Dr. Sophie Karmasin. [[09:01:17]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e4215	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text:
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e4516	I shall also inform you that the Third Report of the Inconsistency Committee has been distributed to the members of the National Council. [[09:01:37]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e4538	According to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure request that the written Question No 1312/J tabled at the beginning of the sitting be dealt with urgently by Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues to the Federal Chancellor on theft of the future due to hypo-desaster: no budget cuts in education, science and research. The call for urgent inquiry will take place at 12 noon. I announce that this meeting will be held from 12 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 1 p.m. to 2 p.m. and from 1 p.m. to 2 p.m. and from 1 p.m. to 2 p.m. and from ORF III in full length. I am now interrupting the meeting until 12 noon. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e4584	I will resume the interrupted session and ask you to go back to your places. [[12:00:15]] Request for urgent procedure by Dr Eva Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues in the Federal Chancellor on theft of the future due to hypo-desaster: no budget cuts in education, science and research (1312/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e4620	We arrive at urgent procedure for the written question 1312/J. As it has now reached all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the writer. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e5083	I give the floor to Mrs Club President Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek as the first questioner on the grounds of the question. The speaking time must not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e5104	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The Greens have decided during the week of the week to demand this special meeting, and we have a very concrete goal for today's day: We would like this Parliament, in a new self-confidence of the Federal Government and the Minister of Finance, to make a provision for the submission of the budget, namely the requirement that education, science and research should not be shortened. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Together with many apologies in Austria – parents, young people, pupils, teachers and teachers – I believe that the announcement of this special meeting has already produced something positive, because what was originally planned by the Minister of Education, namely the literally saving in the classroom, actually on the back of the children, could now be turned away. I would also like to congratulate the honourable Member, especially the SPÖ – Mrs Grossmann – who had the courage to have his own opinion in such a situation and to express what many in Austria thought: It must not come that we literally save on the back of the children and in the classroom! [[I should like to congratulate the Greens and the Deputies Strolz and Post-Bauer.]] You, Mr Bundeskanzler and Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance, and also you, Mrs Bildungsminister, are nevertheless not discouraged from further cutting down in the field of education, science and research. This is also exactly the subject of today's question and also of your debates. We want to know exactly a taboo zone for this area. There is now a current agreement – and there is obviously the wrong one again! – which goes in the direction of slowing down the expansion of schools all day long. [[Federal Minister Heinisch-Hosek: Not true!]] That's what I'm asking: Did you think twice about who's meeting this again? These are mainly single-parents who depend on being employed that their children have a good quality of care. At 6,000 schools in Austria, we have just 125 full-day, restricted, reasonable forms of school. You will answer me now – and some things have already been premised in the media –: They will not be against it, dear Greens and also all those who are now so upset about these cuts that one saves in the administrative field! – Of course, one will save in the field of school administration, but it is already the question why this has not happened in recent years! I have spent a year and a half in the so-called Austria Convention, where precisely these topics have been discussed in length. There have always been proposals and attempts to reform the administration – dozens! – and the savings pressure has been extremely high since 2008. It would have been a long time to turn every cent around and also in the field of school administration to tackle the elimination of double tracks. Why not now?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations with the Greens as well as with representatives of Team Stronach and NEOS.]] One thing you have to say seriously: For the current year 2014 and also for the following year, it is totally impossible to obtain amounts in the scale of your reduction projects from a school administration reform. There was another argument, namely by Klubobmann Schieder, who meant that it was so little anyway that it was not much. - That's how it sounded. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] I can't understand that at all. I can and must make you an accusation, I can't save you: Only the delay costs in handling the Hypo Alpe-Adria amounted to € 1 to 2 billion. [[Abg. Krainer: This is stupid! But that's only if you believe the Kogler! That's stupid! That's wrong!]] That means, 3 million € per day delay costs. You will certainly be referring back to Carinthia again, but only 20 days less of delay in handling the Hypo Alpe-Adria would have made a short time of the educational budget unnecessary – just so that we have the numbers on the table again! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Stroll.]] In the 2014 budget alone, up to €4 billion will be budgeted for the Hypo Alpe-Adria, and so far the Austrian population has paid €7.7 billion for bank aid – already paid! These are the dimensions you need to talk about! In my view, what red and black budget policy has done in recent years can be summarized in several points: Contrary to all promises, especially of the ÖVP: Tax increases, now also €1.2 billion in final expansion, have already been decided. With the cuts: always linear, that is, always with the lawn mower method. The concealment of the costs of the banks and in particular the Hypo Alpe-Adria has also gone through all the budgets and all the financial frameworks. And what's also remarkable is: In recent years, there has been no serious attempt at the major reforms, whether this concerns administrative reform, pensions, social security schemes or other issues in this field. And in the current government agreement, you do not even have the right to address this. The cuts are presented as alternativesless. The word has to be broken on the tongue: alternatively without a voice! [[Abg. Kickl: The Unword of the Year!]] “There is no alternative!” – Margaret Thatcher was that then. I think that this is an absolute inability and inventiveness to call cuts in the field of education, science and research an alternative. [[Congratulations with the Greens as well as with representatives of Team Stronach and NEOS.]] I say this especially in the light of the background – you will remember, Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, with certainty; everyone will remember – with which vehemence the SPÖ has attached the educational issue to the flags in recent years – verbally. [[Keeping a panel in height with a white letter on a red background “SPÖ Education”]] Absolutely unimaginative! I would now like to quote you a quote from the "Presse" of 19. Readout April 2014: “Whether and how much is saved in education, no one wants to interfere in the ÖVP: Only the total amount of savings between the two parties had been allocated. As the SPÖ fulfils its share, it remains.” [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Completely absurd!]] [[Abg. Kogler: Very imaginative!]] So that actually means that you split the savings volumes of de facto according to Proporz. Then the world is in order without in any way making a political priority or at least having a discussion: What's important? What's less important? What do we need? The main thing is, everyone's half-carrying. So this is probably a declaration of bankruptcy of every political design claim, a true declaration of bankruptcy! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Stroll.]] I believe that we all agree that future sustainability for a budget is the most important measure. I think there is no need to discuss at all that the areas of school, school quality, but also science, research and innovation are essential for the next generation. I would like to remind you of an era, namely the seventies that we all, I think, know in any form from stories of relatives or acquaintances, as – you must also appreciate that too, and I think this is honoured by many political sides – in the era Kreisky has been a policy of education for people from far-off shifts, for children from educational layers and the education system has been established. Let us remember: Absence of the entrance exam in the gymnasium, school leave, free school books, abolition of the tuition fees, free access to higher education – these were different times in the sense! What do we have now? – Now there is an extreme pressure for the students. The Austrian families pay more than 100 million €. There are now restrictions on access in 28 subjects at the university. We do not need to talk about international rankings in many areas at all. Today we have students who work very much, who are in a very disturbing social situation, and also worry about our young researchers. This is the picture that one unfortunately has to draw in 2014 – and this contrary to all the promises of election, contrary to all the requirements that were imposed in this election campaign in the months before the 29th. ==References====External links== I quote from "Today" of 30. July 2013: “Walking is also an advantage” – remarkable! – because there are public discussions. This time I go in 21 discussions in TV, radio and newspapers.” That's what Werner Faymann says. “I will always explain in detail why education is so important. I am going to be an educational lobbyist.” [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] [[Abg. Brosz: The education didn't go away!]] So, Mr. Education Lobbyist, you say in another interview: “Everyone who has signed the popular desire wants essentially the same as me. If he wants his concerns to be implemented, he must also choose me (...) or someone who wants in education the reforms of popular desire and who also has the power to enforce them.” – That’s what Werner Faymann says in mid-September 2013 before the election to lure again the signatorys of the educational people’s desire to choose the SPÖ. Another quote, a few days before the election: “You cannot decompose rights from people who are not responsible for the financial crisis. (...) Education, research (...) are the right measures to come into swing.” And Faymann also says: “A re-election makes it possible to do a lot at the beginning. I'll start with education then." I wonder, What have you just started with? They have just begun to cut back on education, science and research, the so-called education lobbyist. And I'm telling you, that's not how it is! We will not accept this, and many Austrians will not accept it either. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Stroll.]] A joint decommissioning programme for education, science and research can be found in the Government Convention. I say this so cynically, because the sentences are so far away from the reality that we find them now. “All children should be able to grow up in Austria uncomplicated” – of course! – “and have the best prospects for the future. This is why we want to provide parents with education and care, as well as financial grants, and so on. support tax relief. Elementary education and care services are being expanded both quantitatively and qualitatively in order to provide an appropriate place for each child for whom a care place is sought. Children are being prepared as best they can for their further education career. The compatibility of family and profession is facilitated.” Does that look like you're not going to expand schools all day? Does this make family and profession easier to reconcile? – I think the answer is very clear: No, no, no, [[Abg. Krainer: That doesn't happen either!]] ==References== April on Facebook very aptly wrote the following: “In the public school I have looked after letter days and lubrications, bought in the gymnasium boxes and paid for re-help, and now I pay with the VIER Euro more of the family allowance the hypo debt. Sorry – I am not in the process of creative saving!” I think that should be taken seriously if such a cry for help comes. [[Congratulations with the Greens as well as with representatives of Team Stronach and NEOS.]] This is really an issue in the education system that we must devote ourselves to. Even if in the next five to ten years, there will be a great deal of effort in the field of administrative reform, it will nevertheless be necessary to invest more in this area. In particular, it is about sluggish privatisation in the field of education. The follow-up costs are, of course, the largest pieces, but they are also school events, parents' associations contributions, payments to the class phone, donations for school events, readings, fundraising for school infrastructure, sports equipment and machines that need to be rented out to companies, and also that the share of students in private schools has increased. These are topics that you really have to look at: How much is outsourced here in education that should actually be organised well and high-quality? The worst is the remedial costs. I can remember a headline in a daily newspaper – I think it was the daily “Today” –: Remedial action will be abolished. – That was, I think, your concern, Mrs Education Minister, too, and I am emphatically emphasizing it. Remedial action is one of the problems that the social segregation – that is, the very separation of those who can afford it, and those who cannot afford it – continues to intensify. So do not cut down, but take more money into your hands! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We all know the data, for example OECD comparison data. We are still far away from education justice. It is still extremely difficult in Austria to create an education rise. Education is still a inherited phenomenon. We all know these debates. And there are a very large number of questions that now ask themselves: What about the salary cuts of teachers? What about the structural effects? What about the switch from primary to secondary school? What about the construction programme for schools, for the renovation and for the new construction of schools? What about all day care? Report us really up to date what that means, and tell us really up-to-date and also comprehensible what needs there are! To stop or to delay or delay the expansion of all day care, that is not even an ideological dispute between SPÖ and ÖVP! Why you chose exactly that, it is no longer reasonable to explain. But you will certainly explain to us today why you have just come up with these measures. [[Federal Chancellor Faymann: I will explain it!]] I would like to come back to the second important area. I think it is also undisputed that the field of science, research and innovation is not only a central issue of location policy, but above all a critical debate – and that must be possible! – science and research deal with global issues. This is something very essential, including for our society. You can't solve tomorrow's problems with yesterday's knowledge. There is also room for critical discussion, and it is particularly difficult to find safety for young researchers. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is not enough to teach basic research to be a disfellowshipping programme, a real displacement programme for young people, which we urgently need in Austria. And once damage is done, it is irreversible. That must be known to all of us. We provide top performances, for example in the technical field, whether this is physics in Vienna or Innsbruck, Life Sciences. We have a lot of things to do, and it cannot be in our interest to go down! This decision is just ahead of you. Once the Minister of Science himself has to set up a petition in which he screams: Please see that we are making more money available for this area!, and if you look at the huge gap in this area, you can see: This is not just about cuts of € 47 million, but about additional financial requirements in the order of € 400 to 500 million – every year! – so as not to lose the connection. There is now no priority in this area again! How many decisions has this House taken? How many times have we decided on the goal of achieving a stable, internationally comparable level by 2020 and investing a certain proportion of gross domestic product in this area? And how far away are we now? We are far away, and now this gap is not being filled, but it is even shortened, and this is a shame for the scientific location and research location of Austria. I want this to be reversed. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Stroll.]] You have enough time to comment on all the topics, but I felt it was a very, very positive signal that there are also signs of resistance before the budget debate begins. I feel that this is a very positive thing for a ‘self-employed Parliament’ – under quotation. There was no priority in these budgetary negotiations. It was not discussed what is taboo and what is really important to us together, but it was divided in proportion. However, the National Council can now make this particular priority. That is why our offer, in particular to the young Members – there are a third of the Members in the House – is to make something different, namely that we are making a joint decision today, a budget template which does not reduce the budget for the fields of education, science and research. You can discuss everything else, but these are the areas that affect the next generation to a hundred percent, and we owe it to the next generation to give it exactly this security: Your areas will not be affected! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Stroll.]] That's a warm invitation. Don't do it as it has often happened in this House, that something simply comes into the house and is awakened, although one has a very, very bad feeling in the decision-making process, but here we try a fresh start of parliamentary self-confidence and we change this proposal for the Minister of Finance! A budget without cuts in education, science and research is to be presented.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e5354	Mr Faymann spoke in response to the question. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e5385	Madam President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The budget debate will then have the opportunity to examine in detail the figures presented by the Minister for Finance, but I can tell you now: If you compare the education approaches for the years 2014 and 2015 with those of the previous years, then you will notice that you are wrong that interestingly you find almost no cuts there, on the contrary. [[Abg. Kickl: “No cuts, on the contrary” – what does that mean?]] No, you will even see, around €8 billion are the budget approaches, and they stay in this order. You'll see. You will ask: Where are the cuts then? You'll be looking for a little. And I would like to tell you what we are actually discussing: not about the headings that I have just heard here, about education being shortened and education being taken not seriously, that is not important, but we are discussing the fact that, in the case of a budget which is roughly constant, in which there are no cuts you are talking about, we must be more efficient and economical, because we have higher expenditure in this educational budget in many areas. In other words, it is not a question of running some kind of barrage – this is suitable for superficial press releases, Mrs. Club Chairman Glawischnig, but this is not suitable for a debate on the fact that a budget of 8 billion is becoming more expensive because we want to set these priorities. On the other hand, there is also a need to save a little where savings and efficiency increases are possible. The interesting thing is that, when we talk about administrative reform and in the field of school, you are using the Court of Auditors' reports, that is to say, the debate between the Federal Government and the Federal Government, then you come out here on every occasion and say: Too little is done! – Now it is our task to save within these budget approaches where it is a dual track, and to focus on where priorities are needed. [[The FPÖ delegates shall keep records up to date with the heading ‘SPÖ-ÖVP Education Policy Not enough’.]] You will have enough opportunity to do so at the budget debate, as do all the others. And that you already know that this has not happened, even though you do not yet have it in your hands, proves to me that you will surely find it bad in two weeks, no matter what it says in this budget. To your claim, there is a budget cut, you would like to say that your statement, which must be taboo, is quite to be signed, because it is taboo that the approach remains the same, but that does not help the educational budget because some factors are rightly lost in the education budget, where you want to set additional priorities. The Taferl holders don't understand. I can understand that. But I beg you to see one thing clearly: When you put on the table that money is lost between the federal government and countries in the school administration – well, that's one of the approaches. [[Abg. Brosz: in recent years!]] [[Abg. Kogler: Where?]] Yesterday, the Minister of Education has rightly started a very serious discussion with the federal states about where, without saving in the classroom, administrative simplifications and improvements can be made. [[Abg. Walser: We discussed this in the Constitutional Committee!]] That's where you were until yesterday. What's today? Do you have to borrow the Taferls from Mr Kickl? [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Or are you not also of the opinion that it is right to take advantage of the principle of double-tracking between the federal government and countries? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler.]] So, and now it's convenient to argue where that's right.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e5485	Federal Chancellor, one second! Ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party, I ask you to put your plates back in! Please, Mr. Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e5503	Of course, all day schools must not be saved in what we spend during this period, but in all day schools there are amounts from the two previous years that have not been collected because they are needed in real investment by 2018, and the 50 million that have not been collected from the two previous years will be discontinued in 2018. [[Abg. Kickl: The Federal Chancellor has high blood pressure!]] Now I ask you: Why is this less for all day schools? – You will not be able to explain that to me either. [[Abg. Brosz: You promised an extension! That was your election program!]] – That's what I'm saying! Twice 80 million additional. So: To put these 160 million annually in a budget alone, you already have to remove double-tracks somewhere else. Or? Otherwise, you don't have the 160 million. And that's what it's all about. That we set priorities there, as in expanding the whole day school, where – I have not seen any Members at all, including the members of the government who had the opportunity to have a detailed discussion on the basis of budget documents, because the budget debate is only scheduled for next week. [[Abg. Brosz: The SPÖ delegates did not understand!]] I am convinced that there are representatives of opposition parties who do not bother to see what has actually changed where, but they are against it now and will be against it next week. [[Abg. Kickl: Talk to your party leader!]] But the more constructive I ask that we initiate a discussion on education and say: Yes, we have a very expensive education system, we do not want the most expensive of Europe, but rather the best of Europe. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Our goal is not to get from 2nd place per student in the European Union to 1st place, we do not want the gold medal in the issuing, but the gold medal for the best performances in the school. [[Abg. Kogler: Exactly!]] And that's why these double-tracks have to be addressed. [[Abg. Kogler: And that's why we're blackmailing the PISA test!]] If you blame us, this is faster, faster, better, more courageous and so on, then I think it is a constructive debate. But that you, who have been telling us for months, should show more courage in the discussion with the countries, now suddenly do not support us any more, shows that sometimes the polemics is more important to you than the policy of matters. [[Abg. Kogler: Yes!]] [[Abg. Kogler: Yes!]] [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kogler: That's not true!]] Since you have asked me a lot of detailed questions, knowing that, of course, I have to get the answers from the ministries – yes, this is the case, Mr Kogler! [[Abg. Kogler: Where is the offensive against the countries?]] That's where I expected your support. [[Abg. Kogler: Yes, eh!]] And suddenly, just because it is so cheap to say that there is nowhere to save in education, one must not suddenly save where there are double-tracks with the countries? [[Abg. Kogler: Oja!]] That's exactly the point where I'm saying: Here you have to have either a constructive debate or a kickl’sche. You can choose it in life. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Questions 1, 2 and 3: The OECD also assessed the reform dynamics in Austrian education policy, represented by Andreas Schleicher, for example in December 2012 with the following sentence: “In Europe, there are few countries in which, in as few years, there has been as much change as in Austria – with the New Middle School, full-day care, modular teacher education.” There are 20 network projects for the successful transition from kindergarten to folk school, more offers for all day school forms throughout Austria, information campaigns for all school partners, expansion of the possibilities of school autonomy and support for schools in their location development. It is an important point, for example, that if you support and strengthen the school at the site, you can reduce some double track in the administration and achieve a strong improvement on site. Best-practice models were also used for this. Questions 4, 5, 9 and 20: As I have said, the appropriations will not be cut in the budget appropriations. Nevertheless, because we have to use funds in different areas offensively and want to, of course we need savings. If we want to achieve a structural zero deficit in 2016, we will have to be committed to where there are double tracks and where savings are possible in the bureaucracy. We cannot always do something above if we want to achieve a goal, but we also have to question what it looks like with the existing resources. And to achieve a structural deficit in 2016, we stand because we believe it is better to spend our good tax money, the hard-earned tax money, on the interests of the country rather than on interest payments for government debt. A structural deficit is therefore a question of credit quality. Therefore, in all areas – including education, research and development – we will have to check whether expenditure is made which is not necessary, because we need money elsewhere more urgently. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] From 2009 to 2013, there was an increase of 13 percent in the budgeting of the educational budget. On average, there was an increase of 9 percent. When expanding all day schools, the total investment volume remains the same. In concrete terms, the countries were proposed to shift from €160 million already budgeted for 2014 to €50 million for the expansion of the whole day school, which remained out of previous years, to 2018 to use it, so not to delete it, but to realize it in this legislative period. Of course, countries are being stopped to push forward the development of all day schools, because this is a declared goal of our education policy. The extension of the upcoming projects is thus ensured. In principle, the countries have agreed to the one-time postponement of amounts which have remained out of previous years and have an employment in 2018. The countries are not yet in agreement with the other measures we are discussing with them, namely to what extent they could be saved outside the class, for example in the field of school administration. There's still a lot to talk about. And, indeed, our goal of eliminating double-liability has not yet been achieved. Questions 6, 7, 8, 22, 23 and 24: The aim of the Federal Government is to achieve a structurally balanced budget in 2016, as I have just said, not as a self-evident to achieve some savings, but as a means of saving money and paying low interest rates through the high credit quality of the country, as is the case at present. There are Germany, Austria and the Netherlands, there are a few countries with such high credit quality. And this credit quality must not be put at risk. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] To this end, adjustments in the tax field are implemented by the Tax Change Act. There is also the question of fiscal justice, which you have considered to be a priority, where there is a conscious focus on: see the limitation of tax deductibility of manager salaries, restrictions on group taxation and the prevention of profit shifts in tax havens. A fair discussion is a discussion like this: Where can you strengthen that? Where can you be faster? Where can you be better? Where can you make this even more efficient? – But I would like to put these objectives out of dispute. In preparing the budget, the Federal Government has set political priorities. Financially well-equipped offensive measures have been provided for in the budget. OECD statistics show that Austria is also one of the better countries in the field of expenditure. In 2010, we had a share of education expenditure for the tertiary sector of 1.5 percent of GDP; the 2020 objective remains to achieve 2 percent. On the question 11: It is a fundamental goal of education policy to reduce social barriers and increase equal opportunities. There is a particular emphasis on early childhood education. As part of the early linguistic support in the kindergarten, children with German as first or second language with corresponding funding needs are individually supported and accompanied intensively during their transition to the folk school. In schools with individualisation and internal differentiation throughout the school system, the students' potentials are discovered and promoted, for example multi-stage classes in the folk school, small groups teaching in the New Middle School or module system in the new upper level. I would also like to remind you of measures in the higher education sector – which will then be part of the budget debate. Questions 12, 13 and 14: The additional € 350 million for the extension of childcare facilities – this is now combined over the legislative period – and the 15a agreement on the qualitative and quantitative extension of childcare are currently under negotiation between the family ministry and the federal states. Details of the plans on how many cribs and kindergartens will be created by the federal states and to what extent resources will be used for quantitative expansion on the one hand and for quality improvements on the other, I can therefore tell you only after the conclusion of the negotiations, these will also be announced, but this approach exists and is a strengthening. This is also an example of the need to save on a total budget, which must be economical, where such priorities are set, which require €350 million of reinforcement, then of course must be saved in other areas, although under the heading “education” nothing has changed; but below it has much to change. Under this heading there is much to change, namely to save on the right place and to increase expenditure in the right place. Questions 15, 16 and 17: The Federal Government's work programme is designed for this legislative period, i.e. until 2018. The proposed points will be implemented step by step. The Minister of Education is currently negotiating with the school partners on the possibilities to improve efficiency in the education system. At the same time, it must be stressed that we have the third most expensive education system in the OECD and the second most advanced education system in the European Union, where savings are best to be made. On the question 18: Federal school construction projects in the school development plan 2008-2018, stand 24. April 2014: 117 projects, 42 percent completed; 30 projects, 11 percent in construction or construction start is in progress; 54 projects, 19 percent planning agreements are completed; 80 projects, 28 percent in preparation. No projects will be lost. Question 19: Yes, implementation is on schedule. On question 21: I don't want a country where there are nine different school systems. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] On question 25: I can refer here to the competence of the Minister for Science, Research and the Economy. In any event, it should be noted that the FWF has to decide on the basis of objective criteria free of political influence. On questions 26, 27 and 28: I should also like to refer to the competence of the Minister for Science, Research and the Economy. We are at the beginning of a five-year legislative period within which the measures contained in the government programme will be implemented. On question 29: As the BMWFW's draft assessment for the revision of the Studienförderungsgesetz, a number of improvements in the funding of studies have been made with the Budget Support Act, such as the increase in the access limit and the increase in the amount of amortisation. A total of € 5 million will be invested in the increase of study funding and the expansion of the contact group. Question 30: This question relates primarily to the scope of the autonomous universities. I also trust the Federal Minister for Science that he will take this challenge into account in the context of the next service agreements to be reached with the universities from 2015. In conclusion, I would like to ask you to promote every competition of ideas for this so important question of education, and to do so at all costs. And I would like to express my express thanks to Mrs Gabi Heinisch-Hosek, who is working here, for having had a discussion that we have held for so long in this House, namely to address this matter between the federal government and countries.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e5808	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes. Each club has a total speaking time of 25 minutes. Mr Dr. Walser is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e5835	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Minister! Minister! High house! ==References== April, you have a pink suit, and there are no cuts in the budget. [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] – For example, I can sum up what you just said. That's absurd, on your leave, that's absurd! We have been discussing budget cuts for two weeks, for three weeks, very concrete cuts. People are scared. The schools have riots. The parents protest. Your own party, your own party youth makes seat strikes. There are protests throughout Austria because education is cut short. And what are you doing? – They make themselves and say: There are no cuts! No, there are even extensions, we continue! We invest in education! So this has been an appearance, please, he is not worthy of this House, Federal Chancellor! I'm sorry. [[Congratulation with the Greens as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] But if you take it seriously, I hope you support me. And I can make the following request at the beginning. [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e5897	Ladies and gentlemen, I must interrupt you! The Bureau has no motion for a resolution. You must submit this request later. Please, keep going!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e5921	He'll be brought in later. [[Abg. Krainer: Is this April 1st? Do you have a yellow suit? He's good at the yellow suit!]] However, I should like, in advance, to look forward to the support of the various Members of the Government, who have made a loud announcement that what the Federal Chancellor has just said will happen, namely, no cuts, investments in education, new priorities. So we Greens are sure that we – Mr Commissioner – are not so excited! [[Abg. Krainer: Where else is saved! Under the rule, the budget remains high!]] I know it hurts you. [[Abg. Krainer: No! Under the rule, the budget remains high!]] I know that social democracy has once made a progressive education policy in the past. Unfortunately, this time is over. You need to rethink. Remember: Otto Glöckel, Fred Sinowatz, highly underestimated education minister, or Piffl-Percevic, to mention someone from the ÖVP. [[Abg. Krainer: Yes! We never underestimated him!]] These were education politicians who had backbones, who had enforced your opinion, even resigned in the case of Piffl-Percevic, Mr Cot. That's what we're waiting for! [[Abg. Krainer: There are a few more: Claudia Schmied, Hilde Hawkiek!]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: Heinisch-Hosek!]] No one in Austria doubts that we have to save a whole range of things. That's not a question at all! Of course, we have the money of taxpayers with care. This is not limited to Austria, nor is it limited to our time. In this context, I may quote a quote from the 19th century. ==References====External links==* Official website It's coming from. This was faced by his Minister of Finance with cuts in education. Denmark was then in bankruptcy. And what does the Danish king do? He says – I quote –: “We are poor and miserable. If we get stupid now, we can stop being a state.” Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Arbitrators: Are you monarch? Green monarch? Do you have to quote a king? Do you still have a Habsburg quote?]] Federal Chancellor! Is it a Social Democratic Chancellor in the Republic of Austria in the 21st century? In the 19th century, it was reasonable to have the same findings as a monarch in the 19th century. Did she have it in the 19th century? I hope so, because the cuts we have are unfortunately manifest. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] Col. Krainer is so excited again. Now don't rain, listen to this, and we'll continue to discuss it in peace! Don't worry! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Krainer.]] - They're yelling all the time. Listen to this! – As a financial expert, you should know that educational expenditure is investment in the future. [[Further calls from MEPs Krainer and Schieder.]] [[President Prammer gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. Krainer: into the future!]] Or? You should know that. [[Abg. Krainer: That's what I'm saying!]] - Okay. If you've heard it, please do it! In the field of education, exactly the same applies to each farmer: Whoever wants to reap, he has to sow before! These are investments! But what we are breaking here today we will not reap in 10 years or will reap it through higher social expenditure, through corrective measures, through corresponding problems. By the way, your former Finance Minister Androsch has put all of this before you. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Next point: All day school. – Mrs Minister, today we hear that there is no shortening. In the last four years, you have promised the 80 million you are now shortening four times as a government initiative. [[Interference of Federal Minister Heinisch-Hosek.]] Nothing came! Now tell us: Yeah, they're coming, but we're taking a little bit away from this increase, and that's not a cut, it's an increase! [[New interim remark by Federal Minister Heinisch-Hosek.]] With these magic tricks you won't convince the Austrians. I am also looking forward to what you will say about that passage in the government programme, which says that special education needs, that is, the needs we need for children with disabilities, are raised to the actual extent. At present, there are 2.7 percent of what we spend on school as a whole. The national leaders have said that the need is at least 4.5 percent. Mrs Minister, I am eager to see if you are going to implement your own programme or if that is not a reduction again. – Ladies and gentlemen, this is just a scandal! I can also refer to something else, namely: We should discuss matters in the field of education – and this is good use in the teaching committee. I'd suggest: We look at the teaching committee – and this would be important for the entire government – the ORF mission “School for Life”. It can be seen every Monday. Every Monday, examples are presented there, and it is very touching what is going on, because it is reality. This show shows, among other things, what is happening at our New Secondary Schools. For example: A class with 28 students, and a single student has German as a mother tongue. There are great concerns that teachers have there. What's the ORF doing? – He brings this New Secondary School together with an AHS sub-level, engaged five additional teachers, and already after a month you can see significant increases, see how the children – especially in the New Middle School – benefit, you can see how a pedagogical mood has arisen, namely at both schools. And the teachers of both schools say: Yes, we have to go in this direction! And what are you doing? – Mr Bundeskanzler, you have said you want to clean up the double tracks. And how does it look? – We have three tracks in the schools of the 10- to 14-year-olds: the AHS sub-level, the New Secondary School and the Special Schools. This means that we have three separate buildings, three separate curriculumes, three separate supervisors, three specially trained teachers – and so on. That costs hundreds of millions! Stop with this nonsense! Make a common school! Do what the successful countries have done! That is exactly where you have a potential for saving, one where it is worth talking about, because that is in the three-digit million area! Ladies and gentlemen! Save at the expense of children – we can't help Greens, we can't help that! We don't want to be responsible for that. Our resistance to this reduction action is certainly yours!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e6169	Mr. Klubobmann Mag. Arbitrators now speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e6214	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In itself, if you are properly led and also based on facts, an educational debate is something that is very important and good. For us Social Democrats in particular, the education system is a key issue for social development. This is about equal opportunities, it is about prosperity, it is also about the issues of the future. But the most important thing when discussing is to discuss the quality and not to discuss things twistedly by means of numeral foxes here. It is precisely the quality, the improvement of the education system that is at our heart, and I should like to give you a few facts in recent years. Since 2009, the educational budget has grown continuously. Just this year, there is also an increase of €200 million. We have 2 122 teachers since 2006 more than we still had 2006. While the number of officials and officials has declined in other areas of the Federal Government, it has risen in the education system. We currently have about 39 000 teachers in Austria who teach 121 000 pupils. It is true that in the past, in the Faymann I government and in the first months of the Faymann II government, many improvements have happened in the education system. But the discussion about the expansion of all day schools, which is a central element, is going wrong here again. Then: In the next five years, a total of €400 million will be available for the expansion of all-day schools on the part of the Federal budget. This figure will not change either, it will continue to remain €400 million. What the Minister intends to do is to use the €50 million that has not yet been charged and picked up by the countries in order to balance the budget bilaterally, but at the end of the day, where it is then needed in the billing, because then the all day school places are there to give up again, namely the 400 in 2018, that is, still in this legislative period. The important thing is that planning security is given, where the pressure on the expansion of all day schools remains, of course, in the future. What I am pleased about in this debate is the fact that it also gives us the opportunity to finally discuss the issues that are so important, namely, the efficiency of the education system, the elimination of double tracks, the administration of schools, the councils of districts and all the questions that need to be discussed, such as: Do we need to continue to do so in this form at all? Do we also need this key that a certain proportion of administrative places are created per teacher, or can we not also change this key in favour of less administration and more teachers in the classrooms? – That’s what I wish for, where we should go in the future! Also the pedagogical discussion, not only the material, the economic is to lead, such as the question: Do we need so many dwarf schools in Austria with small classes? Is it not only economic but also educationally better if there are larger units and they are put together? We need to discuss the federal/national ratio in all hardness: Education is federal. In fact, the Landeslehrerbudget is a budget trick of the 1960s, which has been causing problems for decades. These are the important points! I would like to tell you quite honestly where my group's personal and positioning lies. First: Education is federal. That is to say, no change in the education system and no change in the teaching system at all! [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and representatives of ÖVP, Greens and NEOS.]] Secondly, Cost truth. – Cost-truth as an economic principle also in the education system. And: An end to the trickery about planning positions, physical expenditure and all the things that happen between the federal government and countries. Thirdly, Give more autonomy to schools directly. – It is better for the directors and teachers on the ground to decide where they need to divert resources, because they know the children who know the classes who know the challenges. This is the goal in our education system: not to the countries anymore, but more directly to the school, directly to those responsible on the spot! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Stroll.]] If we were to strengthen the back of this discussion together with the Federal Minister for Education, then we would come closer to the goal of making our education system more efficient, not being saved in the class and yet finding out a better system at the end. That's what I wish for, what Gabi Heinisch-Hosek is fighting for and what for You will also have our undivided support in the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e6308	The next item is Mrs Jank. Madam President, you have been given 7 minutes of speaking time. But I will have to interrupt you after 5 minutes, because the session will be interrupted. Maybe you can split it up. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e6333	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Yes, I welcome the fact that yesterday, with the education councils of the countries, it was possible to reach a consensus on a basis of discussion to build on this also the necessary measures that need to be taken. I don't understand the storm of indignation when we ask: What does it need for necessary efficiency improvements within our system? Where do we have flaws? Where do we have double-tracks? Where are structures that we don't need? [[Abg. Walser: Don't look! Acting would be advocacy!]] I understand the excitement only if you can actually say: Yes, we are withdrawing the system, the class, the teachers, the resources needed there! But I don't see that! I believe that we are on the right track here with the countries. But the proposal, which is now on the table, should not be mistaken about this – and I am probably already with some critics – that it is a short-term measure that is now taking the air out of this hot or, as I think, overheated debate, because it is going in the wrong direction. So that must not be a mistake that we need, of course, structural reforms in the education system. The consensus that stands here therefore demands us. I hope that it will be confirmed by the countries too, because, if I have understood correctly, it was first discussed yesterday, and the proposals have been received positively. Of course, it has been shown that talking before is smarter than afterwards bringing things back to the ground. I also assume that this was the start. Mrs Minister, I also understood that this was the beginning of looking for the conversation with all those concerned in the future. We need an education system that meets social challenges as much as we have real political challenges on the other hand, for example in the field of economics, that our school system does what we need there. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Education is for a country such as Austria, which has no major resources, which cannot earn its money in the field of mass production, the turning point of our social system, our economic system, our prosperity in that country. We have mastered this well in the past, and we will do so in the future, if we can also understand here in this House that a co-operation is better than a counterpart, a “only-sich accusation”, which one or another would have done wrong, without any willingness to participate constructively in how a system can develop. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler.]] Every system needs a continuous evaluation, a continuous development. It continues to develop society, it continues to develop the economy. This, of course, must also be a school system. The Court of Auditors is constantly criticizing our expenditure. This too remains there or there without appropriate measures and consideration. We invest around €6 700 per student in the school, in the system. This puts us at the top of Europe, but without letting the students get to the top. That means, and that's what it's all about: Services in the school provide people. And in order for these people, our teachers, to be able to deliver these best achievements, they need framework conditions. These are the things we should discuss too! [[Abg. Kogler: There's no Sunday as much as you're making Sunday speeches here!]] The question is: Is there, in fact, where the employees of the federal government who work in school do their work every day, given what we as entrepreneurs need to give to our employees? What is the job of the school board? Shouldn't we also think about what school management needs to do in personnel management and what school management has to do in a school organization? I understand under school autonomy that the headmaster gets the full responsibility of the school, that he is given the opportunity to take in teachers, but also to drive them back out of the system if it does not fit. So you don't have to be a bad teacher, but you might be better off in another school or in another system. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the NEOS.]] Only then will we be able to develop our system in such a way that this system will satisfy our pupils. [[President Prammer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e6417	I shall interrupt the sitting until 1/15 p.m. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e6458	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll start the interrupted session again. Mrs Jank will now continue her interrupted speech. I'll set the speaking time to the missing 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e6488	Thank you many times, Madam President. – I was basically at the end, but only this speech, this short time, because at the end one can never be in the education system and not at all in the current situation. We need the best school system, we need it because it's about the future of our children, which must be designed so that they will also be able to shape our future. We must empower young people to do so, we must give young people the opportunity to make the most of themselves. It must also be said, however, that this debate must not conceal the fact that we have excellent young people in our schools, that we have excellent teachers that they must not be discouraged because of what we are discussing here, in what they are doing. They do incredible things, and they also need our emotional support. I thank you very much here and today for what is being brought in here. In changing our education policy, we will only be able to take one step at a time, and as a first step I will make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e6567	The motion for a resolution tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e6657	Mrs. Heinisch-Hosek has spoken. I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e6678	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! High house! I think it is a good opportunity to play with open cards here, to argue very openly, also to say how complex the education system is in Austria. I do not want to use the term “confusion”, but in the last four months I have had to realize that many different groups are involved, have really good ideas, but that all of them in one hat, literally, is a rather difficult undertaking. I think it is a good opportunity today to present again before the budgetary negotiations: What is it about? There are 1.1 million pupils attending training courses, which are taught in approximately 6,000 schools of 120,000 educators and educators. That one. This has a quite dimension and is not a small one. That's one. Who else takes care of the students? There are about 6,000 people who work partly in the administration, but also in the schools themselves, school guards, school secretaries. So all the people who, I think, and the parents want the best for our children. That's neither a Sunday talk nor anything else, but that's fact! Since so many want the best for our children, there is also a whole range of different opinions on how it could best go. In the last four months, it has not been possible for me to get in touch with the federal states enough. That was, as I said, yesterday the start shot, because many things happened – and I'm never too good to take things back if they don't fit – which I took back – I'm going to take it very soon – to try a restart. And this restart, I can say, could have been successful in that we want to get together regularly in the future. This has not happened very often in the past, that the Federation and the countries have done this in this form, except when financial settlement negotiations were and everyone is literally “run around his body” and has seen that he has just dried up his millions so that he can get them back for our children – I am only talking about education – and spend well. Apart from these few years in which financial compensatory negotiations have taken place, contact between the federal government and countries was only always possible if one had to complain about the other or if I had to find out again: Jessas na, now the countries have overrun by 2,000 planning posts because they have employed more people than we have granted them!, although we have a key as we distribute the agendas, and, and, and so. So all this I'm getting to know now how complex and how complicated it is. And I think you know just as well as I do, all of you from the federal states, all of you have to do with educational issues in your federal states somewhere, and all of you are confronted with many concerns that are addressed to you: He needs it, he needs it. Our kids would like it. There, I think, was a very good start yesterday, insofar as we said: We want to put together each month – very serious, open to results, without taboos – and say: Okay, cost-reality here! Okay, multi-tracks on the table! Okay, let's see how systems may overlap and how to unravel systems and how to combine systems more complexly, without saying now, that's against landing, or they definitely need landing. Fix is that nine different systems will probably not be able to run more efficiently than a system. But I would also like to address this very openly with the federal states, and the federal states are also ready to do so. That means, yesterday was the start. It was not possible to start this step in the short time, so that you can say now – and now I come back to the measures I have taken: In the administration we have found so many opportunities to save that our contribution to putting a budget on the table for the years 2014 and 2015 where you can say, okay, that fits that this would be covered. In the field of education, we have done our best. The approaches are roughly the same. The system is getting more expensive – it is not that education is getting cheaper. And more expensive – that has already been said today – doesn't necessarily mean better. The start yesterday, I think, can also be one for the better. I'm definitely going to try. We will also have these debates in the various federal states. So not only the country representatives come to Vienna, but we also go to the federal states and meet each time in another federal country. That is to say, it is a huge group of young people, for whom we have responsibility, for which there are different approaches and approaches, because on the one hand, in the rural area, there are already very small classes – something I don't think I want to change now from here – whereas in the urban area one has to say that sometimes it gets quite tight, because the classes are quite at the limit. What is also to be said today – and I believe that it is also important that we take this away – is that the social background of children can also be a different one and that we should look at it very carefully here in the future in the allocation of funds: Where are they most efficient and, above all, most effective? It is not only about saving, it is also about the effect of resource use on the children's educational success or about the fact that children can compensate for their educational disadvantages, which they sometimes bring with them. There has now been an area taken out, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, school policy. I have tried, with some measures – as I have said, these regulations will be withdrawn – not to reinforce these educational disadvantages in the classes, as far as possible, but to carry out retransmissions that I will still discuss, and to provide schools with much more autonomous facilities in their decision-making possibilities. I think it's important to say, for example: There are schools that do a morning. I told you about this in the Education Committee. The blocks simply – this school attempt is no longer available, but we will discuss it again in this form – twice 45 minutes together, thereby winning minutes and dedicating them, although it is more work for the teachers, to the children. The breakfasts in the early morning, doing things together, doing the same disadvantages and creating a climate within a school not only of good living together, but also of effectiveness and, in principle, of efficiency, because it allows more time for children to be used to compensate for disadvantages. That was just an example I'd like to get along with you into a big autonomy package. But at the same time, I think, one must also note that, among other things, the one or other allowance has to be rethinked that there is still a potential for savings here, that one may not always be able to see that in classes where there are less than 15 children, there must also be two teachers inside. So I want to ask myself all these questions together with the countries. This was not possible in this short time. The measures have been withdrawn, and now we are dealing with: How can we achieve the goal of increasing costs in the education system – that is, once again – without saving a single cent in expanding day care? This gross misunderstanding should be clarified: It is true that in the past – about the years 2011 and 2012 – everything could not be built and picked up, and I get it now. The countries are still testing, I do not have a yes – so please not too early yet – but I am optimistic that this amount, this remaining, will not be charged 50 million € for the present Saving target can be used to achieve this – because I also save 28 million, I save 40 percent in my own administration to achieve the goal this year; so it is not – that I can take that – with the guarantee: At the end, 2018, it will be put on again. That is, the sum of €400 million remains the same anyway, for these were the five times 80 million that came to the 80 million from the past. That is to say, the countries actually have good 160 million a year at their disposal. We agreed this year: We'll plan 110. After all, it has been a quarter of a year, and the countries can appreciate what they still need and what they no longer need. And the 50 could be available for cover this year – with the guarantee that it will come back to it at the end. – So that seems to be a real misunderstanding. This is the second step that has been successful yesterday, namely for the first time to get from the countries the promise that funds that have not yet been used can be used for something else at once, but in the end definitely must land in the whole day school, as they have ended up there in the past. And you must, please, do not ignore: There are 400 million more available, 350 for the little ones. I'm already in school politics with that. . Very briefly, Madam President, perhaps a few minutes. I'll get the sign anyway when the 10 minutes have expired. – It’s about getting started, it’s about getting started in the school system, and it’s about getting out of school, getting out of school, it’s about other orientations: whether it’s a teaching after compulsory school, whether it can be a secondary school or also a study. All paths should remain open in the future. There are scientists who say it doesn't always matter to the size of a group, it depends on the relationship between people. That is, in the very small groups, it is so that we might consider how we change this situation for our children. In the very large groups, of course, we have to ask ourselves the question: How can we share well so that children also receive the best possible education? Just as children, students and students have completed their diplomas, when they leave, we must ensure that we can also provide the necessary resources in the future for the next way – not only in the field of education, but also in the field of lifelong learning – that we can also provide adults in Austria, who do not have a compulsory school degree that cannot read, write and calculate enough, well, namely in adult education, that they are able to complete their diplomas, that their path is not installed. It has been a dramatic increase in unemployment in the elderly, and it is not only the Minister for Social Affairs and Labour, but we are also doing so in adult education. That is, a segment has now been severely criticized. I have taken action back, I have launched a restart, and I believe and hope that it can work well with the federal states for the first time for many years by reaching our goal, not only that, but also by saying in the field of education: You don't have to save there! You can also achieve best education with constant means and more intensive means and resources for day-to-day care! We're on a path we've started. We're not finished yet. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[13:29]] [[13:30:01]] Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e6805	I'm advocating deputies Podgorschek, Mag. Kogler, Ing. Lugar, Dr. Hable, colleagues according to § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requested a Committee of Inquiry to examine political responsibility for the operations relating to the use of the Hypo Group Alpe-Adria. In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure proposed that a debate be held on this request. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, this debate and the vote will take place after the agenda has been completed. Mr Klubobmann. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e6839	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! John F. Kennedy has once shaped a saying which is also quite appropriate for today's debate: “There’s only one thing that’s more expensive than education in the long term, that is not education.” – That’s what he’s doing very well. And, of course, there is a controversial debate today, Mr Bundeskanzler, Minister of Education, and, of course, a critical debate, because it does not come about, but it has been discussed in the public in recent weeks that there will be massive savings in the field of education. And if you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and also you, Mrs Education Minister, have made and said today in the course of your speech, no, that will not be the case, and there is now a reduction in the planned savings and there may even be more in the budget at the end, then these are certainly good and right steps which have obviously been taken through a critical discussion, but which, in the context of the budget debate, still have to face a critical review, because there we will see whether your words are really true and whether these steps will really be implemented. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You said today, Minister of Education, we all want the best for our children – that is perfectly right – and everyone has a different access to this goal. Of course, there are different approaches, but there are also results, and there is also quality that is verifiable. It is therefore particularly a pity that you, as Minister of Education, have cancelled your participation in the PISA study for the next time – because that would be exactly measurable results and foundations on which we could build up. It is particularly a pity that you have done this, and I cannot understand to this day your reasoning that it should be reasonable. I say that it is certainly not a reputation if Austrian participation in this study will not take place at the next time. We have been discussing savings plans in the public over the last few weeks, in view of which it is impossible to go to the agenda, especially since the Chamber of Labour, the action of critical students, the VSStÖ and other organizations close to you have strongly criticised the planned savings in the field of education. Today, we have the highest cost compared with the European Union, as we have heard several times, but when we face it with quality and results, it is simply not satisfactory. There is an educational disaster, for which, of course, those responsible can also be found. There has been a policy in recent decades, in which there has been a permanent It is a matter for the Commission and the Council of Ministers of the European Communities to take action in the field of education and training in the field of vocational training. One experiment after another was carried out, and one tries to shave all children with their talents and performance possibilities over a comb, also in the area of the general school – which we consider to be missing. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The overall school would bring down a levelling and could not address the different abilities, strengths and weaknesses of the students. That's our position. That's where we have different positions. We also experience, of course, ideology on the part of social democracy in many educational debates, which have made many ideological decisions over the last few decades, with the ÖVP leaving its basic positions in many areas, for example in the field of general school, and many citizens cannot understand it. And of course we need to discuss this. Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, you have, of course, seen a resistance in the last few weeks, which may have led to a rethinking. It would be desirable for that to be the case. But, as has been said, we will review it next week within the framework of the budget. It is also important, perhaps, to keep track of the following: Of course, we also have to deal with a educational failure, when, as has been mentioned today by the Clubwoman Glawischnig, parents are permanently forced to allow their children to re-help. The fact that many families, which are at times already at risk of an existence-threatening level of salary development, are trying to spend the last money on supplementary education, so that the children have a future, is also a symbol of a missed school system. Of course, we need to start that, and that requires better developments. The whole day school is a step in the right direction – according to the principle of voluntaryity. This is also important: There must be no compulsion. But where it is necessary, with single parents et cetera, it is good if there is this extended offer, and there you have to invest further. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] I am therefore glad if that happens as you did before. But of course we also have the problem that the SPÖ always fights the principle of performance in the field of school. This has also been negative in recent years. Then there is the discussion: Do notes make any sense at all? Let's get the notes out of here. If you have two fives or threes, you still get up! – What is it for a service company that is being raised there? To inform students that without performance they can also get to the next level, to a higher level – according to the motto: directly from school to minimum security! – that cannot be the principle on which we want to build! We also want to raise performance-oriented young people and finally find performance-oriented people who can also meet the needs of the labour market. There is, of course, also a deficit if you are constantly trying to: Sense of an equalizing way to levelle everything down in the school system. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the Court of Auditors has also criticised the so-called New Middle School. According to the Court of Auditors' report, the decision to introduce this school form in a comprehensive manner was taken unlawfully, without adequate evaluation of the results of the New Middle School. And there are now also comparative values, namely first meaningful comparisons of AHS, primary school and new secondary school for the subject English. A test was carried out in which all the school levels took part, and the results were sobering – and on the basis of this one has to discuss. In the AHS the students reached out loud Bundesinstitut für Bildungsforschung an average score of 600, in the primary school 480 and in the New Secondary School 478. This shows that, unfortunately, in the field of the New Middle School, the success which you would have wished for has not been achieved and which has actually been designated as an objective. The clear winner of these tests was the AHS sub-level in all federal states, which cut off at least 100 points better in each federal state than the New Secondary School. If you then express this in percentages, the AHS sub-level has better cut by 17 to 25 percent depending on the federal state. And that is quite serious to take. We cannot talk about a gold medal, but perhaps we must speak of a ‘not enough’ that the government or the Minister of Education has left in this area. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] These are, of course, ideology-prestige projects which, of course, are to be continued and expanded among the governments of Faymann I and II. And that's why you have to discuss it. If there are millions of euros spent and, according to the Court of Auditors, the number of teachers per student is an average of € 7 200 per year, i.e. 53 per cent higher than in the other schools and school levels, then that is of course something you need to discuss. Then the system is not efficient and not targeting. And that's where you're going to have to think about it. Unfortunately, despite the additional secondary teachers, the New Secondary School has not achieved the corresponding results and improvements you have predicted, Mrs Minister. So it is also important to think about whether this was a wrong path and whether there could and should not be better ways. Of course, a key problem, which has already been addressed today, in the field of education – which continues to sink – is the increase in the proportion of students with non-German language. To hide that would be nonsense. There are developments, as mentioned today, where in some school classes only one or two children with German native language sit. In the end, of course, one should not wonder if there is no preschool in Germany from the age of 5, but only the care model in the kindergartens. It is nice when there is a care in the kindergartens, but it belongs to a better system set up. There needs to be a mandatory preschool with an actual German focus, so that the children will then be from compulsory school age or at the latest with 7. Year of life can also really follow instruction and not be dragged unnotated. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Unfortunately, there is still a great deficit to date, it is getting bigger and bigger. The proportion of non-German language students is currently 27 percent in Austria, and this share will continue to rise in the next ten years – as forecast – towards 40 percent. Of course, it is also necessary to evaluate the results of the PISA study accordingly. We are currently in the agglomeration centres, where there are these problems in the school classes, even the worst results, which you can't simply push away. This can be seen particularly well from the example of Vienna, because Vienna as a city is also a municipality and therefore can also be found in the PISA studies, because there are hardly any communities that have more than a million inhabitants. There you can already find out why Vienna has cut off the worst in these areas, which I say clearly. It is therefore important to take this seriously and counter it and, of course, to address and address problems in the area of integration. If today, some of the situation in Turkish immigrants is such that 89 percent do not speak German at home, then this is not a desirable state and then one will have to consider how to counter it so that one can continue to better results in these areas, for the benefit of all the people living in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e6959	Mr Ing. Lugar is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e6980	Madam President. High house! 80,000 people in Austria have failed in our education system. It's almost a city like Klagenfurt! [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Almost an entire city like Klagenfurt has failed in our education system. [[Call the SPÖ: from Klagenfurt!]] These 80,000 people who have not been able to learn to read and write in nine years – in speech and writing nine years – have no perspective. They have no perspective because they cannot read, write and count what is necessary to make a contribution to this society. Every year you produce additional people who leave compulsory schools and cannot read, write and calculate. For years in the education discussion – I don't want to say: for decades – it's always about where we can save. It's always about the question: How can we make it cheaper? [[Federal Minister Heinisch-Hosek: That's not true!]] It is of course true that we have an education system that is one of the most expensive in the world, but is it not more reasonable to leave costs at this level and to raise the level so that we also have the best education system? [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: I can't hear this anymore!]] Or do we do what you want, namely to save that the costs ultimately meet what we achieve, so to speak, that the output depends on the costs? – This is certainly the wrong way! If we had no education system in Austria, would you put it up as it is currently set up? Let's have a thought experiment! If we didn't have an education system, do you think that anyone here, including the government bank, would come up with an education system that's set up as it is; it hasn't been changed for almost 230 years; in the end, it's only cost produced in a multi-competence jungle, where only € 2 comes in the class and the rest is sifting somewhere? Would we choose such a system, or would we choose a system that others have already successfully implemented? There is a school system in Austria, which works in parallel, which also has good success, at lower costs. Do you know what this school system means in Austria? - These are private schools. Unfortunately, it is not everybody who can afford it, and that is exactly the problem. Those who can afford it send their children to a private school – a lot of politicians I see here, by the way, do just that, including the SPÖ, pay for it because they can afford it, and all others go to public schools and have the problem. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: Who? Tell me who!]] [[More calls at the SPÖ:Who?]] [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. Heinzl: Names!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] I've always been accused of making teachers bashing here, but that's not the case. There are enough people in Austria who know how to improve our school system, namely the good teachers we have. 90 percent of teachers are good teachers, and I also know a lot of people who are very committed and very hard to do and strive, only politics throws them to the feet, and that's exactly the problem. This is the problem we have, and we will not solve it either, Mr Chancellor and Mrs Minister. They don't want to solve the problem either. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: Have you not listened to the woman minister?]] In the end, you want to do nothing more than keep the influence of politics and abuse the school system in order to have care posts for your party officials, for your fellow workers and for your friends. That's how it works! [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Doppler.]] Look This is what happened in the past at the District School Councils, at the National School Councils. That's all it was about generating supply posts, not to mention anything else. In the end, you don't care about the students, because if you don't care – let's assume that it's not so; let's assume that you don't care about party politics, but actually the students – then you've changed something for a long time. It's not that difficult! It is not at all difficult to create a successful teaching, because you don't need much extra money either. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: This is a madness!]] What do you have to do? – You have to give the local teachers the opportunity – the possibility! – to address the students. But that's not the case. Read through the curriculum! If you read through the curriculum if you make the effort, you'll see, there's a lot of world view inside, there's a lot of ideology inside and there's unlikely much inside that no one needs anymore. You don't have to put everything possible into your head, which you can find on the Internet in 30 seconds. The curriculum, as it now exists, reflects a time that has been over for a long time, but it has not yet arrived with you – and that is because you believe you know it much better. You believe you know what in Vienna in the 10th century. ==References== District, Perchtoldsdorf and somewhere in Bregenz is necessary – but you don't know that! You don't know, you can't know either. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Do you know?]] I don't know, either. Do you know who knows? – The local teachers know, and that is why we need autonomy. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: Have you not listened today?]] [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I heard today from the ÖVP that she is now also slowly jumping on this train and demanding autonomy, at least verbally. I am excited whether Mr Pröll sees this as it is because he does not want it; he wants to continue to influence the schools in the beautiful Lower Austria. If we assume it is, I can only tell you one thing: If the schools are autonomous and have an educational goal from above, then we finally have the opportunity to control. The local teachers can then implement what they can implement, namely, successful teaching – that is not the case at the moment – and then we will not “produce” 80 000 people, who ultimately have no chance in the labour market. One more word because You always say we don't have money and have to save: We've got enough money. We're spending summaries – and now I'm not talking about the hypo, it's already dried up. Look It's just once, in which mountain we don't drill a hole for billions, and no one knows if the money ever comes back! In education, every euro we put in is returned to the economy with 4 €. And on the other hand, we're building for billions of roads and tunnels that no human needs. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl.]] I know why you don't care. The effects will only be visible in ten years, and there you have been in pension for a long time. – That may be already, but in the end – and there you can look at the companies – it’s like this: If an entrepreneur starts to save on his employees in research and development, then the company will die. That's just a matter of time. It is also in an economy: If an economy ceases to invest in education, invest in education, then the economy dies, and ultimately our whole wealth is at risk. That's why: Let's go from the cost discussion to a quality discussion! This is what our children deserve, and it has earned all of Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e7175	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Strolz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e7196	Madam President. Appreciate High House! Representatives of the Government! Dear citizens! Dear hypo-number! Education is the subject – I thank the Green Group for making this issue the subject today. I think that's important. Education is the most important thing we can do in this House. We are all born free and equal in dignity. – This works in Austria; not in every country in the world. And then what is it about? – Then it’s about unfolding as a human being. It is about unfolding, the unfolding of man. [[Abg. Kickl: (a corresponding movement with both arms indicating) wings!]] We are also committed to this development as a liberal citizen and citizen movement. [[Abg. Kickl: (remarking a corresponding movement with both arms) Go but only with resistance!]] This is so important to us as nothing else: that the talents flourish in this country. I want the talents to flourish like the cherry trees in spring, they should blossom as lushly as the cherry trees in this country. The problem is that the talents in this country do not flourish, but – we have just heard from Mr Lugar – 80 000 people do not have a chance in the labour market because they simply do not find themselves in this system; a quarter or a fifth cannot read, count properly according to the last surveys. Especially many children with migration backgrounds fall into this group. Dear Heinz-Christian Strache, I am not your opinion – your opinion; we are still on you –: These are our children. What children are our children, if not these? In the agglomerations more than 50 percent of young people have migration backgrounds. Their share will go up to over 60 percent. You can discuss how it came about. I also believe that this discussion should be held. How can we control integration? The Red and White Red Card, for example, is a pipe-creper, we know everything, but that is just another aspect, a small aspect of this debate. But of us there is a clear confession: That's our kids too! And we collect the so-called foreigners' children in special schools. We have partially abolished special schools, I know; we collect them in primary schools, or what these schools are called. But that can't be! The hypothesis cannot be that foreigners are twice as stupid as domestic children. However, it says the statistics because they are overrepresented in special schools and underrepresented in prestigious other school types, in higher schools et cetera. All these are indications that there's a lot going on, and that's what we want to change. It is true that the Federal Government – I know you are trying, I also see that some right things happen – does not show enough determination. This government, ÖVP and SPÖ have two major preferred errors. We have already talked about a preference error, namely the preference for the long bank as the favorite gym. Everything you're somehow looking at with question mark, move on to the long bank: Pension reform, health reform, federalism reform. The Court of Auditors has already made great proposals in 2011 – together with the IHS, the Wifo, the KDZ Center for Administrative Research – how to create effective and effective governance in the school administration. – None of it will be implemented. Many other experts have said this for years, they know. Mrs Minister, I am pleased that you are now having talks, but you lack the determination. The conversations now lead you out of a pressure of embarrassment, and on this basis, of course, nothing determined can grow in results. This is my appeal: We need to come to other solutions in terms of school administration! Not the long bank is the place where this issue should land, but in speaking and then especially in doing so. But I just don't trust this government because it still has a second preference mistake, that's the favorite work equipment – the favorite gym is the long bank – the lawn mower. The lawn mower belongs to the depot, which we do not need in politics! The policy of the budget has the possibility to indicate a direction. However, you do not trust this because you have no room for manoeuvre because of the first problem that you are not going to reform; therefore you have to use the lawn mower. Yes, I see you kneeling at the device and asking: Can't we put one millimeter higher in education? – But I don’t want to talk about Millimetres! I don't want to talk about lawn mowers in education either! I would like to talk about other craftsmanship equipment, and that is particularly important. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Today, the issue of autonomous school has often been addressed. I think that's great. Brigitte Jank, we invite you as a speaker for our upcoming initiative because I love how far you want to go in terms of autonomy. Of course, the school ideally needs – and so we want it – human autonomy that teachers are hired at school, a framework collective contract and no longer a teacher service right. We need educational autonomy, we also need financial autonomy. I know that the SPÖ Members do not want to go that far yet, but perhaps we all go on a trip together. We want NEOS to continue to make education the top issue of this Republic, and we also need to look at how we can bring it into appropriate and effective processes. That's why I'm calling the first one today. May be the day of education. [[The speaker shows a table in the form of a calendar sheet, according to which the 1. May is the day of education.]] We want NEOS the 1st. Act May in the future as the day of education! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] Day of work in honour, great history, but the future of this country decides on education! This is the key to the lives of these young people sitting up there. [[pointing to the gallery]] I also believe – if we look at the factor work – that there is no better insurance against unemployment than education! ==References====External links== May as the day of education the correct, contemporary interpretation of the day of work in the 21st century. ==References== We'll be on the 1st. In May, a national initiative to strengthen the autonomy of schools was launched. We will bring a one-year trial across the country to which we invite you all. We will make citizen forums, educational forums in all the federal states. We will organise stakeholders dialogues to which we invite SPÖ, ÖVP, FPÖ, Greens, the Stronach team and the social partners. We would like to talk about what a common plan for the autonomous school can look like. We're talking a lot about autonomous school here, but we haven't found a common way yet. I would like us to prepare great litters for the next government period optimally, and we need to organise this in successful processes, not in ad hoc conversations that arise on the basis of embarrassment. This is the invitation, the 1. May as the day of education is our start. I don't have to admit to the SPÖ that they're the one. May be seen as the day of education. I know you have a great tradition, and I have great respect for it. But I think you understand what I mean. It is a contemporary interpretation of this important day for us. [[Abg. Heinzl: Take the 1. April!]] I think you also understand where I want to go: that we say education is the key to a successful life, of course also for a successful career. That's our invitation, you'll learn details from us. We'll start in an internal round with a few hundred people we'll meet in the next few weeks, and we'll go into the width in September. After the first half of the one-year process, this national initiative to strengthen the autonomy of schools, we will also address you with the ideas we have, and we will then want to deepen them with you. I'm looking forward to a good discussion. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e7317	Mrs Maurer is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e7338	Dear Seers! Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President. Unfortunately, the Federal Chancellor has already left us again. – The SPÖ once had an educational politician and a science politician who actually deserved this name: Hertha Firnberg. It has launched in the 1970s the most central educational reforms we have had in the last century. Many of you who sit here sit here – possibly, probably – because she has made it possible for you to mate that you start your studies and also complete them. Hertha Firnberg's reforms with the introduction of student free travel, with the abolition of the tuition fees, with a groundbreaking university reform, with the abolition of the admission examination to the gymnasia have led to the expansion of education in the 1970s. Girls and women in particular have benefited from this; until then, the universities were still very strong in men's hands. All these reforms were borne by a central conviction that in a democratic society it must not depend on which family one is born into, with which income parents must get, whether one grows up in an environment where a study is considered normal or not – all these things must not be decisive for whether one comes to education or not, whether one is allowed to study or not. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This social question was once at the heart of the Social Democratic Party. The emphasis, however, was on it, because it is obviously not anymore. She's the one who's got it. She's the one who's got it. As if you were still the educational party in bad shape – you place it in election campaigns, proclaim it in speeches; we have heard today: Education lobbyist Faymann – as measured by your actions, however, this claim can no longer be maintained, because what you do – and it always counts the actions and not the words – is, you shorten. You cut back on education, you cut down on science, you cut back on research, so in those areas that you have still presented in the election campaign as those in which there is no way to save, in which you have to invest in times of crisis, and so on. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] Today, when I read on Twitter in the morning, that now, instead of class size, all day schools have to believe in it, I thought: The good Hertha Firnberg is now certainly turning around in the grave, for who is taking this measure? – Of course again – it is a measure that men and women should take equally, but in reality it is unfortunately still such that women in this country must take care of the children – especially women! In science and research, it has always been the same mourning game for years. Science policy in SPÖ is simply inexistent. Their Klubobmann Schieder did not even address science in his speech, and the Federal Chancellor did not seriously answer any of my questions from the field of science. He says he's not responsible. But he is head of government and very well responsible and responsible for the government programme that has been decided. He is responsible for the cuts, he is responsible for all sub-areas. He is responsible for the fact that the universities are not on the list of priorities, but on the list of cuts. Education on the level of kindergarten and school, on the other hand, is quite easily marketable, because it is about small children who are well printed on posters and who can also sell the boulevard, to which the Federal Chancellor is very close. Science is getting a little more complex. There it takes a little more horizon and a lot of vision, and the neglect does not surprise us either, because Austria is a very anti-scientific country. We are number one in the field of science hostility within Europe. 60 percent of the population believe that science has no influence on their everyday lives. Apparently this is the same on the government bank. Otherwise, I cannot explain the ignorance of this government to the scientific community. 50,000 people have signed a petition that demands nothing more than the guarantee, the security of status quo, €1.6 billion for universities, for basic research. 50 000 people have signed this, without having done so much to lift it, such as the petition for a hypo committee, and both Faymann and Spindelegger have refused to accept this petition. They sent the exponents to Danninger. The scientists have crawled there and have had to pass this petition on to the public under the exclusion of the public. This is a shame and a very clear sign of how this government deals with science and research. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Hertha Firnberg, in the SPÖ, obviously, has nothing left in the question of education, especially in the field of science and research. The SPÖ has been concerned about science policy for many, many years, and even in education, the commitment is very ending, as we now see, in the face of the cuts we are facing. The Federal Chancellor has said that the 2-percent target for the tertiary sector remains stable, but I wonder how It's supposed to go. Perhaps this is like a magic trick like the one we've heard about today, because the cuts are not really cuts. In any case, it is clear that the current budget, which is presented with all the prospect after next week, will certainly not be able to achieve the objective with the cuts in the expenditure on discretion in the field of science. The Federal Chancellor has today repeatedly stressed that achieving the structural zero deficit is the most important concern for him. That speaks a very clear language. This is more important to him than the improvement of the education system, it is more important to him than the provision of science and research. – I honestly don’t know what else to say. That already speaks very clearly for itself. – Young people, the future of this country, are obviously nothing worth this Chancellor. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Our education speaker, Harald Walser, has already said this: Our bitter resistance is certain to you, and in this sense I will submit the request previously announced: [[Quoted print version removed]] That is one request; and the second request I would like to make again also underlines what has been decided very often. It's a shame, it's a scandal that you have to bring this in at all, but: Resolution The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government is invited to submit to the National Council a draft budget ensuring adequate funding of the fields of education, science and research to: the implementation of the “Science is a future.at” petition and thus the 1.6 billion in the field of science and research; and implement at least the measures provided for in the Government Convention on Education. In addition, the Federal Government should immediately launch a comprehensive reform of the school administration in order to eliminate double-tracking and intransparency.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e7472	The motions for resolutions tabled by Mrs Maurer are sufficiently supported and are therefore under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording:
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e7606	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Grossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e7627	Mr President. Ministers! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! An equal education system is the basis for the development of a human being and for society. I Mrs Maurer, and my sons, whom I sent to public primary schools, Mr Lugar, and from whom I have also become something, to the academic career, were able to benefit from a good public school system. So we have a good public school system, and the SPÖ is and remains the educational party. There is no doubt at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] Every euro, every cent spent on education, is well-created money when it is spent in a targeted way. Accordingly, the increase in the education budget in general is also a good investment in the future. Nevertheless, I also say it quite openly, when the Ministry of Education's savings are given to the Ministry of Education, it is not a small sum, but a large sum, considering that the majority of the educational budget is linked to staff fixed costs and, of course, cannot be created in the resort as well as any reserves, and in particular, when one considers that important educational innovations, which we have jointly decided, are largely unanimous, such as the reduction of the maximum number of class students or the roll-out of the New Middle School, which is completely unfairly spoken by Mr Klubobmann Strache, or also the promotion of language, among them. An inclusive school is also something which is a very, very important project, which is also consistently being worked on, Mr Strolz, perhaps looking at You're also looking at the models. This is a good approach, but it cannot be done enough at all – I am right to say that even more needs to be done, because you can hardly do enough. All of this, of course, requires staff, and all these are well-connected funds, important investments. I would not have taken a drop in the quality of education, nor would I have taken place. However, the amount required is already a huge challenge, and the Minister has now chosen a measure which is probably least invasive, namely to disburse the funds provided for the expansion of all-day school forms in such a way that they are asked to budget in accordance with the requirements, but of course this with the aim of consistently expanding all-day schools and, above all, of creating comprehensive offers for all those who want to take advantage of these offers. Freedom of choice is often demanded. In this context too, of course, there is also the possibility of choice, and we want to give it to the families accordingly. Of course, the school administration reform needs to be addressed in a consistent way with the aim of reducing double-tracks and also over-administratives. That is why I have called for it, and you have also tabled a request for a thorough examination of all regulations and procedures in the field of education and for a review of their need. There should be much more on-site responsibility and decision-making. If we are talking about school administration reform, I would like to warn against the provincialisation of the education system. This would make the education system neither more efficient nor cheaper nor more efficient. It must not depend on the place of residence of a student, which educational opportunities he/she finds. We need the best education system in all of Austria, and in doing so I am looking for you to cooperate consistently and to put the joint before the end of the separation. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e7712	The next item is Mr Asdin El Habbassi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e7733	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Dear Seers! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) First of all: It is important not that it is not saved, but that it is important that it is not saved on the quality of the class. At the beginning, allow me a brief comment: As a young person who still has a bit ahead of him in life, and as a member of the parliament who is committed to future-oriented, sustainable policy, I am glad that this government has made its way to create scope for action for our and future generations, and is also consistently continuing to pursue this path. And I am also very grateful, Mrs Minister, that you have withdrawn your proposals, which, in fact, by increasing the number of divisions and other measures, have affected the quality of school in my opinion, and that new proposals will be reintroduced and we can now discuss them. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, I don't quite understand you. Mrs Glawischnig has said that we should have turned every cent in the school administration for a long time and look at how we use the money. If that's done now, what's bad about it? [[Abg. Kogler: Where?]] [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: I am very pleased when this actually happens!]] Mrs Glavischnig, it is important that not quality is saved, but that we get more efficient administration and better education. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Walser said that investment in education is investment in the future. – That’s not always true! We know that per capita expenditure in education rose by almost 25 per cent from 2007 to 2012. I don't know what kind of impression You have, but I don't have the impression that the quality of teaching would have improved by 25 percent over the past five years. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Who was in the government?]] That is why we need a lot of action. Look, students and students I am talking to do not understand why we need money to provide a raillet with the name Neue Mittelschule and thus make advertising. The teachers I am talking to do not understand why it takes several days of networking meetings to open up a new school system. And we also know that we have huge differences in administrative costs in the various federal states. In Burgenland, for example, the per capita costs of the administration are € 134, while in Upper Austria they are three times as low, i.e. only one third of them. If you listen to those affected, you will notice that you could probably continue this list of things that are worthy of improvement for a long time. That is why it is important that we take a very close look at this so that we get efficiency in administration and better education, and that we do not just look more closely at it, ladies and gentlemen, because the title is education. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The fact is that: We have a lot to do in the field of education. It is now about this, and this is your job, Mrs Minister, together with the countries, the school partners and other stakeholders, to draw up proposals on how we can meet the budget path that has been decided. Mr Rosenkranz, it is not a goal if we find out today via OTS that you are making a mistrust request to Mrs. Minister, because this does not help students, it does not help teachers and that does not help the education system in Austria at all. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: I am submitting the request to Parliament!]] Mrs. Minister! I have to make a critical comment now: Many of those involved in education and who are very involved often have the impression that the dialogue with the school partners is sometimes granted a bit of a situationary. [[Abg. Kogler: That's really a weighing printer, isn't it?- Oh, my God!]] If we want to implement reforms in the field of education, if we really want to increase the quality of education and eliminate unnecessary administrative duplication, then we need reforms, and then we need a discussion. I would like you to say that there is no reform without a school partner, that there is no reform without the previous involvement of the school partners. To this end, we have established in the Federal Government's work programme that, for example, we anchor student parliaments into student representation laws, and we also have the idea of setting up a school partner advisory board in the Federal Ministry. These would be useful tools to ensure that students, parents and teachers will be involved in the discussions from the outset. The beautiful details on the edge: Firstly, it is already in the government's work programme, secondly, there are unanimous requests from the Youth Councils and, most importantly, it would cost no cents. – In this sense, Mrs Minister: I'm counting on you!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e7838	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Rosenkranz.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e7859	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Yes, I would have to make a small contribution to the ÖBB on the occasion of yesterday evening, on the subject of how it is at the main railway station Salzburg, but that will be another debate. Yes, Mr Rosenkranz is now on the floor, Mr Habbassi. Yeah, there'll be a request from me. First of all, however, there is a completely different request from me, namely the following: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is a concrete savings option. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It's about €3 million, as the RTR was reported, for 2013 alone. This is money that should arrive in the classroom better than on printed paper, or, as you have already said, that you have to call a train “New Middle School”. You can already see: If you have to apply for something particularly offensive, so that it seems to be doing something, then perhaps the content should not be as much as a hundred percent good. There are various studies on this, such as those of the Court of Auditors. But let's stick to what's happened in the last few days. This is also the question of federalism. Mrs Grossmann meant that provincialism was not in demand in the education system. In any case, one thing cannot be correct, namely that federalism is equated with provincialism. There's already an important difference for me. In any case, federalism is a fundamental celebration of our federal constitution in Austria. You just have to be careful that this federalism is being lived well and correctly. That's the difference! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] He can't be meant with provincialism. That we have nine different school type systems in Austria, nine different education standards, nine different teacher service rights, nine different pay schemes, which will certainly never be able to live, Austria is clearly too small, and it would be pointless. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, we can talk about administrative measures. However, I was somewhat surprised by one thing; perhaps the Minister of State can also talk to your party colleague, Mr. Niessl, who means that if this were all in national sovereignty, the teacher administration, then one would save 1,500 officials' jobs, by saving the district and state school councils. I can remember so darkly that in the summer of 2013 a National Council meeting took place in which the District School Councils had already been abolished and the countries in the implementing laws were obliged to do so until 1. August 2014, this is relatively soon to also implement. Perhaps you could remind Mr Niessl of the fact that the demand he raised has already been partially implemented. And now the number 1 500: We are puzzled where they are to come from, because only at the District School Councils are these measures saving 20 percent of the 130 planning posts. So there are 130 planning posts at the district school councils and about 1,500 officials are to be saved. It can already be seen that the education system in Austria, especially the basic accounting methods, has arrived a little. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But what happened in socialist education? – There was in itself the objection, or the announcement or the message of courage to the angry citizens, that the SPÖ is the educational party. Well, there is something that corresponds to the party's color, namely the red thread that has been going on in education policy since 2006. There is hardly a measure in which teachers, parents and, above all, students did not go on the street and demonstrated: In spring 2009 it started with the teacher bashing, then Matura Neu and the chaos there, Court Reports, BIFIE, New Middle School and State Teacher Administration. Interesting in this: Mr. Haider, Member of the State School Council in Salzburg for the Greens, the former Managing Director of BIFIE and Education Scientists, says: In the New Secondary School in Regular Schools, the children will be “cannies ” if there is no evaluation before. – That was an original quote from an educational expert. Now is just the question: What double mill is that? Is Mr. Haider not now an educational expert and is wrong if he takes the term “supply rabbit” into his mouth? Or is he an educational expert because he was at BIFIE? Or is BIFIE not good? You have to choose one of these options now. He has no idea. But what did he do at BIFIE? Or the BIFIE is an unfit instrument. You don't come out of this double mill. But we can go on. Service Law New, Training New – everything that has been “new” since 2006 in the field of education has actually become a single disaster and has not brought Austria forward. Mr El Habbassi said: It's crazy! Since 2007 we have 25 percent more in education, but nothing comes out! Who was in the government in 2007, colleague El Habbassi? – You’re a young person, you’ve also stressed that you still want to achieve a lot. Ask who was represented here next to the SPÖ in the Federal Government and who obviously used the money badly! We had a popular educational desire. Can anyone remember that we had such a thing in Parliament? – It was very large and very important and directly democratic, and there have been motions for resolutions and I know what else, and ultimately the relevant decisions have been taken. There, the New Secondary School with team teaching, main objects and high-level school students were very important. And now, all at once, we don't need to. The first draft regulation of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs states that we can give up all of this. Then everything is rolled back and taken back. And what's now? – AK President Kaske, who should also have something to do with social democracy, says: That's terrible. The whole day school is being betrayed here. He would rather be in favour of locking up small and small schools. This was, by the way, also an approach which the Federal Minister had at the very beginning. She said: That's where the countries are supposed to be pretty creative. They're supposed to figure out how to get the micro- and micro-schools. – That’s not an approach! I'll keep it with the following quote: It's not supposed to make people's students commuting. In any case, it must be ensured in Austria that short legs only have to take short distances to the school. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Rädler: Quote by Helm!]] What's left on the track? – Elementary pedagogy, special pedagogy, schools in free movement. When have these problems been addressed or solved? – Not at all, it is a chaos that the SPÖ is doing in the field of education. Unfortunately, it is true that the SPÖ is actually an educational party, but in a negative sense. And that is why I am not going to make the following request today: Motion for a resolution by Dr Rosenkranz and other Members on the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister for Education and Women The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Minister for Education and Women is hereby approved. 74 para. 1 B-VG by express resolution of the National Council failure to trust.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e7943	The amendments tabled by Mr Rosenkranz are sufficiently supported and are therefore under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e8065	Next speaker: Mrs. Klubobfrau Dr. Nachbaur. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e8088	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Colleagues in the House! Dear taxpayers! The Austrian state is taking as much as never before. We have one of the highest tax rates worldwide. The working people, despite higher wages, remain almost nothing left in the pocket of money. There's nothing to feel about real wage increases. [[Abg. Rädler: This is the Social Party!]] The state takes and takes. And now it is still to be feared that he is still serving in the future of the young people in our country, in the education system. Her current suggested rethinking would be extremely desirable and should be evaluated positively. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] But this does not solve the basic problem of debt making. [[Abg. Raedler: Workers' Party Beater!]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Money also works!]] The debt service will soon need more money than is spent on education. They will soon spend more money on interest payments than on the formation of our young people. And even with this sum, it seems that it is now necessary to shorten it, because this government cannot operate. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I allow myself to quote Frank Stronach at this point. Everyone has heard it often enough: Anyone who leads a household knows he can't spend more than take, otherwise the family has no money to live. Every trader knows he can't spend more than take, otherwise the company has to go bankrupt. Everyone knows that, only this government obviously does not. Debt making must finally stop. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I say yes, of course, needs to be saved – unfortunately! – because we have a government that has been producing a deficit since the 1970s, because we have a government that has been spending more and more money since the 1970s, because we have a government that cannot operate. This government has no revenue problem, it has an expenditure problem. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We do not want to be responsible for the fact that the next generations have nothing but a huge debt mountain. Of course we are for saving, also in the field of education. But my appeal to the government: Save You are not with the children, not with the teachers and not in the schools, but at last save where your own people are affected, where you have sat with countless national and district school councils your people, where in the proporation system you are giving the posts to administrators! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Create You're not even more administrators! bureaucracy is still leading to more bureaucracy. Since when has management improved the quality of teaching? Ask the teachers themselves how much they need to manage! You'll get hundreds of good suggestions in the instant. Trust the teachers and also the school directors more! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Once again to Frank Stronach, for he was the first to say this, and everyone heard it a hundred times: It is completely incomprehensible to him that the school director cannot choose his own teachers. He's right! And I am particularly pleased that there are signs of school autonomy on the part of the ÖVP. Very pleasant! [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. El Habbassi.]] And something else: Finally, you'll get the curriculum out of the way! It would be better if the children learned some basic skills and developed substances themselves creatively. In the Anglo-Saxon area, this works well and has good results. With my friends in Canada, for example, I have seen that children who are 16 learn in school how to write a business plan. With us, they learn how to write an application letter. That's a difference, a rethinking. Our youth needs a perspective. This requires education, training, strengthening the weak, and particularly the promotion of the elites. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Conclusion: Save Finally, in the administration of your own people and be generous to the children! The future of the country depends on the children and not on the administrators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e8201	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Meinl-Risinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e8222	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Yeah, it's a strange mood here in the house today. I just talked to Matthias Strolz. You kind of have the feeling, it's a little bit in the direction that maybe it's not about anything today. And that's actually annoying and makes me angry when I'm quite honest. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] [[Abg. Tamandl: The Glavischnig isn't even there!]] I am very happy and grateful that the Greens have called for this special meeting today. I realize that you can argue well and ask: Why is there this excitement now? These savings measures, which are taken here wherever they are made, are so small in comparison to the €8 billion budget, and in total everything remains the same and good. The problem is that today we have heard full-fledged projects again. We have heard sentences, such as: We'll start thinking about it! There is also the proposal that I naturally welcome, which is a lot of talk about examining things and looking at things. And while we are discussing here again what we should do and what we should not think about, we lose generations of generations of students who have actually experienced the same discussions for decades, not only in this house, but also in the media, and nothing actually happens. We have already heard of the lawn mower principle of savings today. The principle of lawn mower means that I move within the existing structures and there and there a little bit away. This is devastating, however, if at the same time we are talking about a structural zero deficit. We don't need an educational snipe, but we need new cutting sheets. We need them urgently. We need these quickly and not only in ten years, when we have finally begun to think about what we can do. Some studies have been addressed, including from the government. The IHS study addressed by the Court of Auditors, the OECD expenditure, how high it is in international comparison. I think Mrs. Federal Minister, you know those. That is also why we will not go along with the motion for a resolution today. We have the feeling that you know that there is something to do, and you actually know what to do in the field of education, namely, of course, federal competence and, of course, also the autonomy of schools, alone – and that is really the problem – I lack the belief that this is going to be done and that you can and want to take steps forward here in this legislative period. Nevertheless, we will support everything here. We will start this education dialogue and therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] You see, there are already enough themes here. We must not start thinking about it, but we must finally act. I would like to take up two more things that have happened in the debate today. First: The Federal Chancellor has rightly said that if you take a lot of money into your hands – we do so in the international comparison in the field of education – then you have to look at the effect of what you can achieve with this money. I think that's right and important. The woman family minister was here a short time today. I would like to report from the Court of Auditors which took place this morning. We have discussed an absolutely destructive report from the Court of Auditors. There is also a plenary session next week. It is about the effective orientation of the development of child care. Yes, there has been a start-up funding here, and thank God there will be another one. We welcome that. But this federal government or the last federal government has completely failed to look at and look at the impact orientation here, especially what has been accomplished in terms of quality with this much money – a lot of money has been taken in hand. So please, don't just put these words in your mouth here, don't give any Sunday speeches here, but pay attention to this effect orientation, especially in the field of education! [[I should like to congratulate the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.]] A second point, which I would like to address, is that we have already discussed, but it seems to me to be extremely important in today's context – to your rejection of the next PISA test, Mrs Federal Minister. This is really a devastating sign, and you know that too, because – this is also the chairman of the Initiative BILDING GRENZENLOS, Heidi Schrodt, in the end entitled in a guest comment – “without PISA correlation the compass is missing.” Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators out there! I feel that we urgently need this compass in Austrian education policy because it is the only guarantee of the necessary pressure that it seems necessary to bring these reforms into being. That is why I would ask you to refrain from suspending these tests, and that is why I make a second request: Motion for a resolution by Mr Strolz, Mr Magn. Meil-Reisinger, colleagues and colleagues on facilitating the implementation of the 2015 PISA study The National Council wants to decide: The Federal Minister for Education and Women is invited to collect alternative offers for the BIFIE as soon as possible in order to carry out the PISA study in 2015 and subsequently select an appropriate institute so that Austria or at least individual federal states can start field testing by autumn 2014 taking into account the delay granted by the OECD and participate in the PISA study with a focus on natural sciences in 2015. Please stop sniffing! Let's create a new cutting bow! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e8324	The motions for resolutions tabled by Mrs Meinl-Reisinger are sufficiently supported and are therefore under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e8486	Next speaker: Mr Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e8507	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! First of all, I would like to thank all those who have prevented hundreds of thousands of citizens from using the savings package as it was planned. This was really a big protest that went off in the circles of friends, families, in schools, at the workplace, on Facebook, on Twitter and so on. There was a lot going on. I really want to say a warm thank you. I would also like to thank the organizations, the student union, the AKS, the parental uprising initiative, which in recent weeks has really been very strong for the students. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But I would also like to thank you, Mrs Minister, for hearing the protest because it has at least slowed down this package of savings. This is not a daily matter in politics. I really respect that one. The only problem is that the savings plans, of course, as we have heard in many speeches, are not at all from the table. On the contrary, they're still there. Today we have heard other savings proposals, for example at day-to-day schools. [[Federal Minister Heinisch-Hosek: A savings proposal!]] – A proposal for savings, but a big one. It seems to me that the government doesn't really understand what makes us boy so angry. I just want to try to explain this a little. When I came to school and then went to college, my parents and my teachers always told me: Training, that's the most important thing there are! Education has never been more important than today, for a few reasons. First: The labour markets have changed and you have to be a little more flexible as a boy. Secondly, Education is really the most important resource of the Austrian economy. Thirdly, We need good education in a modern democracy, simply because we want to have powerful, self-determined and free citizens. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] So education is really an extremely important thing. I have already understood this as a child in school and as a student at university – and also that this is important to me and to my whole generation. By the way, politics says that all the time. For example, I have counted the word “education” in the ÖVP election program of the last election. It occurs 69 times on about 40 pages. For example: “To talk about education means to talk about the future.” For example, “the largest school building offensive in the second Republic ” is announced. In the last SPÖ selection program, the word “education” appears on about 90 pages more than 100 times. For example, according to: We will invest more in education and, for example, want to improve teacher training and want more equal opportunities. In these two programmes – you from SPÖ and ÖVP are now in a coalition – there are really many very, very good points that I would immediately sign. In summary, this means: Education is the most important thing for our future! and you promised to invest in schools and colleges before choosing. And then the hypo got in between and was killed for a few corrupt gullibles or because of a lot more unfortunately. And the first area from which the government then takes the money for it is the schools and the universities. The first thing that happens is that it is announced that the maximum number of students is increased, that teachers are being reduced, that school psychologists and psychologists are being reduced, that the universities are even further shortened. [[Interference of Federal Minister Heinisch-Hosek.]] These were the first stories to be announced. Now it is announced that all day schools will be reduced. Ladies and gentlemen! We boys just feel fooled in this regard. That's the problem right now! And that's why we, a lot of boys in this house, have set up an initiative where every party of young people – I'm very proud that we've managed to get young from every party – against this educational saving package. We simply dream that sometime Austria has the best schools and the best education in Europe. We simply want to dream of a positive future and not hear all the time about the hypo, banks and crises. [[Congratulation with greens and NEOS.]] There are a lot of points where the education system can be very meaningfully saved. Some of them have already been mentioned across all parties today, where something can be reformed. And our opinion, the opinion of the Greens, is that the saved money should still remain in the education system. Education is so incredibly important that this money should remain in the field of education, even if reforms are taking place, even if the school system becomes more efficient. We really need that. Every euro in the education system is worth gold. That is why I ask you, honourable Members, to vote. You're doing exactly as you promised before the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e8574	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e8595	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! In my view, today's special session is a very important contribution to making some clarifications that are particularly important in the context of the debate over the last few days. The first important clarification: There should be no savings in education at the expense of quality. It was and is quite undisputed here that it was a courageous step by the competent minister to take back the measures she originally planned and start a very wide-ranging discussion process in order to be able to put in place the right measures. The second important clarification that has been made today – I am not sure if all of you want to see it this way – is: The whole day school will continue to be extended, without a reduction in resources. I heard it again before: There is a reduction in the funding for the expansion of the whole day school. That's not true! Also from this point of view again the confession to the special value and the special importance of the whole day school. I can also take this debate, this excitement, which is partly an artificial one, a little positive. As someone who has been involved in educational debates in recent years, I can say: A few years ago, we still had to advertise and argue that it has a special educational value to expand the school of the whole day, today we are obviously a step further, because if – I say this now the misunderstanding arises that there should be a brake, which is not the case, there is excitement, and that also has something positive in itself. On the field of science and research, because there has also been a little black painting on the savings to which it will come: In the urgent question, you have quoted many things from the government programme, which are particularly important to us, such as improving care conditions, measures against social selection, improving study funding, improving the situation of young scientists. What happened to me: You have excluded the field of technical universities in the green request, but I also think this is very important. All these are important measures. It is a government programme for the next five years, and we are in the middle of the first year. That means we still have A lot more than that. We are now starting to implement the measures – under difficult budgetary conditions, yet step by step. The situation of basic research could clearly be clarified between the representatives of the institutions, the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Science, and it is not expected that there will be deterioration. It is also true of the situation of universities that the current service agreements apply until 2015. The situation is secure. The improvement of capacity, the improvement of care conditions at universities has come to the government programme at our request, which is particularly important to us. We will ensure that this will be pushed forward accordingly over the next five years. It is also a matter of improving the funding of studies, which, in our view, is a very, very important concern. In this respect, I am particularly pleased that we will take the first important measures under the Budgetary Support Act, with the two government parties agreeing that these are the first steps and that further steps will be taken here in the next few years. There will be an improvement for students with children, the income limit will be increased, which is very important because more and more students are working and have to work, and much more. That is to say, education policy remains a very, very crucial focus of this federal government – under the existing framework conditions! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e8672	The next item is the speech by Mr Ing. Hofinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e8693	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Mr Schmid, I already have to correct your remarks: It is not the first thing to be saved in education. Each department shall contribute to the consolidation of our budget. In principle, investment in education is investment in the future, in which we all agree; we have heard this more often today. But the spirits are divorcing when it comes to the level of educational expenditure and its effective distribution. While managers want to create a flexible budget, others constantly demand one or the other and do not assume any responsibility. Budget consolidation means that we need to drive through the cost drivers and look for savings potential. The volume of savings has been agreed within the government, and both Minister of Education Heinisch Hosek and Chancellor Faymann have agreed to this. Of course, implementation is the responsibility of the head of the department. However, it can be said that it is generally not so bad about educational expenditure in Austria. Let's look at the numbers! – Between 2007 and 2013, we had an increase of 18 percent, with schools even by 24 percent, although the number of students decreased by 5 percent. And as far as the student/teacher relationship is concerned, we are under the control of what the OECD also confirms to us. That is, education is well worth us. We must save, but not at the expense of the quality of training, and this should remain the case in the future. For the distribution of expenditure or for possible cost savings: We just have to make sure that the money actually arrives in schools. This is the problem we have, and this is what we need to face. It can't be that from 4 € only 2 € arrive in the schools. We are responsible to the one million pupils and their parents and have to solve this problem. We have to do that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The division of competence in the home school system – which the OECD also tells us – is also essential to question. Mrs Minister, yesterday's agreement between your ministry and the countries is a real step, and there must be a wide-ranging debate on this. Madam Minister, as mayor, I would also like to say to you: They talked about the closure of small schools earlier, but that's where you have to be very careful. Of course, there are micro-schools, one-class micro-schools, since one can already talk about closure, but I am generally opposed to the closure of elementary schools, because that would only result in people getting away from these areas and not coming back. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Exactly! Right!]] Each Minister is required to save in his/her field without losing quality. Therefore, it is necessary to proceed with calculation and with feeling. Nevertheless, the following shall apply: Rehabilitation of competence, reforestation of double conductivity, demonstration of further savings are necessary. And, of course, I also think it makes sense to discuss the proposal of our head of state Dr. Josef Pühringer to carry out a reform of the school administration. The head of state in Burgenland, Niessl, also confirmed this with the formation of educational directorates. These are things that we really need to discuss so that it can be saved in the administration and the money actually comes from the students. I would like to say something about this meeting today: First: You are right, the hypo disaster is a disaster – and this clearly bears a blue manuscript! Secondly, In connection with the claim of the Greens that there would be an educational barrage, one can only speak of green polemics. And thirdly, If at all, then the hypo disaster only has something to do with educational debt, as one can say that some parties were unfortunately missing the necessary knowledge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e8742	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr Karlsböck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e8763	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Values listeners and listeners at home! As chairman of the Committee on Science and Science and as spokesperson of my party, I would now also like to take this discussion on the occasion of bringing the completely unacceptable and non-comprehensible cuts in our education system here to the fore and to question some sort of. Today, we are all talking about the scandal of saving young people in education. We are talking about the fact that education for young people is the key to good living opportunities and indispensable for long-term positive development in our country. A previous speaker said that education policy remains the focus of this federal government. Ladies and gentlemen, I now see on the government bank the Federal Chancellor and Federal Minister of the SPÖ side, but none of the ÖVP. I am pained by the fact that no one on the part of the People's Party is responsible for the fact that no one from the ÖVP is present on such an important issue today, because the questions raised here concern not only the first and the second pillar, but also the third pillar. Education also means university education and higher education. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why I would like to point out that it is a sign that the Minister for Science and Economics is not present today. And that's what we're back at the point: From the very beginning, I have said that science and education are given far too little importance from symbolism, but also in actual implementation. Ladies and gentlemen! We liberals have nothing against meaningful savings, on the contrary: We would have preferred to be a single Ministry of Education, in which the summary of Agendas science, research and education would have led to a competence-adjusted synergy effect, but we are very likely to be against the waste of tax money at the expense of education elsewhere. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] We are still talking about the hypo today, and when we talk about the hypo, we also need to talk about the fact that there is obviously enough money in this context. If a government commission is to be used or has already been used to pay daily rates per expert of €4,000, that is, I think, a scandal when we save on the other side of education. In addition, I find it very strange that the Minister of Finance and Vice-Chancellor has established expensive parallel structures in his ministry, which no human needs. We do not need two State Secretarys if we have a Minister and if there is no money in the back and in the front. We liberals know that there are constraints on savings, but the cuts in the education sector, which are currently being carried out on the ground, are equivalent to a self-destructive educational policy, an destruction of the future of our youth. If we do not want to put the future of our youth at risk, we need to shift the existing resources towards education, research and teaching in order to upgrade the scientific location of Austria. There are many excellent scientists and researchers in our country, but because of the bad conditions, they are looking for space and moving abroad; that is what we call Braindrain. Without the appropriate means, there is no planning certainty, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, the top goal must be to provide universities with a longer-term planning horizon and also to open it up, for example through performance agreements, which are currently only completed for three years. [[Abg. Kogler: That's it!]] We think five years would be the better way. Above all, however, the high-school sector, which has become a real success path in Austria, must not continue to be neglected. We are missing a high-school development and financing plan, which provides for the expansion of the high-school courses to at least 50 000 and the increase in funding rates for high-school courses by at least 12 percent. Ladies and gentlemen! We liberals do not shut down the economic needs and know that there will never be a romantically enlightened student life, as it once was. That belongs to the past. We also do not dispute the importance of applied research. How else could we help the vocational colleges who, with their practice and economic orientation, make an indispensable contribution to training in the tertiary sector? But we are missing clear concepts to increase the quality of education, which is more than training. All confessions to their importance remain empty words when science is neglected in the humboldt sense, if it is no longer possible to go into the breadth and to counteract the often accused loss of theme sovereignty. We liberals are a party that advocates self-determination, independent and free decision-making, and in principle we reject pressure, where it is possible, in any case, also in research and teaching. Research-led teaching requires independence. We still have the Article 17 of the Basic Law of 1887, which is still part of our federal constitution, and there it is not in vain: “Science and its teaching are free.” If we take education seriously, we must put it on a solid foundation, free from economic constraints, such as the need to constantly recruit third-party funds. The capacity-oriented university funding decided by the Federal Government and related to students is at least the wrong way. It does not only mean the end of free access to higher education, it has unfortunately failed before it becomes effective. Real study ground financing without access restrictions, even in the so urgently necessary so-called MINT subjects – mathematics, computer science, natural science and technology, including physics – would be urgently needed. We also see when studying medicine, where this leads when the number of places is limited. The Numerus-claus refugees take away places from our students. We say something needs to be done about it. We can also do something, the country of origin principle, which is possible in social policy, must also be possible in science policy. Coming to the end: As has been said, saving is correct and important, but not planless and in the wrong place. I deeply regret that research and Teaching is treated in such a stepmotherly way. In order to give higher education a top priority in international competition, it is necessary to invest in the range of studies and in the quality of teaching – an investment that is worthwhile, because progress and innovation in a country is always based on research, development and solid education. When we take this into account, it may be possible for Austrian researchers to receive Nobel Prizes. Unfortunately, with the current educational programme, we only reach the opposite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e8814	The next item is Mr Ertlschweiger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e8835	Dear ladies and gentlemen at the gallery! Ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the picture screens! Mr. Federal Chancellor! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria slides backwards year after year in the innovation ranking of the EU Commission. In the meantime, we are now only at 10th place in the innovation power of the EU Member States, and the government is not in any better position than to hire the savings fund in the field of education. It is a milk girl's bill that excellent training for our children and young people can lead to good results in research and development. Innovation is and remains the engine of every economy. Therefore, cuts in education, whether in the school sector or in the university sector, cannot be a serious or serious response from the policy to a home-made budget and debt abuse. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! With the future of our youth you don't stop budget holes! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Now, in my opinion, the government should set priorities and, instead of saving, invest more money in the training of our children, our young people, in the apprentices, in the students, because with their knowledge and know-how, they shape the future of our country tomorrow. It is they who, with their knowledge and skills, guarantee that Austria's economic location remains competitive for the longer term. In my opinion, it is therefore urgently necessary to put the lever in compulsory schools. We have heard more often today what problems we have in this area in terms of quality. Unfortunately, it is a fact that more and more compulsory school leavers are incapable of a craftsmanship or for a secondary school. Why, do you think, are you looking for a professional today, regardless of whether this is a installer or a tilery, so much money to go? That is the reality, ladies and gentlemen, that is a fact: There are less and less capable young people who want to learn this profession, on the one hand, and on the other hand have the basic requirements, such as reliability, punctuality, communication et cetera, because many have simply not acquired this attitude in primary school. Many of these children and young people – which is unfortunately also a fact – do not even get a permanent job in the auxiliary sector. According to a study conducted by the Kepler University of Linz, about 78 000 people between 16 and 18 years of age are currently affected in Austria – we have heard about it today. 78,000 young people, who are already in their early years, have every prospect of “normal” working life – under quotation marks. The consequences are disastrous for Austria. Already, as already mentioned, very many industries find hardly any more skilled apprentices, and in the next few years there will even be a six-digit number of skilled workers in Austria. It is not necessary to be a prophet to understand that this situation is a massive threat to the economic location of Austria in the longer term. Please go out into real life and talk to the representatives of the economy, from the car workshop to producers of high-tech products. Most of these economic operators, these entrepreneurs will complain to you about the lack of training and the willingness to train young people. That is a fact, and you should look into it, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the Stronach team, as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] Since I always hear of saving potential and saving, saving: Of course we have to save, quite clearly! But please, in Austria there is so much savings potential, From the administration and the overarching bureaucracy to pension havens such as those in the National Bank – it is simply incomprehensible to me how to get 30 000 € and more per month of pension; in which country do we live, please? – not to mention corruption, the economy of friends. I believe that it is simply and simply negligent to use the spasm to train our children is an outrage of the care required. On the contrary: Training our children must have the highest priority for us in the future. Adolf Haslinger, former rector of the University of Salzburg, has already noted: “Whoever saves on youth will be impoverished in the future.” That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e8941	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ertlschweiger is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e9003	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e9024	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! As often as we are talking about austerity measures, we are of course looking at the Court of Auditors' proposals in the first line. And there you have to ask yourself, if the Federal Government does not occasionally feel that these proposals have been introduced. They should all have been at the meeting of the Court of Auditors on education recently. At this meeting, the President of the Court of Auditors drew a very dark picture of the various issues of the opposition, of how this will develop in the future and whether the necessary financial resources will be available. But the strain on the whole thing was your reaction, Mrs. Minister. They were not particularly happy about this picture. I understand, too, I wouldn't have been happy either. But that, instead of including these proposals, you were rather subject to party-political ideas, that really could not understand the opposition. This is all because the President has made logical and economically meaningful proposals, where one could consistently save and how this Federal Government could deal with the necessary reforms. The question already arises whether the role of the Court of Auditors in Austrian democracy is understood correctly. In principle, it is not in favour of consistently finding and celebrating the proposals of the Federal Government, but is part of the control of a functioning democracy and, fortunately, has the resources to make meaningful proposals where there is savings potential. Mrs Bundesminister, use the possibilities open to you by the Court of Auditors to implement the proposed measures! Only the €13 million that could be saved annually by deducting the administrative activities from the teachers and setting up their own administrative staff. It's very simple, you could do that right away. Some of the statements that have already been made today indicate that these proposals will also be implemented. I'm, however, excited to see if it really happens. As far as the distribution of competence is concerned, my colleague Beate Meinl-Reisinger made it quite clear that all teachers belong to the Federation. I would also like to thank you explicitly, Mrs Federal Minister, for making it clear that it makes no sense to take a change. One point that is also very important to me in terms of savings potential – and that was also the subject of the Committee on the Board of Auditors – is the awarding practice in the Ministry of Education. This has happened before your time, you can't personally blame you, but there has obviously been a lot in the arse over the past few years. In some cases, award procedures were carried out free of charge, without complying with the Federal Procurement Act. I wonder what we have such a law for when it is basically overlooked and simply ignored. A ministry should, in principle, adhere to such laws that we give ourselves, but it is particularly exciting against the background of the contract law, because this is not only about the transparent implementation of this contract, but also about economics. And if such public procurement is carried out properly, there are also corresponding savings potential there. In the urgent question of the Greens there is also much talk of science and research. The problem of basic research has already been addressed and is hopefully also known to you. Mrs Kuntzl has previously meant that the savings will not be so large. – This does not mean much if the approval rates at the FWF are already so low that we gradually have to reject more and more young researchers. They have some very great ideas, but it's just the money not there to finance it, and now it looks like these funds are still being cut. But even if they're not shortened, there's already too little there. There you can only say: Good night, research and science location Austria, and above all, Good night business location! The problem is that these young scientists will all emigrate. They're already doing that. If you have read the newspapers in the last few weeks – Mr. Karlsböck has already mentioned it – you know that we are heading for an inconceivable brain drain. Wherever we're under the control, because we're already subject to this brain drain quite massively. We currently have a negative migration balance of 5 000 to 10 000 Austrians per year. I am personally glad that the Austrians are so worldly and also emigrate, but there are enormously many highly qualified people who leave our country and we do not know how to compensate for this. One possibility would, of course, be to bring foreign young researchers to Austria. But we are also extremely bad, because of course there are no funds available for these projects to finance research projects. In addition, especially for third-country nationals – Matthias Strolz has mentioned this before – the regulations of the Red-White-Rot-Card. These are not only completely impracticable and illogical, but also economically complete humbug. We finance people who come to Austria – that's very nice that they come here – and after that, when they finish their studies, we say: Thank you very much for studying here, but please go home again, because this is not about the red and white red card! Also mentioned was the online petition to increase the resources for science and research. I wonder how often the science community is supposed to scream until it is finally heard. On the one hand, we have no commitment to the research rate of 3.76 percent in the government programme, and yesterday we heard from the Research Committee that this is not so bad and the R&D quota in Ös- It is a great thing to be able to compare it with other countries. That can be, but if we look at our own FTI strategy and notice that we will never get where we want to go by 2020, I don't understand why we look at other countries and say that everything fits anyway. Of course, a key factor in the current budget creation – we have already heard that – is the problem with the hypo. The problem is that we don't let those who have benefited from it, but others. It is not the creditors who have to pay, but it is the taxpayers who have to get back in. This is a massive burden on the budget. We put the entire hypo in addition to the debt or debt backpack on it, which the young and the next generations already have to carry. In addition, we also invest far too little in those areas where the opportunities and life paths of young people are created, namely at schools and universities. I have to tell you: Generational justice simply looks different. What we're doing here can only be summarized with a single word, and the Greens have already done this in their urgents: It's a robbery of the future! Finally, as I have referred to the Court of Auditors' proposals, I would like to make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e9115	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Scherak is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e9414	Next speaker: Mrs Kucharovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e9435	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators here in the house, via live stream or in front of the TV devices! I am, you know, the SPÖ's children's and youth spokesperson and, of course, was not pleased that an ÖVP Finance Minister did not exclude the education of savings targets either. But I can say here, our minister Gabi Heinisch-Hosek, is now trying to get the best out, not to save where it would meet the young people most, in the classes, but in other areas. I also hope to receive support from all the federal states that have made the first inconceivable cry in the last week, but have not made any constructive contribution – last week. I am very pleased that yesterday there was a first important discussion and also a partial success that was not at the expense of children and young people. This is very important for us in the SPÖ. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs Klubobfrau Glawischnig and also Julian Schmid have mentioned in their statements what we also stand for. We have tabled a motion for a resolution today, and that is in no way contrary to what you said, Julian, quite the contrary. I would also like to stress this, because it is presented a little bit as if there were a battle of ideas that had nothing to do with each other and which also shows inconceivable differences here. But what I don't understand is – and here I also want to put the question in the room: What to understand You're under education policy? What to understand You're under school? – this hack, which is taking place here, to talk down ideas, to degradate people, to degradate colleagues solely because of another group. That's really not a very positive picture we're giving here. I would also like to say that at this point. What do I expect from school, what do the SPÖ expect from school? – School, and thus the place of education and education, should really be a room, a place where students feel comfortable. Matthias Strolz has formulated a little pathetic: They're supposed to flower cherry flowers. I can't fully share this, although I love flowers, but I find this comparison very drawn to the hair. But students should feel comfortable. They should also be allowed to make mistakes there, to be encouraged and demanded. They should also be able to experience solidarity, acquire social skills, experience creativity, get to know sports and much more. And it's supposed to be everywhere in Austria. This is why I am quite clear about the transition of teachers at this point. It doesn't matter if I'm home in Eisenstadt or Bregenz, I have to enjoy a school, whether I'm a girl or a boy, have a migration background or not, whether my parents have a thick or a thin wallet to really experience and enjoy school. In this direction we work in the SPÖ. Our SPÖ ministers, both Claudia Schmied and Gabi Heinisch-Hosek, have already put some pillars here. And we want to go on: New secondary school – quite, very important –, expansion all day school, in order to be able to offer more to both children and parents, no question. And we want to go to the SPÖ, that's not a secret, obviously a common school. Finally, I would like to make one more point in this regard. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe it is for many citizens, no matter what age, quite incomprehensible, to discuss austerity policy – and I am not talking about efficient austerity policy, but in principle – and not to revive the field of millionaire tax. I would also like to appeal to you, Asdin, as my direct colleague in this area, to make a little sense in your group in this direction too. No one can understand that in the field of education policy and in other areas, even if not directly saved – for we have heard that the budget remains the same – there is a debate on savings, but there is no open debate on the taxation of millionaires. We in the SPÖ are fighting for it to come sometime to make it fairer, and we are fighting for the best education for children and young people, against class savings, for more efficient administration at the federal and national level. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e9492	Next speaker: Mrs Himmelbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e9514	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ministers! Dear colleagues, viewers on the galleries and also in front of TV screens! At the beginning, I can say something binding that has emerged from today's discussion: Education is an issue that is important to all of us here in the House, which is also a matter of heart to all of us here. No other subject is so important to us because good education for all of us is the best prerequisite for the future career path, but it is also the best condition when it comes to a happy life. Education opens up opportunities and presents us with free decisions. However, nowhere else do I think there are as many serious differences in the approaches as we want to live our education, which education system we want. The proposal or the incentive of the colleague Kucharovich was perhaps also interesting, perhaps we just talk to each other and actually have the same basic idea. According to my understanding, the school is that place – without even removing the parents from duty – to prepare us for life, to acquire knowledge and to provide this space, where talents and skills are discovered and also promoted. Our teachers are doing great work. They are often still working as consultants, as friends to talk, God often also as a family replacement. Teachers are already offering additional services today, such as promotion courses, training courses, free-of-charge goods held in their own leisure time, because they can no longer be covered by the value units. But this too is a heart concern for teachers. In addition to the personal use of teachers, the framework conditions are also an important prerequisite in order to avoid this commitment and the quality of teaching. It was, no question, a failure not to involve the school partners here – countries, teachers, parents and students. But it is to be welcomed that precisely these discussions are now being held and that the regulations have also been withdrawn last Friday. I'm allowed to go to an area here for a moment, because I went to a higher technical school, an HTL. The increase in group participants would have been a major problem in vocational education schools. This would have had a serious impact on practical education. The BHS Quintessence is the practical instruction to work independently on a workpiece, to be independent in the laboratory, to carry out research there or to also work in the teaching kitchen. There are only a limited number of machines there, on lathes, as was the case with me in the HTL, or at teaching places or workplaces in the forge. The same problem is in the laboratory, but also in the kitchen. We can be proud of our higher schools. Two thirds of the maturants choose this course of education and are in demand on the labour market. Since the issue of autonomy has also been discussed very often today: Especially the BHS are a concrete best-practice example in this area, where teachers' choice and financial sovereignty are directly in school. And that's welcome. As my colleague, Asdin El Habbassi, has already said, I am also familiar with the savings measures in all the departments, because it is also my personal responsibility to keep the scope open for future generations, to offer opportunities for action and not simply to hang them around the debt backpack. The educational budget has risen steadily in recent years: a total of €1.1 billion between 2007 and 2013. Investment per student has also increased from 5 000 to over 6 500 € in recent years. It is only important that this money also arrives directly with the students, directly in the classrooms, directly in the workshops, laboratories and also teaching kitchens. I can quote the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany because this was a very striking wording in his opinion today: It is not about having the most expensive school system, but the best school for children and young people. Our objective must therefore be to bring about sustainable, longer-term changes in addition to short-term savings.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e9575	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e9596	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like High house! The debate on savings, cost reductions et cetera is always a bit depressing because the content is lost. I believe that we should also consider the Wait a minute. When we save, we always save on the content, on the teaching content and on the things that are important to students, teachers and especially parents. Let's remember a few unpleasant numbers – they've been addressed a few times today; you'll get up the grays –: We have 265,000 children in Austria who need assistance and regularly receive it. We spend about € 110 million per year on this. 80 percent of parents regularly learn with their children. According to a study carried out by the Chamber of Labour, 80 million hours of free time, which is nevertheless scarcely measured in families, are spent for this purpose. I think that this is a very sad finding, especially since it also becomes socially critical. We know that 13 percent of the follow-up is done in financially weaker families, but 37 percent of the follow-up to service providers. This means that the system benefits from its bad content, through its poor performance service providers and disadvantages the socially and financially weaker families. This is actually another sad finding. Overall, these figures are, of course, a bad witness to the overall system, because a school, every school, should provide the teaching content enough, no extra time should be spent in the family association, and it should not, above all, cause any extra costs. There are small and important things that you can change immediately, ad hocly, which can also save lives. You will now ask: Why does he beat the bow to save life? Maybe because he's a doctor, maybe because he also knows that a bad resuscitation training, if held regularly, can save life. There are studies in Austria. We could save 200 to 300 lives through a proper rehabilitation training that should start with 10-year-olds. Therefore, the Stronach team submits the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This would be a simple, quickly feasible and good contribution that we could make here and now. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I would like to return once again to the nation of Austria, to the cultural nation of Austria, which we always conjure in our Sunday speeches, and here in the National Council we always use these terms. If we want to maintain Austria's cultural nation, we also need to do something for education, because education and culture are inherently connected. If we continue to slow down the education system, i.e. content, not only with one-stage In this context, it is important that the European Parliament should be able to take a decision on this matter. Then we have loud deafness and no longer able to control fellow citizens, basic accounting, reading and writing. And that's another sad finding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e9675	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Franz is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e9724	Next speaker: Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e9745	Mr President. Appreciate Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of my debate, I need to clarify the following: With regard to the almost 120,000 teachers we currently have in our schools, the impression is often given, especially in individual speeches and in public attendance. There is a great deal of chaotic work and so on. It is important to me to keep in mind what excellent work is being done in our schools – often under very difficult conditions, that may already be true, but the vast majority of educators do quite excellent work. What is currently being done in schools can be seen. I think that is an important point at the outset. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of ÖVP and Greens.]] I would also like to express my warmest thanks to the colleagues of the opposition. We must be grateful for this special session, which we can hold today on this important issue, because it will focus once again on what it really is all about. I often debate very critically with the ÖVP in this area, which can then be discussed with the colleagues of the ÖVP. There are different entrances, that may be already. On the one hand, there is the comical language of our colleague Strolz, who is always very pictorial here, but with a lot of optimism represents his wishes for a new school. On the other hand, there is Mr Walser, and I know that we have to go together in many areas, but he always sees it very negative and as hesitant as if we had just survived the last world war. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walser.]] So there's a lot in between. If we school, if we education, if we do not face the challenges offensively, then, I think, we have lost the game from the outset. It is true of the comparison drawn with the common school. Of course we want this, it would still be a way. However, this is currently not feasible with the coalition partner, so we must hide it. But many other areas include exactly what Mr Walser wanted. I'm thinking of his saying he made before: “Whoever wants to reap must sow before!” Of course, Mr Walser! What did we do in the last legislative period? – We have just started these reforms that – and you know that at least I mean, better than many others in here – are sustainable. School is sustainable. Things that we have now decided, in the last two, three years, that we have put on track will only be measurable in five or six years. So tanker education is moving slowly, just as the impact of ten years ago, when FPÖ was still in government and had numerous cuts to represent. At that time, it was real hourly cuts that we subsequently felt. The successes we have now started through our actions will only be measurable and visible in a few years. I am already looking forward to the PISA, PIRLS and other results – I may not be part of this House anymore, if we actually have the comparison with other countries, especially European countries. Therefore, it is extremely important that we do not lose sight of the whole thing despite this oppositional hack. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walser.]] Mr Walser, you know very well that in the last legislative period, we have dealt with three large blocks of topics.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e9815	This was not true of you, Mr Mayer, but of my fellow Members in the hall – with the request for a reduction in noise levels.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e9835	I hope that will not count on my speaking time, Mr President. The first theme block was the reduction of the maximum number of students – an essential step, an important milestone. [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: I listen!]] Then: the promotion of language and small groups. Furthermore, the New Secondary School – Movement in Secondary Level I. And the beginning of the reform of the upper level towards modular upper level. The figures speak for themselves: 1 billion € more in educational expenditure, thousands of additional posts for declining schooling. I think these are things that can be seen. The second area is the interface problem. We all know that the troublesome times are in the school of transition from kindergarten to folk school, from folk school to secondary school, that is, primary school or AHS, then from primary school or new middle school to secondary school or teaching, and then from matura to university. It is precisely this interface problem that we have addressed and have also developed appropriate solutions to this problem: School entry phase, education standards in the fourth and eighth school level, transition to the university, the new Matura. . So, important measures that are now being implemented step by step in schools, which is very central. And an important point is – we all know –: The decisive players in the school are the teachers. There too, we have introduced a new educational training course that can be seen internationally – and I know what I am saying – that is exemplary for other countries who want to take similar steps. It is true that the new educational education, as we have decided here and want to bring it on track, will actually be a milestone. Teachers are the decisive players, up to the new service law. It is therefore important, in addition to these measures, which will show their impact, to look at the last point, which is very important to me and which has already been discussed by many today, at the following: What do we have to do with this legislative period? This is, on the one hand, an early promotion, a crucial factor if we want no child to stay on the track as far as possible, so to encourage children as early as possible. The full-day education and care services are an important step if we are to ensure education justice. And, last but not least, this has been put at the heart of Mrs Minister and many others today, and I conclude, Mr President, from my point of view, that the greatest potential for savings and efficiency lies in the fact that the autonomous school, the new modern school, can implement various things on its own responsibility. [[President Head gives the bell sign]] We need more school autonomy. I believe that the path taken by the Minister is the right one. We should not, as the FPÖ has done and has proclaimed this day on the day of the Hickhack, make a request for distrust, but it would be good if we were all to strengthen the back of the new Minister of Education together instead of falling in the back. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e9880	Mr Steinbichler has been mentioned as the last speaker to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e9901	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated ministers! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Listeners to the TV sets! Much has already been said by the previous speakers on education, but one must be clear: It would be too narrow to send everything in the direction of Hypo Alpe-Adria as a causer. The basic structures are missing. I may perhaps quote the President of the Chamber of Economics Christoph Leitl, who yesterday pointed out clearly that the government is currently being ‘furthered’. I believe that there is simply a lack of the necessary structural measures, otherwise we are indebted and burdened by the future of our children and grandchildren. All areas of play are taken away, and then we do not need to discuss any more education policy, but then we need to discuss whether our descendants can afford the refund rates at all. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] What huge savings potential exists has been shown over the last two days. Mrs. Heinisch-Hosek has held talks with the national leaders, with the educational councils and without incisive measures, there have already been double-tracks. On the point, Mr Hofinger, who said that only €2 would arrive at school from €4, we know what huge savings potential there is. I myself worked for 15 years in the District School Council and saw that this was nothing else than building political positions of power, positioning and sending candidates for directors and directors on training, so that they could have enough points for the so-called objectiveing commission. I think that is exactly what is damaging education policy, and it is very essential that it goes back to education. I would like to thank all teachers for their excellent work at this point, not because I have read statistics, but because I have read newspaper reports, but because of practical experience. On the practical example of 13 locks I see what is going on. But I would also like to mention one: I think we should not only talk about teachers or kindergarten teachers, but also about the role of parents. Sometimes one has the feeling that the failure in one's own family is delegated and expects all the mistakes made earlier years to be repaired in the school. Ladies and gentlemen, it would be very important to bring in more reason and see this common responsibility: How'd it go before? Because the economic location Austria was addressed: It is also very important that we increase the appreciation again, not only the remuneration of manual work. It's a fact: A shift leader in a large industrial company today receives a starting wage of 1,700 € gross. There is something we must do – and there is appreciation, ladies and gentlemen. Otherwise, we're going to be like the school system: Whoever can afford it sends his children to a private school. It is the same with the workers. Where are the workers in this House who know what they are talking about? – It’s always easy to talk about problems you’re not affected about. In this sense, I can make the following request from the Stronach team: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e9986	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Steinbichler is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e10051	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. The remaining speaking time of the Greens is 4 minutes – please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e10072	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Women Ministers! The request for this special meeting was made by the Green Group at a time when measures are on the table, which is now thank God, are gone. In this respect, this is the best proof that you can enforce something as an opposition if you point out in good time that mistakes happen. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the Stronach team.]] This is certainly also a contribution to this, and this is also positive for the other opposition parties. I do not agree to acknowledge, Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, that you have actually withdrawn some of your proposals for measures. I do not want to mention that in all the criticism that we would still have to maintain elsewhere, that is worth noting. I also do not want to mention that, in reply to the urgent question by Mrs Klubobfrau Glavischnig, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany has drawn up a position here in which it was possible to deal seriously for the first time – alone we do not see any actions – with the countries in terms of education policy and, above all, with the school administration issues. This will still be crucial in this debate, because you have given the impression that it would have been precisely about it. At first, however, it has not at all been about it. First – and then our request to convene this special meeting – was the fact that, as was then called in the Jargon of the dispute, it should be saved in the classrooms. That's how you faced your own SPÖ people. And that has also been the right finding. It's gone once, thank God! Another question remains: that of the school administration. . We do not say when there are taboos, where one should now maintain the budget lines, that one cannot efficiently continue to search for potentials internally. Of course! It was indeed the Greens and many others, partly also from the SPÖ and also from the ÖVP – by the way, for example, Mr Josef Pröll – at the “Austrian talks” in 2009/2010, where we had at the federal level, up to the subcommittees of the Constitutional Committee, on the agenda, how we want to reorganise the school administration, where we create with a new system of education directorates and among them direct lines to the schools, which then have more autonomy. Unfortunately, much has happened since then. There is still enough to do at district level and also at national school council level. [[Abg. Rädler:... to Lower Austria!]] – Yes, except for Lower Austria! [[Congratulations and ironic hustle and bustle with the greens.]] That belongs made in a cast. I am entirely of your opinion, Federal Chancellor, that we should not put ourselves at the risk of establishing nine different systems, just because it seems opportune to the national leaders to exploit this very critical political situation in order to re-enact their powers in the field of education. With me personally – that's not the line of the group – you could talk about everything, and I'll soon be able to discuss it if the teachers were settled in the competence of the countries, I see only another problem, namely: If the old red and black propaganda doesn't change – if it's a green government participation, it could be different – then it's just the Eldorado of the national leaders, where party-political proporz is passed through, into all the senseless posts there, with the district school councils, with the national school councils, up to the director's orders and to the teachers' orders. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You've already called out hundreds of lens stories, little of them works. This is one of the fundamental evils of these things! That is why I am so skeptical about the countries. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] One last, namely: There's a mistrust. – Mrs Federal Minister, not that we would agree with the line of the FPÖ, but we will agree to this distrust, because you have corrected a mistake, but cannot give a credible impression – and that is what Mr Chancellor has called – that you will finally come to a broken green branch with the countries and that you will still be able to achieve it. That's what you've been playing.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e10142	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We are now entering a number of votes. We shall first come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. Grossmann, Jank, colleagues in terms of equal opportunities and effective education. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this sign to do so. - That's the majority. Accepted. (E 15.) We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Walser, ladies and gentlemen, on no budget cuts in the field of education. The vote has been called for here. As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. The ballots to be used are in the drawers of the Members' House and bear the name of the Deputies as well as the name "Yes" – these are the grey ballots – or "No" – which are the pink ones. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to vote in favour of the 'yes' vote, those who vote against, 'No' vote in favour. Please be sure to throw only one vote mark each. I now ask the author, Mr Zanger, to begin with the name call; Mr Buchmayr will replace him later.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e10234	The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make their votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. I am interrupting the session for a few minutes to this end.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e10272	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 159; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 58, No votes: 101. The motion for a resolution is therefore rejected. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. [[By way of derogation from the announcement of the voting behaviour by President Head, the actual vote result is as follows: 160 votes cast, 58 votes cast, 102 votes cast.]] Members voted in ‘Yes’: Alm; Belakovich-Jenewein, Bösch, Brosz; Darmann, Deimek, Doppler; Gartelgruber, Glavischnig-Piesczek; Hable, Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hafenecker, Hauser, Höbart, Hofer, Hübner; Jannach; Karlsböck, Kitzmüller, Köchl, Kogler, Korun, Kunasek; noise, lights, loacker; Maurer, Meinl-Reisinger, Mlinar, Mölzer, Moser, Mückstein, Mühlberghuber; Neubauer Werner; Pirklhuber, Pock, Podgorschek; smoke Walter, Riemer, Rosary Barbara, Rosary Walter; Schelenbacher, Scherak, Schmid Gerhard, Schmid Julian, Schwentner, Steinhauser, Strache, Strolz; themesl; Vavrik, Vilimsky; Walser, Willi, Windbühler-Sushill, Winter, Worm Peter; Singer. Members voted with ‘No’: Amon, Antoni, Aubauer, Auer, Bacher Walter, Bayr, Becher Ruth, Berlakovich, Buchmayr; Cap; Darabos, Diesner-Wais, Dietrich, strike; Ecker, Ehmann, El Habbassi, Ertlschweiger, Eßl, Fichtinger Klaus Uwe, Fekter, Fichtinger Angela, Franz; Gahr, Gerstl, Gessl-Ranftl, Greiner Karin, Grillitsch, Groiß, Grossmann, Gusenbauer-Jäger; Hagen, Hakel Elisabeth, Hammer Michael, Hanger Andreas, Haubner, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Himmelbauer, Hofinger Manfred, Höfinger Johann, Huainigg; Jank, Jarolim; Karl, Katzian, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Knes, Königsberger-Ludwig, Kopf, Krainer Kai Jan, Krist, Kucharovich, Kucher, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lettenbichler, Lintl, Lipitsch, Lopatka, Lueger Angela, Lugar Robert; Matznetter, Mayer, Rebaur Kathrin; Oberhauser, Ovenauer, Ottenschlager; Pendl, Pfurtscheller, Plessl, Preiner, Prince; Rädler, Rasinger, Rauch Johannes; Donation, Schieder, Schittenhelm, Schmuckenschlager, Schönegger, Sieber Norbert, Singer Johann, Spindelberger, Steinacker, Steinbichler, Strasser; Tamandl, By; sub-railers; Vetter, Vogl; Wenninger, wicker, tiny, weaving, worm Gisela; Yılmaz; Zakostelsky.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e10475	Ladies and gentlemen, there are still a number of votes to be taken, so I would ask you to take the places. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, ladies and gentlemen, on the increase in resources for education, science and research. Whoever is here, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Whoever is here, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. That's why it's rejected. Vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Walter Rosenkranz, colleagues on the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister for Education and Women, pursuant to Rule 74(l) of the Rules of Procedure. 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act. In view of the fact that such a decision is taken by the National Council in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this paragraph. I expressly note the presence of half of the Members of Parliament in the terms of the Constitution quoted above. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the motion for a reluctance to accept it. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Whoever is here, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Strolz, colleagues on facilitating the implementation of the 2015 PISA study. Whoever is for this purpose gives a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Lugar, colleagues on the transparent education system and school autonomy for Austria. Whoever is here, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. That's why it's rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Strolz, colleagues, on the implementation of the Court of Auditors' proposals on administrative reform. Whoever is here, give a sign. – This is the minority. This request has not been accepted. Vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Franz, colleagues, on "Annual compulsory resuscitation training by voluntary institutions in all schools for young people aged 10 and over". I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Lugar, colleagues on ‘Reform of school administration instead of savings at the expense of pupils’. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are here for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. This request has not been accepted. [[15:57:18]] Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e10645	We shall now proceed to the debate on the request made by Mr Podgorschek, Mag. Kogler, Ing. Lugar, Dr. Hable, colleagues, on the establishment of an investigative committee on the examination of political responsibility for the operations relating to the Hypo Group Alpe-Adria. This request has now been distributed to all Members. There is therefore a lack of reading by the writer. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e10854	In the sense of § 57 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure is the speaking time in this debate for 5 minutes, with the first speaker having a speaking time of 10 minutes. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. We are going into the debate. The first is Mr Hable's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e10882	Mr President. High house! Estimated citizens and hypotalers on the gallery and in front of the screens! All good things are not three today, but four: This request for the establishment of a committee of inquiry is the fourth joint request made by four political groups in this House. This is the fourth, but not the fourth, and I can promise you, the last request to set up an investigation committee on Hypo Alpe-Adria – except you agree today and make up of these four political groups five or maybe six, then we would spare ourselves. This invitation is still true. But we know: We must keep the pressure on the Federal Government high, because otherwise nothing happens in this country! [[Congratulations with NEOS, FPÖ, Greens and Team Stronach.]] It is true that we are negotiating a reform of the Committee of Inquiry. We'll be constructive here, we'll get in here. But one thing we're saying: Negotiations have often been negotiated, and there has already been an agreement in 2009. We will see exactly whether this time will also follow the words, because a lot has already been announced in this country. But, as we know, there is always a lack of implementation. Let me take the opportunity today to address two counter-arguments, which are always presented when the question is asked: What do we need an investigation committee on Hypo Alpe-Adria for? A counter-argument is: Parliament has already been informed. There it is discussed, there are people in committees who are talking about everything anyway! Most of the people here know, but I would like to explain to the citizens what this is like: We did not have a debate on the subject of Hypo Alpe-Adria a few weeks ago in a financial committee. To this end, we had invited seven persons from the sheet of notes and from the FMA. Mrs. Dr. Griss was there, and the Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State were also present. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] This committee was set up for two hours, from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m., and he started with the fact that the Minister of Finance and also the central bank governor presented their PowerPoint presentations, and before they saw it, it was no longer 11 a.m., but already 10 a.m. before twelve. In other words, the representatives of the Financial Committee had an hour to ask questions and answers to seven persons and two members of the Federal Government. And, of course, it is said at the outset that it is unfortunately necessary to end on time at 1 p.m., because the information people have all the urgent dates and unfortunately have to leave at 1 p.m. So you can figure out what that looks like: There's a round of questions, and then there's a few answers. As a rule, these are not sufficient and satisfactory. And then all of us are told: That's enough. – I say to you: That's not enough! I would also like to give you an example of what questions I have asked. I thought: If Governor Novotny is already present at this financial committee today, I will immediately see the opportunity and ask him a few interesting questions about Hypo Alpe-Adria, because he is one of the people who have been largely involved in this process and who have been responsible for the decisions. I asked him: What happened to the entire audit reports of the OeNB, which did not only exist in 2009 just before the so-called emergency nationalization, but much earlier? I asked myself why this 2009 review report was not on the table in the negotiations before the so-called emergency nationalization in the days of December 2009. We now know from the Ministry of Finance that they didn't have it. That's why I'm wondering: Why is the governor sitting at the negotiating table and does not have this report in his briefcase? I have also asked him how he can explain that his Hypo Taskforce is the only expert commission that comes to the conclusion that the insolvency of Hypo Alpe-Adria is devil witness, while all the other international experts who have also been questioned – I now call the Wyman and ZDB opinions – have come to different opinions. I asked Mr Novotny because he said that all this had been examined in detail in legal terms: Mr. Governor Novotny, this is interesting. I'd like to see that too, we'd all like to see it! Where are these legal opinions? Why can the public not see these legal opinions, which seem to have been the basis for the decision? I asked him eight questions in total. How many questions do you think he answered? [[Abg. Darmann: Zero!]] - Zero! He didn't answer a single question! And that has not only been the case with me, but also with my colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, you already know this from the committees. But I wonder – and that is why I am saying this today – whether the citizens there know whether they know, for example, how a governor and other people are dealing with parliamentarians. He comes here before the Financial Committee like an informant, and is asked by the representatives of the people to a causa that will cost us at least €10 billion, but none of the questions answered! He talks and tells us how great everything is, but he doesn't answer any questions! That is a disdain of Parliament! That is a disdain for democracy! And I can align all, Governor Novotny and all the others who deal with the House in this way: It won't play in the future! The wind that will blow you out of this house will be so strong that you won't endure it anymore! We will not let this disdain of Parliament please us. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of Team Stronach, Greens and FPÖ.]] A second argument that is always put forward, why we do not need an investigation committee, is the activity of the so-called Griss Commission. – For those who have forgotten about Easter holidays: This is the Commission that was set up by the government to review itself, namely the government. Mrs. Dr. Griss is certainly a horrendous personality. I wonder why she's doing this and why she's getting stuck in front of the cart. – It is interesting to note, however, that this Griss Commission does not seem to be subject to official secrecy anymore. We have always heard from the Minister of Finance that he would anyway like to publish all the opinions that he cannot, however, because he is bound to official secrecy. But then an informal Commission will be set up, and at one time all the authorities will be able to deliver the files. That's what I'm asking myself: Where is the official secret? [[It was in favour of the NEOS as well as of representatives of the FPÖ.]] And of course, what is not given to this Commission of Griss is transparency. It has already been suggested how this is done: The Commission is being used, then you hear nothing and nothing and nothing, and then you get a final report sometime. Perhaps we'll get an interim report, but that's not safe either. – That means that people will be agreed and files delivered, and we all know nothing about it. That certainly can't work like that! I can only recommend to the Commission or the Federal Government to take a look over the borders, this time a look over the canal to England. There was the so-called Leveson investigation. In 2011, the Commission was set up and the final report was published in 2012. This Commission has been set up to investigate this hearing scandal, the News of the World scandal, and the difference is obvious: That was actually a public investigation. This was an investigation based on legal basis. This investigation was followed live. 337 witnesses or information people said there, and you could track everything live. Here in this Griss Commission, there is zero transparency. We'll see a final report and nothing else. This is certainly not enough, because the open questions are numerous. We ask ourselves: How can there be a bank that needs more than 60 percent of credit claims? How can it be that a bank is systematically eradicated by criminal activities? We have experienced the greatest bank robbery of history here on our doorstep! How can it be that credit procurement processes have been systematically eliminated and nothing happens for years? How can it be that this insanity of expansion, fueled by national arrests, has been watched? These are questions, open questions, on which we, the Members of Parliament, and the citizens who have hypo-numbers in this country, have a right. I therefore call on the citizens of this country: Support the petition! More than 140 000 citizens have already signed. Go to Parliament's homepage and support this petition! Three days of land are already there. We must keep the pressure up, otherwise nothing will happen in this country! Ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ – I am about to finish – I also invite you to go there! [[President Hofer gives the bell sign.]] Consider: Are you representatives of the National Council or representatives of the Government? As a member of the National Council, you have to go here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e10960	The speaking time of the Members who have now spoken is 5 minutes. The next speaker is Mr Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e11010	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I don't know why you're putting this issue back on again. We are nevertheless on the way to making it possible, with a change in the conditions on which the committees of inquiry can take place in this House, to approach this subject at all. It must be clear to everyone here: If one cannot examine the Carinthian administration and the operations that took place there, one will not be able to deal with the entire causa in the investigation committee here. Therefore, a reform of the Rules of Procedure will first have to take place. [[Abg. Strache: In Carinthia has already been examined twice! But the federal responsibility has not been examined through your prevention!]] You shouldn't have done the theater here! Mr. Strache! You shouldn't have done this here, because there the disaster was brought about by your party friends and by the great-grandfather of Jörg Haider. That was the circumstance. Of course you don't want this to be examined! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But please: They may think most of the population is not so intelligent. But I'm telling you: They failed when you think! And people know exactly how it came about. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] You know more than you believe! And you will already feel this in this year and in further elections! The method of the FPÖ is typical of this party's desire to be completely out of all responsibility. But that won't bring you anything! [[Abg. We want to investigate, but you prevent the investigation!]] I'm just waiting for the day you're going to block the investigation. Back to the question of nationalization. It was used here – Mr Hable has just said – that expert opinion would be suppressed here that an insolvency scenario is reasonable. – The funny thing is: That's not a question of secrecy. The core question could not yet be identified by any expert, such as in an insolvency scenario, the Carinthian national liability, which is found on each of the securities, whether it has been issued electronically or in paper form, should be obtained away. It was shot around with fog grenades that the country of Bavaria could have taken over or taken over. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Darmann.]] But that's not true! There was always only a public liability, namely that of the country of Carinthia, represented by the long-standing financial officer Jörg Haider, who was at the same time the supervisory commissioner of this bank. [[Abg. Strache: Now it's getting more and more crazy!]] And that's why it's not possible! That is why taxpayers have to pay their disaster! [[Abg. Strache: Now it's getting more and more crazy!]] We will really clarify this, I promise you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e11114	Mr Lopatka. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e11135	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I can go directly to Mr Matznetter's comments. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Street: What a “surprising ”!]] Since it has not been understood by all, I say, Repetitio est mater studiorum! – I repeat it, so that everyone understands it, in East Styria. ==References====External links== At the time, he took over state liability in the order of 3 billion. His predecessor was Christof Zernatto. The world was still fine. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] Then these country bonds are within the shortest time... Yes! [[Abg. - With the ÖVP?]] And with the SPÖ and at the end with the Greens, when it came to liability, at the last vote. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Yeah, that's it! But there is a first and a main responsibility, and the position of the head of state is not any, and it has used Jörg Haider accordingly. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: This is only true in the ÖVP! We have a basic democracy with us!]] Mr Rosenkranz, you can speak here instead of Podgorschek. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Unfortunately, this is not possible by business regulations!]] I can say: What was the final outcome of this government in Carinthia? [[Abg. Street: The sale to the Bavarian bank!]] No, no, no, I am already with Holub and with his statement in his report. I can't save you now. What does he say? – The Greens always take care of this. With the liberals I still understand why they always do this, but with the Greens I don't understand it, and with NEOS I don't understand it either, to say it directly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler.]] What was held back then? – ‘It can be found that the emergency nationalisation of the Hypo Group Alpes-Adria could have been prevented if all the listed operational weaknesses of the Bank had also caused corresponding reactions by the country.’ And what does he say? – “This did not mean that the country’s interest in securing the assets was perceived by the country’s supervision.” Next finding: ‘In this context, emergency nationalisation may be held as preventable if it had been acted accordingly.’ – But you always care! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Darmann.]] I would also like to tell you where this is really being seen, of course, in the case of justice. [[Abg. Strache: Is Jörg Haider guilty of nationalization?]] Yeah, well, Haider is yes, Klubobmann Stache, now you've got it! [[Abg. Strache: Is Jörg Haider guilty of nationalization when he no longer lived?]] The cause and therefore the blame lie precisely with Haider that the condition has been reached that the emergency nationalization had to be carried out. [[Abg. Strache: weren't you guilty?]] There would have been more than 20 billion liability overnight, and we would have looked at it! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Live calls to the FPÖ.]] [[President Hofer gives the bell sign.]] If you calm down a little, I'll come to the second point. I think we have something in common, namely that we – rightly – have a fundamental trust in justice, and justice is on the train and is investigating the criminal case. – Look I would like to ask you once more who is among the convicted on the more than 300 000 pages of the file, and in the more than 100 proceedings which have been initiated. This is a Carinthian No, not loud ÖVPler! [[Abg. Blow: Louter ÖVP-ler!]] First of all, you know very well that this crime is far from complete! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Yes. Unfortunately, there is also an ÖVP politician in the case of the convictions. There's nothing to deny. But I'd like to tell you: It is only a Carinthian criminal case that does not go beyond the national borders. But you always want to deny that! The second point, which is the most important for us now, because the taxpayer has already been asked to cash out, is now the best possible solution to the hypo and the best possible sale of the daughters. Do you believe that in both areas, when it comes to the case of justice, you can make a contribution in a committee of inquiry? - Not at all! And with regard to the best possible handling of the hypo: Do you think the hypo can be better handled when the accompanying music comes from an investigation committee? - Not at all! Now I am on the third point, on political responsibility. We don't want to cover anything at all. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] And the long-standing President of the Supreme Court Dr. Griss is a guarantee that proper investigation is carried out. Moreover, at an earlier date, criticism of the costs has already come, and I therefore say: The cost of this Commission of Inquiry is much lower than that of a committee of inquiry. [[President Hofer gives the bell sign.]] This should not be the cost, it should be political information, and this is done by the Commission of Inquiry.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e11357	Next speaker: Mr Podgorschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e11378	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen here in the High House and on the screens! I would like to correct Mr Hable in this respect. This is probably the fourth joint request, but in total it is already the 17th. Request for the establishment of a committee of inquiry, and 17 times the government parties prevent parliamentary control and information. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Secondly, Governor Novotny doesn't just have to Your questions did not answer, but he did not answer my questions either. When I asked him if he would make it available to the Committee on Papers, he said: Yes, we will make the files available, but only as long as this is in the legal framework. – But the whole is not within the legal framework, because this whole Commission of Inquiry has no legal basis, so they will get nothing at all. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Lopatka: That's not true!]] I am curious about how Members Vorarlberg and Styria are going to behave today, because both days of land have now decided by resolution that they will agree to an investigation committee and demand it. I now ask whether Members from Styria and Vorarlberg will at least agree today that we can finally install a committee of inquiry so that we do not have to start this debate every time, but we can save ourselves. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Finally, it is now more than 140 000 people who signed this petition, and if I add to the other petitions, it is the 200 000 citizens. And I think these people are very likely to have a right to be informed. You shouldn't put their faces under the table! And it is your fault when these people are angry and when there is anger in this republic! And then always comes completely nonchalant of the introduction by the ÖVP member: There have already been two committees of inquiry in Carinthia! – They had no way of investigating this federal responsibility at all. And that's on the table at last. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Furthermore, it is always claimed that this investigation committee would cost so much money, would in secret consume large amounts of money. But, interestingly, there is an article in the “Format” with the title “Hypo Examining: Commission small, fine and quite expensive’. And the article concludes that this Commission may not cost the said €500 000, which Dr Griss wants to cover, but if one calculates its projects – it expects that €4,000 will be charged per day – and if the investigation convoluted by the end of December, one can see that the costs can be up to €1.5 million. And this is a little different; the cost of the Committee of Inquiry is, of interest, projected with a million. So not even the argument counts anymore. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you always claim that there are so many proceedings pending, I can only tell you one thing: Many transactions are not necessarily judicial, but they are about political responsibility! [[Abg. Kogler: Right!]] And the population has a right to know why it has come to this emergency nationalization. I don't want anyone to assume that illegal things have happened, but it's just that the matter is being clarified. Just as it should be explained before, why the hypo has been sold, why Carinthia has sold the bank, why the Bayern wanted it, and of course why it has come to these liabilities. I don't have a problem with that at all. But if you say that all this is the fault of Jörg Haider, it seems to me as if you want to download it all on someone who can't defend himself. Meanwhile, I have the impression, quite salopp said, that zombie dominates Austrian domestic policy. But it really can't be like that! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A Commission can at best complement a committee of inquiry, but certainly not replace it, and that is why this Committee of Inquiry is more urgent than ever. And if you always say that this will be a minority right in the near future, yes then you can make the decision now, because before the autumn, this committee of inquiry cannot start its work anyway. But apart from that, if you want to decide soon that the establishment of a U-committee will be a minority right, then there is nothing against your consent today. But one thing is clear: Such a thing must never happen again, that so much money will be poured out at the expense of taxpayers! And the population has a right to information.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e11472	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e11494	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! As so often, we must first correct or eliminate some rarity that has been thrown into the debate here by ÖVP and SPÖ. Mr Klubobmann Lopatka, it is just as wrong to say that the Greens in Carinthia had agreed to these liabilities. It is true that in 2004, it was decided that in 2007 these liabilities would be thanks to God – by the way, at the pressure of the European Commission. [[Abg. Lopatka: Get out of here later! Watch out! Not 2007!]] The Rolf Holub agreed that new liabilities will no longer be accepted from 2007. [[Abg. Lopatka: But get out later!]] Yeah, now, for example. That is why it would be so reasonable to seek the insolvency solution because we would then be able to enable those great believers who have financed the whole pyramid game in these years to go after the Mafia in the Balkans themselves in order to drive the money – instead of taking the money from the front of the taxpayer, moving over there and then looking at how we are going to proceed here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Frameset]] [[Congratulation of the Abg. Street@item incidence access is by owner only]] [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ.]] If Mrs Fekter notes that the Greens have always had a certain capacity for resolution units, that is right. I don't want to withdraw from the argument. But there could always have been hybrid solutions where, on the one hand, one tries to minimize capital laying obligations accordingly – that would have been a lot failed earlier than now, but you have failed – where, second, one sees how to drive the money as far as possible, and thirdly, that one nevertheless took up the contribution by the great believers in advance, which is not only worthy of protection here, but explicitly included first of all for market reasons and second for reasons of justice. [[Congratulation with the Greens as well as with representatives of the FPÖ]] And that's still true! By the way, you haven't brought in your law to this day. They do not do anything more about this resolution unit. In this respect, we are living the chance that we will not go over to paying out all the billions of claims that these unreasonable creditors impose on us. We can continue to discuss this – for the protection of taxpayers. Then, too, an educational debate would feel different than you did. But there we have, thank God, adjusted a few things. - Well, that's one. On the record, the Court of Justice is anyway investigating: Yes, first of all, it only examines by the period 2008/2009 and second only certain galeries that have nothing to do with political responsibility. You know that very well. Or do you want to say that this so-called emergency state settlement is a criminal case? This is not criminal law, I hope at least. But if we have to investigate this, then for the reason that the experts who by the way commissioned the Republic itself, Mrs Fekter, said for themselves, like the auditor Kleiner: Bavaria's got better poker. They drove to Vienna to frighten the oese, and all of a sudden they left the whole bank with the billion hole. And they would have believed they'd put up a maximum of half. - That was the fall of sin! And there you can't always refer to the Jörg Haider, who had died a long time ago! [[Congratulation of the Abg. Bitch.]] That's just the way it is. Sorry! That's it! [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ.]] Or another question to be clarified is why you or anyone who has required the central bank to issue an opinion in 2008 which is half a healthy bank. At that time she was already dead and should not have gotten any money. Nevertheless, you have somehow organized the fact that the European Commission has been gladdened by this opinion and approved of the aid. If that hadn't happened, we would have saved all the follow-up. At that time, one should have found and should have found an orderly end in dealing with the bank. And that's what you've avoided with your probable manipulation, that the central bank is still exhibiting a testat that it should never have been able to exhibit, based on its own knowledge. In that respect, this mail traffic, which was played to me, is so provocative – and that is what is being examined – where the bank staff themselves already say: Actually, we can't do that. What if they can't pay? And what if a U committee comes? All this will come. We will examine this, and it will be clear who is the main responsibility here. And with your kittens, you won't stop that. And I give you a good advice if we are discussing God now thanks to the reform of the U-committees: no kittens, no attempts to escape through the side door! – It is completely clear: essentially the model of the German Bundestag. Then you can see where there are compromises. But one thing is not going to go: that beyond the year we do not start research into the hypo here, because – and I come to the last point – it is obvious in every developed parliamentary democracy that such a thing examines a U-committee and not an appointed government commission. [[Congratulations with Greens and FPÖ as well as representatives of NEOS and Team Stronach.]] I would like to say to this Committee on Government: What's she got for an assignment? And by whom? Give the Council of Ministers a speech that says what's going on inside! I have at least given Mrs Griss the request to the committee of inquiry, because at least she has an investigation plan. We don't know what the government commissioned. Open this up! If you can open this up, otherwise the whole thing is condemned to failure from the outset, especially because a member of this Commission was until recently head of the Deutsche Bank Luxembourg, whose daughter holds 320 million mortgage bonds! Congratulations!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e11602	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Nachbaur. - Please, Mrs. Klubobfrau.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e11624	Mr President. Colleagues in the House! Dear taxpayers! Now that the political solution is finally there, it is high time to make itself aware of the political responsibility and, of course, to think about how this political responsibility should ultimately be dealt with. It simply can't be – and I repeat here probably – that the same actions or non-actions of politicians and private individuals have completely different legal consequences. That cannot be in a rule of law. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] There are many open questions to be resolved in a committee of inquiry. And in my opinion, everything should be examined from the point of time when the note bank's judgment came to be that the mortgage bank is not in need. Everything is to be investigated here, but from me you can start earlier. Perhaps the government will agree, since it sees the guilty in Carinthia alone anyway. Hypo Alpe-Adria is not only the largest banking plate in the Second Republic, but also a major cross-border criminal case. And I hope that the planned mining society will not serve to bury and keep everything covered as far as possible. In this context too, in addition to criminal law, a U-committee is of course the only appropriate means to ensure that there is no remaining information here. Everything else does not work, we have seen it in this famous financial committee with the experts. Most questions were not answered. That was really a very polite speech and in good steirisch right for the cat. Many questions have been asked, even by me. There are so many lazy loans in this mining company. And the logical question, which is associated with it, is: Was it written down correctly over the years? It is a legal obligation that you write down correctly in accounting. I don't know if that happened. And who is responsible for it? Or other questions are: Why did you give the Bavaria a say? Why is the capital replacement law not applicable? [[Abg. Fekter: That's what's going to happen now! You really don't know each other!]] What supervision was actually responsible for the problematic Balkan operations? Was that the national supervisors? Was that the Austrian supervision? In this context, supervision. The FMA prepares a very professional and extremely extensive annual report, and it is aware that it also reports very detailed about the many organ penalties it distributes each year. This shows that it is particularly strict formally. I do not understand why one is formally so strict and thus actually the business of banks, what is happening to the real economy, the support of entrepreneurs, the award of loans et cetera, so insanely bureaucratic and slow, instead of focusing more on the material tests, whether a bank may have a too risky business model. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The Commission's approach to Mrs Griss's report is as follows: These are certainly great experts, and she too enjoys a reputation as a great lawyer. I very much support this, but I only mean that everything will not be useful if it has no means at its disposal. There is no obligation of truth. If witnesses don't show up, they won't show up. This is a, unfortunately, totally toothless device, and this way will not pass by the investigation committee. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team as well as representatives of FPÖ and Greens.]] Another toothless instrument, in my opinion, is the Banking Union, which many are now very proud of. In three years, €55 billion will be paid here. You can't save a big bank with that. And the whole resolution mechanism is a bureaucratic monument. I suspect that the whole structure is a fig leaf so that banks can eventually be rescued from the ESM. In front of loud toothless devices here again an appeal from me to the government parties: Please give a back, agree to the Investigation Committee! And believe me, if everything is anyway the way you represent it, then that can only do well for your reputation and the reputation of politics in general, if you provide for enlightenment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e11682	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by Mr Podgorschek, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Kogler, Ing. Lugar, Dr. Hable, colleagues on the establishment of an investigative committee. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this by a sign. – That is rejected. [[16:34:01]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e11716	I am still announcing that, at today's meeting, the self-employed have received requests from 367/A(E) to 389/A(E). Question No 1312/J has also been received until 1350/J. [[16:34:20]] Request within the meaning of § 99 para. 2 GOG
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00020_d8e11740	I also announce that, in the context of the Self-employed Request 371/A, the Court of Auditors' special act on the implementation of a special act of conduct of the Court of Auditors, relating to the awards under the Company Liquidity Act, a request by 20 Members within the meaning of § 99 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. As the legal requirements are met, this examination must also be carried out without the decision of the National Council. The next meeting of the National Council, held on Tuesday, 29 October. April, at 10 a.m., will be convened in writing. This meeting is closed.
