ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e4530	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning! The meeting was opened. Deputies have been reported as preventing the refusalstorfer, Maurer, Dr. Mückstein, Mag. Musiol, Mag. Honey, Windbüchler-Souschill and President Hofer. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e4561	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: The Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management Dipl.-Ing. Andrä Rupprechter is the Federal Minister for Families and Youth MMag. Dr. Sophie Karmasin and the Federal Minister for Europe, Integration and External Affairs Sebastian Kurz is represented by the Federal Minister for Justice Dr. Wolfgang Brandstetter.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e4605	I announce that the current hour and the current European hour will be transferred live to ORF 2. ORF III will forward this session live in full length. [[09:07:12]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e4626	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: “No chance of jihadism – measures taken by Austria against the terrorist threat” Mr Amon is the first to speak. I give him this and make sure that the speaking time is 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e4654	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As a People’s Party, we have chosen the theme “No Chance of Jihadism – Measures against the terrorist threat of Austria”. [[Abg. Kickl: Don't seem to affect the Minister of the Interior!]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: They don't care!]] In fact, the issue of one which, in addition to many economic issues which are currently very massive in our lives, is, in some areas, related to the issues of all fundamental and freedom rights. It is a matter which, I believe, should be more busy with us than it is currently at present, and which, not least, could not be more up-to-date because of the measures put forward by a broad alliance of states yesterday. That is why, I believe, it was also very important and properly elected. The world sees itself through this terrorist organization “Islamic State” confronted with a new form of violence and terror, because it is not only in the form of the fact that there are punctual attacks on innocent people, because this violence is not only such that it comes to sudden destruction, because this form of violence is not only such as to spread fear and terror as a fundamental goal, but because – and this is much more dramatic than anything we have experienced in recent years and, I say, decades – this terrorist organization is a territorial claim because it is in truth such an imperialist claim aimed at winning space, which is aimed at achieving a world domination, so absurdly that sounds. It is increasingly evident that, if one wants to say so, the territories conquered in Iraq or also in Syria already have something like a state structure – not in the sense of international law, of course, but in the form of an organization. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a completely new quality, is a massive threat to our Western and European culture, which we have to face with all the means and very decisively! [[It was in favour of the ÖVP as well as of representatives of SPÖ and FPÖ.]] Nor is it about experiencing a war of cultures here, as Huntington once described. On the contrary: It is not a struggle, no war, no conflict that goes along a religious border, because if you look at the victims, the victims are now primarily Muslims. Muslims themselves are the victims of this terrorist organization “Islamic State”, and many others are the victims of this terrorist organization. [[Call:Women]] That is why we really need a broad alliance of those who want to uphold human rights that want to uphold the rights of peace and freedom in Europe, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] And we must bear in mind all the measures we take, the liberal rule of law, the open society that we want and that we must defend! However, it is also necessary, ladies and gentlemen, to have a well thought-out, well-balanced but rapid set-up of measures to counter this danger. It is, of course, the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice whose departments are concerned with this task. First of all, of course, it concerns the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and Terrorism, i.e. the Interior, but in the course of the course, of course, regarding case law et cetera, the judicial body. We have therefore tabled a number of proposals to be considered, and where I would like to invite all of you, ladies and gentlemen, including you from the opposition, to participate in this discussion, including with ideas. I think that no one has really found the stone of the wise to face this new threat. But I believe that on this issue we need not only a European, global, but also national etiquette in order to take decisive action against this threat. The Federal Minister for the Interior has put forward proposals. In order to ensure that minors do not participate in such terrorist actions, border controls have been considered in such a way that young people should not be able to leave the corresponding areas outside Europe without the consent of their guardians. On the issue of citizenship law, there should be a recognition of citizenship if persons participate in such military acts, provided that they do not become stateless. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: They will not be stateless!]] It is also a question of how to deal with those symbols and sympathys to which this terrorist organization refers “Islamic State”. All of this includes a package that is now under review, but I would like to stress that we would like to invite you from the opposition to participate here with proposals so that good measures can be taken to take into account what we want. There is a quote promised to Benjamin Franklin, which is attributed to him, but which is very often rendered as follows: “Whoever gives up freedom to gain security will lose both at the end!” A quote that doesn't find my undivided consent. I then researched a little bit and found out from the original text that it was a wrong translation. The original quote in the correct translation is: “Those who would give up fundamental freedom to acquire low temporary security deserve neither freedom nor security!” And this quote, ladies and gentlemen, is on the point. We must take measures to counter this danger, always in the right, balanced balance, not to cut fundamental and freedom rights by fee in order to combat a terrorist threat. We must put in place such measures as our authorities, our executives, will be able to provide for our security, for our model of freedom, culture and life, and thus ensure a successful future for our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e4741	To give a preliminary opinion on the matter, Mr Federal Minister Dr. Brandstetter. Mr Federal Minister, your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e4770	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. High house! We are all under the impression of these terrible atrocities committed by ethnic and religious minorities. We all need to make our contribution to the fight against these tendencies by appropriate means as much as possible, and so do we. It is really terrible to see how a religion is eventually abused, because if you get closer to it, it is always noted that, for example, the most respected Islamic leader in Cairo will not tire of Great Mufti Shawki Allam to point out almost daily that it would be absolutely unacceptable to base terrorist acts on religious motives and that this would be completely foreign to Islam, correctly understood. There you can see, however, what degree of error and misguided conduct is ultimately expressed here. And that is also exactly the point where we are concerned, also domestically, especially with regard to young people who are misleading, misleading and misguided. I can, in essence, take a short look at the fact that Mr Amon has already made a lot of advances. Yes, it is right for every minister in his field of competence to do everything that can be done here in order to counter these dangers. I'm sorry. I'm It is true that the Minister of the Interior, in her area of competence, wants to inculcate a border control law in order to protect these young people who really think they have to go to a holy war because of the hateful people they radicalize. It is also right where this is possible – there will not be many cases – to look closer to the legal basis of double citizenship. All these measures in the legal field, as far as they are concerned now, are or will at least be in review very soon; and that is good. I would just like to hold on to my area of competence with regard to two things. On the one hand: We have for some years had a really strict law against terrorist activities. Any form of support for a terrorist organisation, whatever its name is, is punishable in Austria, regardless of whether these activities are put in place domestically or abroad, and ultimately threatened with imprisonment for up to 15 years. That means that we have no need to inculcate, that is not necessary! [[Congratulations on ÖVP, Greens and Deputies of the SPÖ.]] Yes, it is! We have already done our homework here a few years ago, and this is now helping us, because it makes sense, in the end, to be able to counter it at an early stage on this very strict legal basis, which we already have, and this has proved successful. There is one point in which I am personally in favour of making this crime, about which it is here, a little more effective. I don’t want to say so much “intensification. ” But this is not directly related to the terrible phenomena discussed under the term “jihadism”, but we have been discussing this for a long time: This concerns the situation of hatred. I believe that this situation should be made more effective against radicalism and against radical tendencies in every direction. On the occasion of the Square Tower in Bishops' Courts a few months ago – you will remember – we have in mind here that we are reducing the requirement of criminality from the perceptibility of around 150 people to a smaller number of people, which would mean ten. Why? – That is, I think, really useful in explaining this example. That was a training game, as there was apparently no more than 150 spectators. But it cannot make any difference from the danger of the course of action, whether I have some 30, 50, 100 or 200 viewers at this time. No, that's dangerous! It is simply so that, with the deed of hatred, one should be able to counter these tendencies to radicalization and these really racist statements and actions as effectively as possible. This, as I said, is not just jihadism, we have thought about it before. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of SPÖ and Greens.]] I have to take a short look at this, but it is mainly about the first paragraph of the heating stock, which is to be made more effective. It is not about paragraph 2, which – and I see that too – presents the danger of perhaps overcoming this crime and then falling under it, which should not, at least if you are talking about security of meeting. That's what's going to happen in our area. But what I liked very much about what Mr Amon said: Amon has rightly said that we need something like a national epaulment, because the most important thing is that we do everything here in the field of prevention in order to prevent young people from moving to a country of which they believe they have to go there. actively participate in any activities or even fights, in the mistaken view that they would serve a higher goal here. That's really terrible. And enough young people from Austria have already died there, just as they believe it is not. That's why it makes sense to consider: What can one do to actually immunize these young people against this seduction by hateful and radical people who actually instrumentalize them? What can you really do here? And there is a real need for many measures at all levels. I can only say that I myself do not know what else you can or should do here, but we have the “hope against hatred and hatred” on 14 May. That is why, in October, together, we are also considering and organizing, Mr Mikl-Leiter, Mr Kurz and I, because we want to talk to experts about what we can do here. And of course – and this is the key word: national shoulder closure – you have to involve other resorts here too. Of course also the teaching centre; I spoke only yesterday to Mrs Heinisch-Hosek about it. Of course also the Family Ministry, ultimately also the Ministry of Art. Precisely critical young people often understand the language of art better than the language of the law. It is important that young people are approached, but one also sees the need to help these young people in so far as they have to find their place in society. They must have a corresponding employment, they must be able to reach a social position that will lead them to lose something. This makes them largely immune to these radicalisation trends, and that is exactly what we need to create so that we can fight against radicalisation and, ultimately, violence on a broad front with preventive measures in our country. Finally, let me say the following: Radicalisation in the form of actions must be combated, including criminal measures. But it starts earlier, radicalization begins with words, which unfortunately often also follow actions. And here, too, I think I can say that it is important to maintain the sensitivity that radicalisation is also a problem in words and should be seen as such. If we all act and react accordingly together, then, I believe, we will also succeed in putting together what is possible in action, together and everyone in their area, which is ultimately necessary to do everything in the interest of our youth, so that there is not so much radicalization, neither in words nor at all in deeds. We have too much radicalization in this country, we also have too much violence on the streets. For me, this is related, and we really have to do everything on a broad front to counter it. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e4864	Thank you, Minister of State. I draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants at the current hour according to § 97a Abs. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 5 minutes. I call Mr Jarolim. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e4891	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! I can only underline what the Minister of Justice has said here, and I also believe that it is very, very essential to make himself aware that the precise observation of further developments, the further processes, the setting of further measures to keep the rule of law open and at the same time to preserve and enforce fundamental rights cannot be the task of individual ministers, as you say correctly, but that this is the task of all of us. The leadership is of course with the Federal Government. In this respect, it is of course also very, very wise and important to involve in the field of education/education, because of course it is primarily young people, puberty young people who are recruited by different sides for these absolutely insane atrocities, which are supposed to commit religious groups, over the Internet and other places of action. It is indeed true that since World War II, we were no longer confronted with such atrocities and insanity with Mr Amon. The execution of people, the killing of people, the minds of people and the weak in front of the media have not actually taken place until now. But this also shows us that we want to use this public as a means of disfellowshipping more people. And on the other hand, you have to act. The fact that we are confronted with here is that these self-proclaimed warriors, who are basically misused, misled complexers, are being recruited for these atrocities, and this shows us that at these levels we must break our heads over new measures. I believe that it is absolutely right what the Federal Minister says, namely that the relevant criminal laws are present, that we do not need new acts, that our terrorist provisions are sufficient. It shall apply and apply correctly. We do not want to experience anything like the animal protection process again, where a completely misleading view leads to the imposition of such measures against individuals that have never been thought of in this context. Keeping this eye is very important, and therefore the open discussion involving all parties, but of course also civil society, is very essential. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of ÖVP and Greens.]] – Thank you, too, for the suggestion. [[Abg. Arbitrators: I thought an intermediate applause was better than an intermediate call!]] Yeah, that's actually unusual from the role, that's right. [[call to the FPÖ.]] Yes, of course, from the speaker's desk it is relatively difficult to make an interlocutory call, because you are absolutely right, Mr President. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Good, but in general, the situation is extremely serious, and I think we are required here. Personally, this does not seem to me quite comprehensible in the international context, because we have actually experienced this murder since June, and it is only now that the counter-actions are starting very slowly. If you look at who really is fighting here on the ground, namely the Kurdish tribes, who are fighting here using their lives – it is actually threatening their livelihood here – then of course all the support that is possible is applicable here, and it must be done internationally that those forces who are able to support here – whether this is moral, military or by means of material services – can also work accordingly. In Austria, it is essential and important to immunize young people in schools wherever it is possible to do so, but at the same time to act against those who are driving their unwholesome game here, namely the recruitment activities. Therefore, it is also important to look at: Where did this come from? Who's doing that? And: How can one deal with it? I believe that, in this context, one must also consider some measure, such as can be done more effectively on the Internet. At the same time, however, we need to ensure that legal protection is improved, that supervision is improved, that users may also become a smaller group and that, ultimately, monitoring is carried out here in Parliament. I think it is also important to show what a rule of law really means. It is symbolised by these circles and presented in such a way that the democratic rule of law of the European Union is a weak state, where one can actually afford everything where one can easily bring violence to the country. It's not like that! A democratic rule of law is defensive and we will show it, taking into account fundamental rights and taking into account transparency. This House is called for here, and I am sure that we will find a good solution in view of these incredible processes and the absolute need to oppose everything that is possible here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e4948	Next item is the report by Mrs Mag. Steinacker. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e4969	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Appreciate fellow citizens! “Democracy can’t be imposed on any society, it’s not a gift you’ve ever received. It must be fought and defended daily.” This quote is from Heinz Galinski, the first and long-standing president of the Central Council of Jews in Germany. Galinski is thus addressing the principle of disputed democracy. What is a disputed democracy? What does he understand about it? – Democracy enables groups working against tolerance and democracy, precisely because of their tolerance. And we must stop that with all our strength! The line of our government and our Republic must be: Zero tolerance to the jihadists! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The only possible consequence of the alarming events of the last weeks and months: We must do everything that the migration of jihadists in Austria has no chance. This is the responsibility of all, politics, society as a whole, but also of families in our country. Hatred can't have a chance in our country! Then: Otherwise, to stylize thinking or other living people into enemy images, that contradicts any democratic attitude in our country and contradicts the value of life and the right to life that every person has in principle. Such extreme enemy images that are built justify murder and genocide in their sense at the end of the day. In my religion – and for that I know – that says 5. Command: You're not supposed to kill! And this also applies to every other world religion: You're not supposed to kill! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] For us, it has so far been unthinkable that in the middle of Austria young people, often even minors, who grew up within the framework of our democratic society are, so strongly reject our values that they remove all barriers and recognize enemies and generate themselves, which there is no such thing. That's shocking, and it just can't happen. I am very grateful to our vice chancellor and the Federal Ministers of Brandstetter, Short and Mikl leaders for the good proposals they make at the right time, and for the comprehensive package they have presented to address these dangers. The media have called our ministers a security minister in recent days. I also call them the Minister of the State of the Law and the Minister of Democracy. Terrorism and hatred are an attack on democracy and the rule of law. They poison our democratic climate. In history, we have already had to experience this painfully. And we can probably get smarter out of it. Today, hate and recruitment of terrorist groups are no longer taking place on the streets, but on social media in the small area. That is why the proposed changes that the Minister of Justice has just presented are, I believe, a very important point of departure. Be the beginnings! Extremism must not have a chance in Austria. There must be no climate of fear and intolerance. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not think anyone believes that criminal law alone is enough to ensure that extremist ideas do not poison our democratic climate, although, of course, we want to implement these proposed changes. Prevention is the command of the hour. The government has the task of ensuring the best possible protection for all people, and it is fulfilling this task now and in the future. But we are all called upon to look to show civil courage, to be courageous and to take a position and, above all, to live up to democratic and rule-of-law values for young people. Every young person growing up in our country must have the absolute respect for the dignity and life of man, and he must also receive it. And every young person must have prospects in our democratic society, because that makes him immune to extremism and terrorism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e5049	Mr Klubobmann has spoken next time. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e5070	Madam President. Minister of Justice! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! “No chance of jihadism” and effective measures against this development are particularly necessary. In this way, the current hour is particularly important, because the situation is serious, and the problem is also present in our country. This does not say the head of opposition HC Strache, but that is what secret services that have warned about it for years now, to their own constitutional protection, that this problem is not new, but is also recognised by the Austrian Constitutional Protection for more than ten years, have been constantly informed to the government members about these developments, namely the fact that Austria, also according to American intelligence, has been the recruitment and marching centre of radical Islamists for over a decade. What now becomes visible is unfortunately an inactivity in recent years, is that these warnings have not been taken seriously and those who have warned of it, We have often been put in the wrong corner, that is, in the case of freedom of movement. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is particularly important not to deny this problem, but at last to deal with it seriously and honestly. Of course, we must take decisive action against these developments, which are taking place here in Austria, and we must see them in the context of the dramatic development in relation to the atrocities we regularly read about, which we also need to see in part. Unfortunately, via YouTube you can see God's most cruel videos, where people are best murdered, where mass killings of dissidents, disbeliefs. You can't imagine that cruelty. You can't even look at it, it's so cruel. We must, of course, put in place all the necessary measures. And that's what I'm asking myself, Minister of Justice: Why is it not being done here with the full hardness of a ban law against this Islamic organization? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There you have to say clearly and clearly: There can be no millimeters of tolerance, and of course you have to use all legal means and possibilities. We have the problem in Austria that we have slept a lot in recent years. On the one hand, there has been the debate about the King Abdullah Centre in Vienna, where one has to say that a very critical debate was held at the time, and the Greens have also been very critical of this centre. A dialogue centre is to be welcomed in principle, but you should also ask this very critically. With Saudi Arabia, for example, the United States is maintaining friendly contacts, including us, most friendly contacts, but one should already question the rule of law structure of this state. What's going on there? – There, people who own a Bible are threatened with handshaking, and this is implemented by the rule of law. People who wear a cross are locked in and must not enter at all. People who are homosexual are threatened with the death penalty. There are other disbeliefs. There, I say, a dialogue centre would be important, on the spot, where – I say quite consciously – abuses prevail. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is also necessary to maintain a different approach at the official level and to enter into a discussion, for there it begins. There it begins, and many extremists refer to it that there is such a rule of law there. We have this problem even in Austria. At the time of the former president of the Islamic community of Schakfeh, there was a book, “Allowed and Prohibited in Islam” – Schakfeh called the author Yusuf al-Qaradawi a very large scholar at that time – and this book was used at Austrian schools in religious teaching. Afterwards, it was also taught until 2006, until we liberals showed this because it was fortunately played to us and we were able to put it off with the discovery of the scandal. There it was, please, the following – you should be careful now! –, it said: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walser]] You can beat women, it's allowed. The claim for world domination has been proclaimed. The fornication and the apostasy from Islam have to be punished with the death penalty. Homosexuality has to be punished with the death penalty. This has been taught at Austrian schools! 21 Salafist kindergartens we have in Vienna, and that was taught! Who knows what else is there or there today? is taught in backyards and other room for prayer! Constitutional protection has been warning for years. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Wheeler.]] That is, please do not act as if this were a new problem, Mr Amon! This is an obvious problem that we have had for a long time. And one has not only looked away, but has even subsidized such club structures in part. You have to stress that too. I only remember Mr Al-Rawi in Vienna, who is stuck in such structures and who has also met with terrorists here in Vienna. You have to highlight this critically before, to show that we have to change something. If such things from the dark Middle Ages are preached in Austria, in schools, in front of children, then we must not be surprised that this is going in this direction when it is communicated, one may be allowed to kill such people, to be disbelieving believers. It starts with the word. If one refers to words and sentences, according to which other believers and unbelievers are to be killed – which unfortunately happens to God – when called to the Holy War, in prayer houses, in backyards, even in Austria, then we must take this very, very seriously, but then we must also deal with the full hardness of the rule of law. Mr President, I ask you to make sure that you have our full support! We must no longer look away and no longer sink into winter sleep, but we must be very active, otherwise we will sleep – and this is a real threat to our state, to our rule of law, to our democratic society and to our values.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e5179	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Steinhauser. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e5201	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Minister! No question: It belongs to those who recruit and hate young men, young boys, young women under false promises. It is rigorous to take action against the backmen of jihadism. And the question why we don't have a law on bans is that we already have a number of criminal provisions that we can do efficiently: Membership in a terrorist association is punishable, terrorist financing is punishable, training for terrorist purposes is criminal, the approval of terrorist crimes is punishable, hatred is punishable. We have opportunities to take action against the backmen of jihadism and to apply these paragraphs when they surely send young people and their families to ruin. Whether right-wing extremism or Islamic fundamentalism is – these totalitarian views have no place in our society, and that must also be felt by those concerned! [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the IS-Terror, however, pursues two objectives. One goal is murder, rape and expulsion in Iraq and Syria, and the second goal is fear and restriction of fundamental rights in our democracy. Yes, we have to take the view of terror by criminal means, but we must not take the fundamental and freedom rights into consideration. This is an essential lesson from 15 years of war against terrorism, which is already being fought, we do not start with zero. Ladies and gentlemen! If terror succeeds in spreading a climate of fear and terror in Austria and Europe, it was successful. If terror succeeds in restricting our fundamental and freedom rights, it was successful. If terror succeeds in advocating and driving the policy in Europe, in America and in Austria, it was successful. This makes terrorism attractive to many: that he exercises this power, that in fortified democracies he puts politics in a state of alert and pushes ahead. And we must not give in to this fear. We must also firmly oppose terrorism domestically by not giving in to these very points and not sacrifice our legal achievements. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Minister, I say quite honestly, because of your present appearance there is, I believe, a lot of consensus, but for some reason – perhaps you have developed in your position as well – you have not addressed a subject from the package. [[Abg. Hi?- Oh, my God!]] – Content development is not wrong, that was meant positively. Mr. Minister, you have repeatedly put the storage of data in all packages into play. The stock data storage – for our viewers – is the storage of our mobile and Internet data, who was when, who called who when, who sent when, who sent a text message. This was a measure of the terrorist package, which our Minister of Justice has repeatedly put into play and which he has deliberately left out today. This may also be a further development of your position. I would very much welcome this because it is precisely those surveillance measures such as data storage of stocks that are aimed directly at the heart of fundamental and freedom rights. You know that the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Justice have also abolished this storage of data. If you are now trying to bring them back into the debate, so to speak, then this is nothing new, because the storage of data has already been introduced to Austria from the point of view of combating terrorism – at that time it was not IS, but Al-Qaida. Even then we were told that we respect fundamental and freedom rights, that is all constitutional. - Didn't keep it. We had two years of data storage in Austria, no terrorist crime was resolved in connection with data storage. What has remained is the intervention into our fundamental and freedom rights without evidence of necessity. I see it positively that You didn't formulate it today. Perhaps you have developed on this point – I would be glad – and we really see where gaps are. In the criminal laws, at the time of hatred, one can certainly discuss whether there is still need for improvement here, or, as you are perfectly addressing, in prevention. The most important goal must be to ensure that people, young people, do not even slip into the jihadist scene. If we put in criminal laws, it's usually too late, then it's already happened. Our goal must be to prevent the jihadists, the backmen of terror in the boys from being successful, and that is why prevention is the right point. We need to create contact points where parents, teachers, friends can call if there are first indications that young people come in contact with the jihadists, with the terrorists. If you read these biographies, you can see that the change has taken place very slowly. That's where we have to start so they don't slip in. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] – Last sentence. But the following, ladies and gentlemen, must give us some thought: Why do young people exchange their lives in Austria against the war in Syria, why is there obviously so little perspective for some in Austria that the cruel everyday war in Syria seems to be more attractive to them? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e5257	The next item is the report by Mr Vetter. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e5279	Madam President. Minister! High house! Terrorism is always a phenomenon that surprises. Especially in a country that has lived in peace for a long time, one is a bit out of the house when one sees that one is also somehow affected. If you hear, as in the last few days, that this terrorist organization itself in Australia wants to decapitate people on the open road, then you are already shocked and know all the more, that could actually happen here. Here too, a lot happens. People are recruited, and democracy must be defensive and take action. Of course, perfecting is primarily the task of the administration, which has the appropriate instruments in hand. I am also glad if this new kind of terrorism does not lead to an occasion legislation and it is said that now you have to change everything, because we really have a good instrument. However, I must say that it is not just the backmen of terrorism, it is of course also the frontmen of terrorism, and I think it is wrong to say that it is only society that has been seduced by the poor young people. We have a right of guilt, which states that the individual is responsible. Even if someone is only 15 or 16 years old, ladies and gentlemen, he himself is responsible for going to war. It is not the society that has provided too few de-escaling hotlines, too few burgers and too little Coca-Cola, but it is the individual people who go to war. This individual responsibility is very important in criminal law, we should not be talking about it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and the FPÖ representatives.]] I would like to comment on two points, also because the Minister for Justice is here. A point has already been raised, namely the paragraph of the pressurization. The heating section is divided into two parts. Paragraph 1 calls for violence by the hatred. I think it is worth discussing whether to raise the penal framework when it comes to just two years. The problem is also the groups referred to in this paragraph 1 of the Injury Paragraph. There on race – interestingly – is placed on the skin color and the like. I wonder if it is factually justified if the “red skins ” are a protection group, but the “red hairs ” are not. What is made for differences in this paragraph is really to think about it. On the other hand, paragraph 2 – and the Minister has already mentioned this – is actually heading in a completely different direction. It is tried to punish the contempt as such. There is a real critical question as to whether this is not a problematic offence, in so far as it can also be used politically. For example, I think that not a few months ago a major demonstration took place in Vienna and was put in half Vienna: “You can have our hatred.” It is to be reconsidered whether these things would not also be included in the hate paragraphs. There are also other examples: “ Who Sow Hatred ” – How Quick Is Hatred? If a man cheats on a woman or vice versa, meet up, ten, discuss – The hate will soon be there. The question is whether we can punish hatred as such, ladies and gentlemen. Only when he is connected with violence, when he is really associated with violence, will he call for violence, then we are all called upon to punish with all hardness. – This is the one point I wanted to address. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ.]] The other is also the point of peace, ladies and gentlemen, which has been discussed in the media over and over again. Especially now when we are talking about terrorism, we should also look at other possibilities that we may not have had before us. If we had a probably peacefully registered Islamic demonstration, which then violently exemplifies jihadist, attacks a democratic institution, attacks a Jewish centre, or similar, then I do not know, ladies and gentlemen, whether we would not be very happy if we had the peace-break paragraphs. So I call on all those who are critical of this, to reconsider their criticism of this paragraph, whether there are no constellations – as is just shown – in which they would also say: Yes, democracy must be defensive, and this paragraph helps us to fight terrorist violence and punish it as we really want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e5339	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Meinl-Risinger. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e5360	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the Pulse 4 “Pro/ Contra” on Monday, you, Mr. Minister, announced your principle in dealing with the phenomenon of jihadism. You said prevention is better than repression. They have literally said and today also repeated – and I very much welcome this – that there are enough criminal offences. I welcome this principle, but I am only surprised that the package of measures you presented together with Mrs Mikl-Leiter also includes repression measures. So from our point of view, emphasis on prevention would be much more important. Please do not misunderstand me, it is indeed a difficult question of how Austria and Europe deal with this phenomenon of jihadism. The radicality and brutality of the Islamic State terrorist network, which is actually transferred to every living room through social media and which one simply cannot control by means such as netlocks or videos from the network, are terrifying, and the appeal to young Muslim Europeans is a serious threat. But what is this threat? – It has already been mentioned: At the heart of our society, Europe's entire model of society, is at risk. It is about the model of society and the state, and it is based on nothing other than the Enlightenment, the principles of a secular state, the principles of fundamental and freedom rights, the universal human rights, according to which the individual was born equally and freely in dignity. There are also the very substantial differences in relation to this terrorist network, which does not consider the dignity of the individual, nor the freedom or equality that a law of God over a worldly and thus the power of God over the power of the people. I do not entirely share the view of Mr Amon, who said that it cannot be viewed purely from the religious point of view. I also believe that it cannot be seen purely from the religious perspective, there are a lot of social issues that play a role, instigation, misconceptions of education, even in Europe, geopolitical gameball, but I believe that it must be discussed very well from a religious context, and without knowing it as a hetze, I would like to encourage a dialogue at European level on the question of European Islam. I think that's really important. I would like to quote at this point Abdel-Samad, who writes in the current issue of “time” that Islamism is very much related to Islam. The question: Should we fear Islam?, he answers: ‘Yes. Especially when we are Muslims.” That is, we need dialogue with the Muslim faith communities and we must conduct this dialogue, because no one-on-one translation helps. What we reject NEOS – that was a long introduction now – is that a threat that exists unquestionably is actually used to restrict existing fundamental and freedom rights. We are opposed to this legislation, and I very much welcome it, Minister, that this – at least today I have won this impression – is not It is your intention, because in my opinion, the demand for an occasion legislation shows nothing but a certain helplessness of politics. [[Abg. Amon: Every law has an occasion!]] – Well, you already want to illustrate a closed approach. This is, as I have said, already a certain expression of helplessness. The question is the effectiveness of the measures, which is why I would like to go into detail very briefly about the measures. Hetzungstatbestand – yes okay, let's talk about it! We also believe that the public concept with “ten” is a bit too small, but we are ready for discussion. Should we forbid the symbols of the Islamic State? – We already have a ban law; However, Mr Strache is not here now. I believe that there is a quite legitimate historical context from which we have it. But above all, I would also like to focus on what you did not say, Mr Minister. She – and Mrs. Mikl- Leitner said that too – put the storage of data in stock back into play. I must remind you that citizens, civil society, NGOs, parties in Europe have fought to see that this data storage is being tilted. The European Court of Justice and also the Constitutional Court expressly stated that it had no balanced relationship to that extent. The flat-rate storage of all data, not caused by cause, not only in case of suspicion, is completely covered. Your comments on Monday in the Pulse 4 discussion: You said you could imagine restricting access to the questions of terror. - Excuse me, but that doesn't make the balance any better. I do not think it is more proportionate if one makes a flat-rate suspicion of all citizens and then restricts access to suspicions in terms of terrorism. We would like to enter into a discussion, especially about Quick Freeze as an alternative. I would like to encourage you to actually examine this, and I would like you to know today what the ÖVP now stands for in relation to the storage of data on stocks. In an interview in the press, State Secretary Mahrer spoke out against it and said, in doubt, for the citizens. - That's how we see it. How do you see that?
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e5401	The next item is the speech by Mr Pendl. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e5422	Madam President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Colleague, I think that the word ‘initiation legislation’ is really wrong. We are currently experiencing a development that deeply shakes all civil society in the world. I believe that we have a great responsibility here – towards our states, our societies, our cultures, if you want to do so to democracy, but also, I say clearly, to our citizens. If we are told about television, the Internet, as well as the daily newspapers about these things, not even rationally traceable mass murders are delivered to the house for us, then we must evaluate, analyze and draw the right conclusions from them. – That’s no question at all. I think there's a multi-layered problem here. There is no question at all that we need to look at how this can be done – this has been addressed by some previous speakers – that young people in our states suddenly develop a slope to such things and feel addressed or even enthusiastic about them and make themselves available for such things, which, I say again in all clarity, is to be rejected. This is not at all a question of the general state, which is required by civil society as a whole. But I also believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we have a short-term, medium-term and long-term problem. With all due regard to the fact that a good social policy and an excellent education policy are the basis for the failure of such a young person in Austria, I do not think we can conclude that, as far as the current situation is concerned, we have to consider in the interests of democracy, but above all of our Austrians and beyond the Western world, where there is work and what our contribution is. As these discussions must repeatedly lead to certain legal provisions being put into a certain light, I would like to say to the speeches made by my predecessor: We need to consider what we can do to protect you and all the ladies, all Austrians as much as possible. I always refuse to discuss from the other side what rights are given to justice or what rights for God's will the police are given. In my view, this is the wrong approach. They do not need any rights at all, but they must be guaranteed the best possible protection for our citizens. – That’s really it. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Mrs Colleague, if we analyse this precisely, then I think we are much easier in all these discussions. I think that more than what we have repeatedly expressed and implemented on many sensitive political issues is hardly possible. There is not a single delicate area in this our Republic, where it cannot be said that everything is impeccable from the legal guardians to legal protection and monitoring of the activities. That's clear. It is the essence of a democracy that everywhere state power is in play, everything is functioning and secured in accordance with the rule of law. In this sad time – we have believed that everything has been over for a long time; it has been impossible for many to imagine once on television or over the Watch the Internet, how people are beheaded, that is really impossible! – shouldn’t we talk about occasion legislation – and I clearly refuse to do so, Mrs Colleague! – because no one believed that such a thing was imaginable at all. I am glad that we are getting to grips with this issue in the sense of democracy, in the sense of our citizens, and I think far beyond the two said ministries, because it will be the entire federal government, the countries, the municipalities, it will have to work with civil society! With regard to the forthcoming discussions, I would like to ask you to take this not without interruption from the wrong side, but to hold the discussions exclusively on questions such as: What instruments do we need to ensure that our citizens are best protected? – I cordially invite you to this discussion.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e5484	The next item is Mr El Habbassi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e5505	Estimated President! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! I would like to begin today with a quote from David Cameron on this subject: “They kill and slaughter thousands of people... they boast with their brutality... they claim to do so in the name of Islam, but that is nonsense; Islam is a religion of peace. They are not Muslims, they are monsters." [[Call the FPÖ:Terrorists!]] I think that describes very beautifully the emotions and things of which it is important to emphasize them here. We live thanks to God in Austria, where there is a commitment to the free exercise of religion, where there is a confession to a society in which tolerance and peace prevail, in which one puts a peaceful relationship in the foreground and in which everyone is allowed to act and live according to his thinking. I believe that having this is a great asset of democracy, and it is a great asset of human rights, of our federal constitution and of our state laws that we guarantee it. In view of these atrocities, which we experience in the media every day, through pictures, reports and also videos of decapitations, rapes and the like, which no human being can or does not want to imagine here, it must also be clear that we have to raise borders as politics. It must be clear that we must set a sign against a division of cultures and that there is a zero tolerance policy for jihadists. Mr Justice Minister, you have said that those who sow hatred and violence in Austria will reap prison, and I think that is the only correct answer for those who sympathize with any terrorist organizations. [[In the case of the ÖVP, the members of the SPÖ and the Agg. Julian Schmid.]] We must not forget, however, in all this emotion, that only this name, “Islamic State”, naturally creates a connex to a religion that has at least 500,000 members in Austria. It is also important for me to point out that 500 000 Muslims hate these atrocities as much as everyone else in Austrian society and that many who live here are peaceful. [[Congratulations on ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens.]] [[Abg. Kickl: That should be said loud once!]] I'm here with you. It's supposed to be said out loud. [[Abg. Kickl: This should once be said aloud by the associations and associations!]] I say it loud here, it says the Islamic community, and I believe it is called upon everyone in this country to do it equally and to express themselves clearly and to confess that in Austria we have zero tolerance for hatred, for violence and for sympathy with terrorism. [[General condolences.]] The subject has already been raised briefly: What measures do we take? What do we do about it? And I believe that it is very important that we do not pursue a culture of fear, critical eye-catching and disunity, but that we take care that the people who grow up in Austria receive the best possible education, that our religious education in school ensures that there is an understanding of cultures, that there is one another, that there is tolerance, that we talk to one another, exchange about things that are perhaps different, but that are important to us in Austria, and that is democracy and the rule of law. I believe that the answer must be to make sure that people do not find situations – unemployment, exclusion from society – that perhaps make the path to a terrorist group attractive to them. In this sense, I ask that all of us, together, make it a task to promote a climate of tolerance, peace and interconnectedness and to give all those who want to interfere with this, who want to support others and want to endanger this peace in Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e5586	Next item is the report by Mrs Dr Belakovich-Jenewein. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e5608	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Minister! We have heard a lot about tolerance today and that we all now have to make the national shoulder closure. - Yes, of course we have to. But you know, ladies and gentlemen, if you listen to this today, you might think that would have hit us like lightning. But that's not the case. For at least ten years, we have been pointing out from the Freedom Party that these trends in Austria are noticeable that there is this. [[Call the FPÖ:Genau!]] We have been calling for the Imams to speak German in the mosques for at least ten years, so that our authorities can also hear what is being preached there, whether it is going to happen there. But there we have always been described as the “panic makers, ” as those who“ exaggerate ” and “insecure. ” - No, don't! [[Abg. Podgorschek: “Hetzer!” “Hetzer”, the FPÖ!]] I remember – you can read this in countless APA reports, but also in newspaper articles –: Again and again there were conspicuousities, right in the mosques. There was an Imam in Vienna in 2007, namely the Imam Adnan Ibrahim, who then called for armed riot against state institutions and called Hamas terrorists heroes. And exactly this Mr. Imam called again in August 2014, again in the middle of Vienna, to the Gaza jihad and to the true jihad. [[Deputies Kickl and Karlsböck: Unbelievable!]] In the middle of Vienna, ladies and gentlemen! And this is the real problem we have, but you have been denying it for years! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Here I come to talk to Vienna a little bit, namely the SPÖ Vienna. Federal Party Obmann Strache has already suggested here today: You have a Member in your SP country series, namely Mr Omar Al-Ra-wi, who is very happy to demonstrate against Israel. Then there will be a cry: Israel – terrorist! This is done together with the IHH Insani Yardim Vakfi. And this IHH, in turn, is financing terror against Israel. So the SPÖ Vienna is already making some kind of wall. There would be a need for clear words. The Minister of Justice has said today that it is already beginning with the words. Yeah, of course, that's right. The SPÖ Vienna gives such people a stage! And for this there are many other examples: For example, the SPÖ Vienna has had a certain Mr. Nazar sing the election song in the Vienna country election campaign. This man Nazar, who also sang in another rap: “I’m sorry, Maman, but I’m not going to change I’m staying on the road, continue to celebrate the 11th. September “So say, Nazar continues to celebrate terror! [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Unmistakable!]] These are people who are celebrated by you in this city! But I think the Minister of the Interior has been looking away for years, and the Minister of Justice has been looking away for years. That is where it starts; we must begin to be careful, to be attentive, not to give such people a stage and not to put them on such a stage. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In this context, there are only a few examples. For example, there is the Islamist party Hizb ut-Tahrir, which has its headquarters in Vienna. This party is already prohibited in the Federal Republic of Germany. In Austria, however, in Vienna it can continue to operate. It must not be surprising to you if it is in the newspapers that Vienna is the hub of those who are recruited for the Holy War. This must not be surprising because these nests have been with us for years, but you don't mind! They're just putting on scavengers, and they're still closing their eyes. And if the FPÖ warns, then the FPÖ is the evil, the insecure and any monsters. – That’s the way it is! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Another word on the statements made by my predecessor El Habbassi. I believe, of course, that of the 500,000 Muslims, a good thing rejects this, but it would have been a little fun if, for example, the Muslim community in Austria had found clear words to do so. One must honestly say that this only takes up Sunni, and these represent only a very small part of the Muslims. But there is already the real problem: that Muslims are not tolerant of other Muslims. But if there were also a confession here once, if one were to shout out loud here and also in one's own ranks, in one's own communities, it would be said that this Holy War is to be refused! This would also be the task of Muslims themselves to influence their own people. A word to Mr Steinhauser of the Greens, if he says so much that society is to blame and that must already give us some thought. – I tell you, Mr Steinhauser, it is not that way. Austria has a great social system. It even works so great that war fighters here have committed social abuse. You know the newspaper articles about it. These “Holy warriors” have applied for social assistance several times and illegally – and have then used the money for the “Holy War”. So it is not that way, Mr Steinhauser, that only society is guilty and Austria gives these people no prospects. And I would expect you, Mr Steinhauser, to say a little more softly when you stand here and talk about terrorists and right-wing extremists who have to feel that rejection. [[Abg. Steinhauser: You obviously do!]] Explain to me how you meant this by feeling: Did you mean to throw a stone? [[Abg. Steinhauser:... that you're bothering this!]] Did you mean terror when you and your group's friends marched when the terror came to Vienna?- Oh, my God! Did you mean that? – This is also to be rejected, because this is the first step towards terrorism. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] To this end, I would like to say the following: Austria has a functioning democracy. Good thing it is. But people like you who are so careless about their words are also a danger. [[Abg. Arbitrator: That is what the right one is talking!]] [[Abg. Strache: (in the direction of the Abg. So we're not throwing stones, Mr. Klubobmann!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinhauser.]] And you, Mr Steinhauser, should also take a little to the nose, whether what happened in the middle of Vienna in January, a damage of € 1 million, where innocent people have become victims, would not also refuse, instead of waving now and finding it for good. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steinhauser makes a gesture towards the speaker.]] I know you're happy to be there, I think you are. You can only make more moves now that you want to take me away from the speaker's desk here – and that's your attitude. But this is not a tolerant attitude, Mr Steinhauser! You are a danger to democracy!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e5827	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Korun. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e5849	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear guests on the gallery and in front of the screens! The fact that the liberals do not stand by the fact that criticism of legal radicalism and extremism is being practiced, we know it enough, but I would now like to return to the real issue, namely the fight against terrorism and extremism. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Kickl: But only because left radicalism does not happen to you! You don't know this term!]] [[Abg. Neubauer: You’re more at home at the “Black Block”!]] Until recently, this debate here in the House was actually very low in level, which I was very pleased to see, also that most Members across political groups have tried to enter into a constructive dialogue. I expressly welcome the statements made by the Minister of Justice, as well as by the Members of the Government, who have, so to speak, invited us to reflect so that we can jointly find effective measures to combat terrorism and to promote terrorism. I think that's very welcome. [[I should like to congratulate the Greens and SPÖ, ÖVP and NEOS representatives.]] I hope that this will also be the beginning of a better discussion culture and common effort. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all shocked by the pictures that have reached us in recent weeks, with these images, as we now know, being part of a conscious PR strategy of the terrorist organisation, in order to spread fear and terror not only in the region around Syria and Iraq, but also in other parts of the world, also in Europe. These terrorists from the IS would be nothing more than if we started to break down our rule of law, fundamental rights and human rights when people meet here in the country or elsewhere in Europe when Muslims are suspected of being flat-rated when population groups fight one another because one belongs to one religious group and the other. Therefore: Such a course of action We should not do this terrorist! It was here several times about an shoulder clasp. If this epaulment means that all in our society – beyond creeds, beyond descent, across mother tongues – are fighting against extremism and terrorism as well as against racism and discrimination shoulder to shoulder, then I am very likely for such an epaulence and welcome it. [[Congratulations on the Greens and on representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] It cannot be – and unfortunately we have more and more such cases – that innocent people, for example, simply because they are wearing a headcloth, being spit on on the street, being attacked in a daily manner, are being insulted only because their creed is visible through the head cloth. Of course, that cannot be it. And it cannot be that young people from this society are radicalized against this society, against democratic principles and against a democratic state. I also expressly welcome the fact that several speakers have emphasized here that not only can criminal prosecution be the solution, but we need at least as much preventive measures. I would like to stress once again that the proposals and calls for government groups to work together here and make proposals that we need a very, very urgent point of contact and advice for members of radicalised or people who can potentially radicalize, where family members find signs to prevent further radicalisation. If we do not succeed, then we have the situation that we are persecuting those already radicalized with criminal law, and in the meantime, other people are radicalizing themselves. Here is our proposal clear, but I would like to stress it once again: Such a contact point, such as a consultative office, such a hotline should not be located at the police as possible, because it should be as low as possible to be able to pick up the relatives, the acquaintances, so that consultation can take place in order to combat radicalisation. And one last, because this is also very, very important: Mr Minister, you have also mentioned that it is possible to show people perspectives. I am very much emphasizing this, and it is up to the government not only to allow it to be used in good speeches, but really to act for equal opportunities in the education system. We still have the government's proposal to create own migrant classes, parallel classes. This is exactly the opposite of inclusion and collection and belonging feeling. Let us not allow children to be pushed off in parallel classes! Let us not allow migrant children to be postponed into special schools! We are also concerned about equal opportunities and justice in the labour market, because with these measures we signal young people: Yes, you belong here, this is your society! We do not allow you to be pushed to the edge of society! – This would be a very effective and effective way to remove the ground from the rat-catchers, the terrorists and the candidates of terrorism. I appeal again to the Federal Government: Get active here! Take real measures for prevention and equal opportunities! – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e5923	Next item is the report by Mrs Lintl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e5944	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! We do not want to put Muslims under general suspicion, because many believing Muslims are themselves shaken that terrorist groups misuse Islam as justification for their atrocities. If, in the current hour, we are asking what we can do against the jihadists in Austria, we must, in principle, find that a central problem is the non-perceptibility of Islam. An example of this: As a Christian, one is baptized and is a quoted member of the Church. Conversion to Judaism is also extremely complicated and complicated, but then you are officially present. There is no official membership in Islam. It is sufficient to make a formal oral confession to other Muslims. This cannot be rejected at all. There is no obligation to register, no document of the Islamic community, nothing of a kind. Therefore, the Islamic community cannot give any information on its numbers, so it is not tangible in this sense. That is why a revision of the Islam Law is also problematic, because these different beliefs of Islam are innumerable. Freedom of religion applies to us in Austria anyway. We therefore also call on the Islamic community to assume responsibility for extreme Islamic groups, for it has the inside knowledge, it knows its people and it must by all means try to prevent the radicalisation of young Muslims in Austria. Imame and Muslim religious teachers are closest to the young people and have the opportunity to act preventively there. It is surprising that the President of the Islamic Faith, Dr. Fuat Sanaç, says the following in a “profile” interview. August 2014, i.e. just recently –: “We are close to 250 mosques, 35 trade associations, 150 kindergartens, 575 Islamic religious teachers and 66,000 pupils.” But to the question of whether one listens to him in radicalized circles, he says: “We are unbelievers for them. They don’t talk to us, they don’t even greet us, they don’t invite us either, and when we invite them, they don’t come.” And that's why: No revision of the Islam Law, no further concessions to a community of faith that does not control its own confessors! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Jihadism is a global threat, a so-called Game Changer. It therefore needs close international cooperation in the fight against terrorism – with UN, Frontex, Europol, Interpol. Austria is part of the international alliance against the ISIS terrorist militia. We Austrians, however, are political and humanitarian support, No military involvement, which is not possible because of the ever-increasing neutrality. Here in Austria, one has to keep Islamism under strict observation. The Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and Terrorism must be able to control and, if necessary, intervene Islamic Hassprediger in Austria. And that's where I appeal directly to you, Minister: This urgently requires the support of the prosecutor's office. And to return the trained fighters it is clear to say: If someone suspects that he has joined a terrorist group, this must be enough reason to deny him citizenship and a ban on re-entry. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ.]] Suspicion alone must be sufficient, for it cannot be the task of the Austrian authorities to prove a crime committed abroad. A democratic rule of law must not accept the fact that terrorist acts are prepared and committed in its area. To sum up, therefore: We must call on the Islamic community to take responsibility. We must train our children and young people so carefully and provide them with a humanistic canon of values that they are not susceptible to radical currents. We need to work intensively with anti-terrorist organisations internationally and to fully exploit the existing legal instruments and, if necessary, to review and strengthen legal bases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e6026	As the last speaker, Mr Scherak has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e6048	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Very briefly, Mrs Lintl: If you think that the suspicion should be enough to deny a person's citizenship, that is not really compatible with the rule of law that we have in Austria. If, then already, there must be a crime, but if you just suspect someone, you really can't do that. [[I should like to congratulate the NEOS and the representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I think there are two essential things that are relevant to us in Austria in connection with jihadism. One is the question of radicalization and the people who radicalize themselves, and the other is the question of what consequences this has for us in Austria. I believe that one of the essential consequences that jihadism and radicalization have for us as well is the question of how we deal with the people who are fleeing from jihadism in their homelands, how we are dealing with these refugees, who are becoming more and more, because there are ethnic cleansings, war confusions and so on at home. I think there can only be an answer to that, and that is solidarity and humanity. [[We welcome the NEOS and the representatives of SPÖ and Greens.]] I am also convinced that this summer the Minister of the Interior made many good proposals in this context. Unfortunately, what it fails to do in many areas is very misunderstood federalism in Austria. It is trying to do things, and the countries are unable to comply with the quotas that were actually contained in an Article 15a agreement. That's a problem. This is a problem because there are no sanctions in this context at all. That's why I think it's right that the interior Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. What I think is also a bit absurd in this context and what I did not fully understand is the discussion about accommodation in barracks. The Minister of the Interior calls for help, expresses in an appeal that she needs help here. I believe that it is basically not the right way to place protection seekers in barracks, but the first response to this is then that the Minister of Defense proposes the Martinek-Kaserne in Baden, which is located in the immediate vicinity of Traiskirchen. Now I believe that this would be possible, but it is a certain political game to recognize that the first proposal is one in which you know exactly that the local population would be a little heavy. It was just as exciting from my point of view that the Linz mayor said: Well, it's a bit difficult with barracks, that's a constitutional problem. – He's right, I have to give him the right thing, but in other constitutional problems, nobody kind of gets hurt. If the heads of state scream at the border after an assistance of the Federal Army, it is obviously hardly anyone interested in the fact that this is extremely difficult for the constitutional authorities. Even if called for temporary border controls, this is first and foremost pure fear, and no one cares what really is the legal basis for how to introduce these temporary border controls. A short while ago on the package of measures against jihadism, Minister. There is a lot of meaning in this, as – it has already been addressed – extensive education, comprehensive education. But there are also some things that are really concrete to question. In my view, you have already made it clear today, in the context of the discussion on the victimisation paragraphs, that you do not want to make any greater efforts in this respect. I think this is very important because otherwise we would again have a cause-related restriction on freedom of expression, which I think is absolutely wrong. I hope that we have understood all of this correctly and that the contempt is not to be included here. But what you have not mentioned and what many previous speakers have already mentioned is the question of data storage, which has just been removed by the highest courts. It's clear, you're going to tell me now, you're gonna make it more proportionate now, you're gonna introduce it differently, you're gonna see that it only comes to questioning in connection with the worst crime. However, this does not change the fact that data storage is a permanent intervention into the fundamental rights of citizens, because you can easily store data and suspect the entire citizen in Austria. Mr. Justice Minister, this is not in line with the presumption of innocence or with the right to private life – and that is known to be fundamental rights – because even if you do not ask the data, it does not change the fact that the data is stored somewhere; and even if it is only connection data to be stored, they say a lot about my private life. And, Minister, I'm sorry, but my private life is just none of your business. [[Congratulation with NEOS and Greens.]] Moreover, up to now, the storage of stock data has made no contribution – we have already heard this before – to the investigation of the most serious crime and This will not be done in the future. In 2013, a total of 354 cases were accessed by the judicial authorities in Austria, with only one fifth of the cases or one quarter of the cases being convicted at all. The problem was: The EU Directive was then made in connection with terrorism and in order to combat serious crime. Mr Steinhauser then asked for a question, which was then an offence in which the data storage of stocks was used. It was 113 times related to thefts, 59 times related to addictions, 52 times related to robbery and so on and so on, but what was not included was precisely this most serious crime and terrorism, to which the data storage of stocks was introduced. Another essential point, in my opinion, is that you will not catch the backmen you want to catch, because if someone wants to commit a terrorist act, he may have to lay down a value card hand or anything like that. One last sentence, because Mr Amon quoted Benjamin Franklin here and quoted him, above all, correctly. You said the essential thing about this quote is: “Those who would give up fundamental freedom to acquire a low level of security ” – I believe that even if Benjamin Franklin is quoted correctly, his statement in this context, especially with the storage of data, is also true, because what are we doing with it? – We give up essential freedoms in order to obtain minor security.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e6144	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[10:35:38]] Current European hour
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e6165	We're now coming to the current one. European hours on the subject: ‘Neutrality instead of EU sanctions, Federal Chancellor’ I welcome the Federal Chancellor and the other members of the Federal Government. Mr Klubobmann was the first to speak. – I would like to give you the floor and draw attention to the fact that the speaking time is 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e6196	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Yes, Federal Chancellor Faymann, Austria is neutral, and this neutrality is still in the constitutional rank. This is the constant neutrality, which is also not obsolete and cannot be outdated, as Mr Ostermayer once suggested in an interview. No, this neutrality, which is genuine, we have never given up, and it has continued to be anchored with the accession to the European Union. This is an essential point to draw attention to, because I have had to ask for months – that is, months, for years! – that this neutrality is finally to be filled with life. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Federal Chancellor! Unfortunately, they have not lived this neutrality in the form of how it is also enshrined in the constitutional order and how to live neutrality. Unfortunately, you have left our path of neutrality in the current conflict in Ukraine, and you have taken the party. You have taken the party and left neutrality by carrying out the first sanctions against Russia, but also the reinforced further sanctions against Russia and supporting it – and this, please, without involving Parliament without involving Members in this House in a discussion process. You have taken a lonely decision here that ultimately opposes our neutrality. I say that you have carried this in contradiction – as a directive of the Commission of the European Union and, above all, as a requirement of the United States of America. I say that is a neutrality and economic spirit drive that you have embarked on. They supported an economic war with it – otherwise it cannot be described. And I say that you have the responsibility to do so, and that is why the Austrians, many in this country, have no understanding at all, and neither do we, Federal Chancellors. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I therefore say: It is all the more dangerous – if you have left the path of neutrality, like you and your government, and are involved in an economic war against Russia – that at the same time you give the impression of starting a serious peace mission. In principle, every peace mission must be supported. But I would have liked from the beginning that you would have kept the path of neutrality and that you would have gone correctly – what you did not do. Then the peace mission would have been credible, and then you would have had a completely different and more positive role as a credible mediator of a neutral country and state, which has also stood out from the conflict, if you enter into negotiations with Putin. So, you have to say honestly, it can't really be serious. And it is really ridiculous when one first describes the party position and then gives the impression of wanting to act as a neutral mediator. I do not think you will have the appropriate respect for the opposite side either. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But, Federal Chancellor, you have to resolve this contradiction. He's definitely not good for Austria. And I say that the fact is that our government, with the senseless EU sanctions against Russia, clearly and clearly broke the constitution. That is why we also brought a ministerial appeal against you yesterday, because we do not accept it. We do not accept that for years the neutrality has been gradually eroded, and that you continue the coin and funny. This is to the detriment of Austria – and we do not want to take any further damage to Austria. This neutrality is our protection function! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have this protection function to maintain! We have been able to stand out from all conflicts, to take a stand for no one's party, to be disproportionate, to talk to all sides, to seek dialogue, to take the diplomatic path. That should be our task. The extension of sanctions against Russia does not, of course, lead to de-escalation. This is another escalation strategy, which will not devastate the conflict but rather intensify it, and it naturally paves up the diplomatic path that we should take. Sanctions generally follow counter-attacks, and with the assistance of the USA, the European Union is directed towards a further open conflict with Russia, from whatever interests. They say it's about protecting the freedom of Ukraine. – Yes, but first and foremost, you have the freedom to protect the independence and neutrality of Austria and not to leave this path. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ as well as by Mr Nachbaur and Mr Lintl.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] I say that this uniplomatic attitude, which has been taken, is not good for the country. [[Calls and calls between Mr Rädler and Mr Podgoricarchek.]] As a representative of Austria, you have our neutral position to live and to think about, and economic sanctions and an economic war against Russia are of course linked to interests. We discussed it briefly yesterday: The Americans have wanted the free trade agreement with Europe for years. They were not interested in the fact that continental Europe is getting closer to Russia. This would, however, be particularly important for a sustainable peace process in Europe: that we make an economic area closer to Russia so that we can achieve sustainable peace development in Europe. – But no, of course, that was not the economic and geostrategic interest of America. There, in recent years, the clear strategic goal has always been to push Russia out of Europe in a geostrategic way, to cut it off from Europe. And it's not Russia's aggressor, heading towards NATO borders, no! I have the reverse impression: NATO is moving towards the Russian border. [[Calls and calls between representatives of ÖVP and FPÖ.]] This is the real salary we want to discuss today, and these are the situations of interest that stand in the room. If Mr Biden junior is sitting on the board of directors just by chance with a gas company today, then it is probably also the democratic function that led him there. – No, of course there are interests. In this way, it is important to address these interests openly, to make them visible and to say clearly and clearly: If one had taken the diplomatic path from the outset, we as a neutral country would have clearly and clearly called for NATO not to enter Ukraine so to speak, but Ukraine to take a neutral position, to ensure autonomy and minority rights for the Russian majority population in Eastern and South-East Ukraine, and not to make Ukraine a game ball of military and economic interests. This would have been necessary if one had wanted to prevent an escalation in the region. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Unfortunately, that didn't happen. One has further escalated and one has militarized, and one also delivers hard weapons. The arms business is also flourishing in this region, not only in the Middle East: The Americans and others are actively selling to the region, and there is also a permanent supply of weapons to this region. That's a big concern! You may not be worried about this, but this regional fireplace can become a fireplace that goes beyond the region, and we do not want to do that. We never want to be drawn into any military action again. We have everything to do so that war will no longer take place in Europe – and that is exactly what I call this responsibility. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If politicians in the European Union then openly philosophise towards a Berlin wall, which is fortunately fallen – a dramatic development that has drawn a line of separation in the middle of Europe, but which we have fortunately overcome – if, therefore, European politicians today come to the idea of building a new wall on the Ukrainian-Russian border, then one can only wonder at so much unscrupulous thought and politically so irresponsible rulers who carry out such insanity. In addition to the damage to our neutrality due to the wrong position, we experience massive economic damage to the Austrian population. Thousands of Austrian jobs are at stake, whether in industry, tourism, trade or agriculture: over 50,000 jobs – 55 000 jobs in total – are also linked to Russian exports and imports. Insanity is already costing us €775 million after a careful estimate; some experts assume that we will have more than a billion losses per year. We can clearly afford it in the debt we owe ourselves to another billion a year, and these are careful analyses. [[Abg. Wheeler:... then doesn't matter, does it?]] In 2013, Russia was the tenth largest trading partner in Austria, please, with 1,200 Austrian companies exporting to Russia. – Now many are affected: Agriculture is affected, meat exports, fruit exports, yes, in many areas we already have over €100 million in damage, and then the government speaks of compensation payments. – Well, who pays it again? Eh the Austrian taxpayer! [[Abg. Mr Lopatka: Mr Strache! Mr. Strache!]] So the damage by cutting into one's own flesh is really the biggest nonsense being done here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Even the President of the Chamber of Commerce, Leitl, fortunately recognises this, and he has found clear words by saying: “In some cases, failures in two-digit million-heights in individual companies are already being mentioned, which are very difficult to cope with for a medium-sized company.” And Leitel says that it is “a greater degree of damage to be feared ” by further increasing in sanctions and threats. But this will not impress Mr Putin, and it will rather trigger the opposite. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] Yes, Mr Leitl is right, and in Germany the economic operators say so. [[Abg. Lopatka: Putin can do everything! Putin can do everything!]] - No, Putin can't do everything! Much of what happens in the region is wrong, but we are not hanging on the chest of Putins or the Obamas. They hang on the chest Obamas and from representatives of other interests. This is the abandonment of the neutrality I urge. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I tell you, we have to live our neutrality here, to advance our interests to our own people. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] And I warn – this is the final sentence: The Raiffeisenbank is also shattered with sanctions in this way, where our banks in Russia have 36 billion in investment and fail. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] So I warn against further driving this development so fatally and causing massive damage to Austria. The people will not thank you for this, and this is also the case once again.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e6396	Mr Faymann spoke on a preliminary opinion. – Mr Bundeskanzler, your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e6420	Madam President. Dear Members of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Strache, you have forgotten to tell us a little bit about Mr Gudenus' statements. We would have been interested in what that meant. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I'd also generate and not talk about it, I'll tell you honestly, but I'm surprised that you too are already so far away that you deliberately leave it aside. [[Abg. Strache: The Putin listens to this, in contrast to you!]] On economic relations and the impact on Austria, the WIFO has actually made a statement, but not the ones you are using, and therefore I would like to say a few things about these effects. The WIFO has said that, without examining the penalty list and after a simple bill – there was no study, there was only one statement – they can make the following easy-to-understand statement: If exports fall by 20 percent, this will put some 11 000 jobs at risk. – This is a light bill, everyone knows the amount of our exports. Of course, jobs are not only at risk of the actual product being exported, but rather at the workplace, which means that there are 11 000 jobs. However, if one makes the effort to find out what economic impact exactly the measure has, it is not always easy to keep it apart, but one thing becomes clear by this: The goods agreed jointly after long discussions on the Sanctions List are 4 percent of the goods we deal with with Russia. So not 20 percent, but 4 percent. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: And what does that mean now?]] Why I tell you this is because the economy is not affected – no, no, on the contrary! – because the economy is not affected by the effects described in the WIFO study, but by the fact that there is war in Ukraine – the economy is affected! – and the fact that the European Union cannot simply say: [[Abg. Kickl: Now you're explaining that the sanctions are unnecessary?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Street@item incidence access is by owner only]] [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Kickl]] That is nothing to us! but it is right to highlight the sovereignty and integrity of a country – in the case of Ukraine. [[Abg. Strache:... on the concept of sovereignty!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] Everything else would make the European Union guilty not to take seriously what it represents, namely the independence and sovereignty of a country. If you are guilty of minimizing sovereignty, this is your matter; I am glad that the European Union has more morality and conscience than you do. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: You are the greatest sovereignty...! Neutrality diagnostics!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] In fact, the individual goods do not cause war on a list and the associated effects, namely first of all human destruction – 3,000 dead, more than 500,000 people on the run, i.e. devastating human suffering – and if it fails to advance this peace process and there to re-establish peaceful living together, one of the minorities towards respectable living together, a lastingly great economic concern in the European Union and thus also in Austria. That is why it must be our goal to set in motion a peace process that does not mean that one country simply gets another, but that a peace plan is respected in Ukraine, while respecting the rights of sovereignty, but also minority rights. [[Abg. Kickl: If you would say that in the direction of Washington! If you would say that in the other direction too!]] This is the only thing we have to move forward together if we also want to use the economy and the people who live there. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Say that in the other direction!]] [[Call the SPÖ:Kickl, be quiet!]] Now, whether it be a few – no matter what the party – of working for Mr Putin and his companies, we as politicians have a responsibility that goes beyond the question of a worker or contractor, namely the task of defining our policy, regardless of NATO and regardless of Mr Putin, and we will continue to do so. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: The NATO-Interesting Situation represents you!]] There are a number of those in charge of the economy who tell us that they want to support the so-called Internationalisation Plan. The Chamber of Commerce has made a number of correct proposals. The social partners have dealt very closely with the question: How can we achieve two things in a crisis situation which no one has wanted and which can only be brought to an end by a lasting peace, by means of an internationalization offensive: on the one hand, that Austria is not considered to be a safe perspective for economic trade relations in Ukraine and Russia, in other markets, especially at this stage, where the Ukraine and Russia are not, of course, considered to be a secure perspective for economic trade relations, regardless of any lists, but simply through the war, so how can Austria be increasingly exported to other areas of the world at such a difficult time, and what we are losing in the crisis area, on the one hand, in other areas, or where one cannot compensate for the development of products by means of research and development and trade relations in that area, for example, in the field of agriculture, in the field of detectable damage to direct aid? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz]] There are a number of proposals from the social partners which I take as seriously as those that our Ministry of Social Affairs is preparing. Rudi Hundstorfer has made it clear that all instruments in the field of short-time work and other bridging aids are prepared – including with regard to the necessary financial resources – and are being prepared to meet the demands of the social partners at this stage. We will also have direct talks with the social partners within the framework of our government clause, such as in these two groups of proposals, namely internationalisation offensives and possibilities of direct assistance, as the Federal Government also shoulder our responsibility. I am therefore convinced that this region can only become a guaranteed area for working economic relations through a peaceful solution with respect to human rights, the rights of democracy, sovereignty in the long term, including for our children and grandchildren, a common habitat for all who live here, with a prosperous economic development. Everyone on this side is right when he says Russia is a very serious partner, but not on the terms of Mr Putin, but on the basis of the values we represent together. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] In this sense, I would like to thank all those who take this attitude seriously during these hours.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e6619	I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants at the current European hour according to § 74b para. 2 in conjunction with § 97a para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 5 minutes. Mr Klubobmann Mag has spoken. Arbitrator. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e6649	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen in the Chamber and on the Government Bank! The conflict in Ukraine is a very serious matter and unfortunately it has such serious conflicts in itself, many problematic dimensions. There are problems within Ukraine, there are problems with the separatists, there are problems at the border, there are economic problems, there are problems that civil society has there, as far as human rights, freedom of the press and democracy are concerned, and there are violations of international law and territorial integrity and integrity of the state of Ukraine. It is, I believe, necessary and correct, from the point of view of democracy in Austria and also from the point of view of democracy, to criticize all the tendencies in Ukraine around Mrs Timoshenko, but also the many mistakes and failures that Mr Poroshenko makes. It is equally necessary to criticise the fact that NATO did not, of course, de-escalise with early sabering, but thus acted unnecessarily in the fire. In this context, however, one must also come to the point where the criticism of Russia, which sends soldiers to Ukraine, which violates territorial integrity, is to be attached here. This is the whole range of discussion that needs to be conducted. I also welcome the fact that, although different aspects are highlighted here in Parliament, it is true that five of the six parties want to make a relatively clear statement, namely that stability, peace, security and peace are returning to this region. And the only chance we can achieve, and this is also the only one that saves us from the economic damage that we fear now – because the damage is not so much caused by the sanctions themselves, but already by the insecurity and the threatening war situation – is to keep the way to the negotiating table open, to keep discussion and information channels open in all directions, just as we did as Parliament, by taking place here on Sunday and Monday a conference of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, where Russian, Ukrainian and European representatives have also discussed this issue. The role of Austria as a neutral country is precisely this way, and we have already presented it here in many discussions, namely that Austria is the mediator, that strength within the European Community, which is also committed to the fact that one thing is particularly important: that peace and peace come into the region and all the problems that exist are solved at the negotiating table. This is neutrality policy, as we have defined it, and it is also neutrality policy, such as the Federal Chancellor, the Foreign Minister, the Federal President and many others, namely those people who are in the OSCE, those people who are in the Council of Europe, and that is the way we stand. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Something also fills me with great concern away from Ukraine – unfortunately I have to tell you quite openly, Mr Strache – namely the conduct of the FPÖ in this context: All the parties here in the House formulate politics in such a way that we stand exactly between all the blocks and on the side of international law and peace. [[Abg. Strache: That's not exactly what you're doing! You're on the side of NATO! That's crazy! They're kicking our neutrality with feet!]] Only the FPÖ is developing into a large Russian arm here in Parliament, and I do not want to. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] As a neutral Austrian, I do not want you to represent great Russian interests here at Parliament's mouth! That's not okay. [[Congratulations on the SPÖ and on representatives of ÖVP and Greens.]] Send out who explains to us what Mr Gudenus is doing there all the time! It won't be the vodka! [[Abg. Blow: Talk! By diplomatic means!]] It won't be diplomacy either! In February 2012 he drove to Kadyrow, in March 2014 to a right-wing-extreme Grand Russian meeting in Russia, in June 2014 is Gudenus in Moscow, in September 2014 is Gudenus in Moscow and then again in September 2014. What's going on? – It’s not about mediation, it’s not about vodka, and it’s not about Russian literature either! [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] Come on. You're out and explain to us: What does your party have of continuing to drive to Moscow and represent Putin's interests here at the speaker's desk? [[Abg. There's a balance! 20 times in Washington and 20 times in Moscow! Please count all your travels!]] That is why I say towards FPÖ: Hands away from Austrian foreign policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e6739	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Lopatka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e6760	Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I can join Klubobmann Schieder directly. Mr Klubobmann Strache, from my point of view, your concept of neutrality is extremely bizarre. From the experts' point of view, the formulations and the evaluations are much, much harder. There is talk of “full nonsense, ” of“ completely judicially opposite. ” [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Who says that?]] Hans Winkler, director of the Diplomatic Academy, speaks of “full nonsense” if you represent the support of EU sanctions as something to which our neutrality would have been violated. University professor Bernd Christian Funk speaks of “juristic altogether”. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] Christian Funk has absolutely nothing to do with us, I tell you. If you read his opinions, you can find that these are not ÖVP-friendly. In view of your behavior, he speaks of “juristically completely beside. ” And Professor Obwexer says that what you represent here has no chance at all of being taken seriously by law. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] That is why I say to you: We have no value-free neutrality as you represent it. Our neutrality is a military neutrality. But we are committed to fundamental values that you face, namely values such as democracy, the rule of law and human rights. – This is what characterizes our neutrality, what we stand for! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Does that also apply to the west?]] That is why I say to you: We must not close our eyes before a breach of international law, as you did! Putin can't do anything he's got in mind. We must not watch and still praise as you do, I tell you. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Street: We are ashamed of the sanctions!]] Mr Klubobmann Strache, say it quite openly if you do not consider our European model of life to be your model of life! If you want a life model of the oligarchs and National Spheres, then come out and tell us! What will be represented there? – Militant-aggressive is being acted there, against freedom, against dissidents and against dissidents. – I say to you: We don't want that! We stand up for the above-mentioned European values, and we are not ashamed of the values for which Europe stands in the way of your Federal Party representative, the Vienna Clubman Gudenus, who said that he is ashamed of the values for which Europe stands. – I am ashamed of the statements he made there, I tell you! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] At this secret meeting in May, where you were, where the Stargast was a certain Mr. Dugin, he spoke about his wish for a Europe which is a kind of Russian protectorate and where the Russian values are represented. [[Abg. Strache: This is an absolute nonsense!]] You're saying that's stupid! They were there, I wasn't there, but I know his interviews, and that's exactly what I said before. You weren't there in Grosny, but Mr. Hübner, who is still going to talk, was there in Grosny, and he meant that there was peace and quiet. – Your friend Kadyrow has a system there that causes us to deal with thousands of refugees here in Austria. The reason for this is this system you defend! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: That's why the Germans no longer take up Czech asylum seekers!]] We have to bathe this here for a system... – Yes, exactly! [[Abg. Street: 50,000 Chechens are in Austria!]] Through your friend Kadyrow we get these problems exported! [[Abg. Strache: These Chechens then report themselves as fighters in Syria! That's your responsibility!]] You'll find that all right, how
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e6917	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Klubobmann Strache! Mr. Klubobmann Lopatka! The parliamentary debate, of course, also belongs to the instrument of the call for call. But an intermediate call, which becomes an interlocutory speech of almost one minute to the speaker, is no longer an interlocutory call in our understanding, and therefore I would ask to have it spoken out out of respect for the speaker in question! As I said, Intercessions are certainly the salt in the soup of parliamentary debates, but they should not become a permanent contradiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e6935	I can only tell you that we do not appreciate the situation in Grosny as your colleague, Mr Hübner, or as your party representative Gudenus, who thinks there is peace and quiet. The opposite is the case! And even when you were on the go in Crimea as an election observer, in this very bizarre matter under the leadership of right-wing extremist Luc Michel, it has said from your side that everything has gone well and fair. – I say to you: You are always in breach of the neutral position that Austria should take! They condemn it when international law is violated here, because what happened in Crimea was clearly a violation of international law. That is why I say to you: It would be good for all of us if the FPÖ would also be in this national consensus and support the peace initiatives set out by the Foreign Minister and also supported by the Chancellor by his phone call with Putin. – Rethinking You are therefore really your position, because if neutrality is violated here, it is always FPÖ with its private, bizarre foreign policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e6973	The next item is the report by Mr Hübner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e7005	Yeah, yeah, yeah. – Thank you for the word! – Mr Lopatka, so many Kadyrow calls do not help! [[Further call of the Abg. Lopatka.]] We are now at a discussion on Austrian neutrality. You may not have noticed, but I have noticed that in a debate on neutrality, the Federal Chancellor has not even taken the word Neutrality into his mouth in a total of 10 to 11 minutes. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You and Mr Schieder have used the word neutrality. I've counted: You used it three times, and Mr Schieder used it twice. But he used it only to tell us why we do not comply with neutrality. That's all right! You can, like you and my colleague, look for reasons why you are not neutral. [[Abg. Lopatka: That's completely wrong!]] He can say: We are fighting for democracy and for human rights, so we are not neutral, so we must fight Putin, in solidarity with the Europeans and with the Americans. - You said that. [[Abg. Arbitrators: No!]] Not literally, I summarized it because I don't repeat five minutes of arbitration! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You said that. [[Abg. Arbitrators: I said: on the basis of international law and neutrality! Don't twist the floor! Now I understand why you understand with Putin so well if you never listen!]] All that we have heard today are attempts to justify the break of neutrality. And then you come to the idea that since human rights are not observed, you are not tolerant and transparent, generated refugees and so on and so on. It is also particularly interesting, Mr Schieder, if Mr Lopatka says that he would wish the FPÖ to defend the basic national consensus. - That's what we do! However, the national basic consensus remains the constant neutrality. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Unfortunately, the defence of the national basic consensus is not identical to the defence of the consensus of the Austrian Federal Government because it is fundamentally different from the national basic consensus. – Now, of course, you can say: No, no, we're here on one side, we're fighting for the right against Putin, but we're neutral! - But that won't fit! We say: We are neutral, there we are between the blocks, there we are between the conflict parties, between Ukraine and Russia. But if you say you defend the values, then you are not neutral. But then, at least be as honest as you can admit that, because then we can better discuss it. Say: We are not neutral, we do not adhere to neutrality, we clearly take Ukraine's position because international law is violated, clearly the side of the Americans, because they are fighting international law violations, and clearly the side of the EU! Next: You're not talking about a neutrality violation. – We see it this way, there can be any professor saying what he wants! We believe that “neutral” means standing between the parties and not on one side. So you have what does that mean? [[Abg. Arbitrators: Come on! Between the disputed parties! That's what the government is doing!]] – I have not heard a word that someone stands between the parties! They're all massive against Putin. - Okay! You are in a media society. There are cover pictures on which one sees him as vampire, as new Hitler and so on. That's all right, if you were so far and so honest, to say: We fight against Russia and Putin, then we can keep talking. Then we can ask: Is that in the interest of Austria? Did it bring something? Then we can say: Let's leave the path of neutrality together! However, this must not be done through government decisions somewhere in the European Council's Chamber or decisions of the Federal Chancellor or Foreign Minister, but we must do so together. We must then, however, discuss this here in Parliament. If we change our basic consensus so fundamentally, if we now take a side in the European-Russian or American-Russian dispute and take part in an economic war, this is what we are discussing here! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have called up this current hour to do this. But I haven't heard a contribution from you so far. The only thing is that you say: Ha! The FPÖ violates neutrality! Those who are committed to neutrality are in violation of neutrality! – You believe because you feel that being neutral means being on the side of Ukraine against the Russians, that someone violates the neutrality that does not follow these ideas. But there is the concept of neutrality, and there is this constitutional provision whether it fits or not. And it is quite different if you act as if this term does not exist if you do not use the word “neutrality” like the German Chancellor or some general human rights issues. If we want to defend human rights and impose economic sanctions on all those who do not, then we must do so at least against 70 to 90 states! There are 70 to 90 states in the world who are setting foot on human rights, according to all the reports, Human Rights Watch and so on. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let's change politics! Let us meet economic sanctions against all those who do not follow the European basic democratic consensus. Let's do that! But then you say that openly! However, do not seek out a state based on interests that have nothing to do with the Austrian position at all, but are transatlantic and which the European Union unfortunately takes over in order to impose sanctions on it and then say: We are fighting for human rights! Mr. Lopatka! Mr. Schieder! Federal Chancellor! We are simply horrified at the previous debate on the part of the government. I can say that. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] We have at least expected you to speak to democracy in such a debate, instead of wildly to beat yourself, to raise and to say the most invading accusations: What is Mr Gudenus doing in Moscow? – Is the question of neutrality being violated when you drive to Russia and talk to the people? Is this a neutrality violation?
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e7145	The next item is the report by Mr Pilz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e7167	Ladies and gentlemen! I can put it right: Austria is neutral, and Austria remains neutral. But there is something more important than neutrality, namely the rule of law, democracy and human rights. And whoever doesn't understand that, he doesn't understand what not only are the tasks of a neutral state. Now I'm consciously starting with the USA and NATO: I consider the US policy in Ukraine to be irrational and dangerous! I consider NATO's policy towards Russia to be irresponsible and dangerous! The promise given in 1989: no NATO enlargement to the Russian borders, so that Russia can feel safe, has clearly been broken. And the most serious breach of this promise has taken place in Ukraine for a long time. That's the one side. That is not responsible and dangerous. But there is something else that goes far beyond that, and that is a white military aggression. This is a robbery, a military robbery to a European state. And we need to talk about it. President Putin has not yet said openly what he is going to do after Crimea next. But the circles around him have long spoken openly not only in Moscow, but also in Vienna at their meetings. There is an Alexander Dugin, who no longer speaks of the Eastern Ukraine, but also in Vienna – in your presence, Mr. Klubobmann Strache! – spoke about “Novorossija”. “Neurussland” is the name of Dugin, the Putin consultant, and Maxim Schevtschenko, another right-wing extremist and head of the so-called Anti-Orange Committee. [[Abg. That's a nonsense!]] They speak of “Novorossija”, and “Neurussland” is, in the opinion of these close Putin allies, a future legitimate part of Russia, where Russia has the right to use the military in Crimea to bring “Novorossija” back to Russia, so to speak. – This is the Grand Russian project. I would like to ask the Members of the Freedom Party, in view of their party history: Can you really be responsible for supporting a major Russian project in the middle of Europe? – I think that this is totally unresponsible! [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The last Austrian party to justify a Russian robbery on an independent European state was the Communist Party of Austria. [[Abg. Strache: You're worse than the conspiracy theorist Stadler!]] For good reasons, it had not been in the Austrian National Council for a long time. The Freedom Party is the first Austrian parliamentary party to remember, politically justifying the military robbery of a sovereign state. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] These policies, statements and views have not lost anything in any of the European Union's parliaments! [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Mr Klubobmann Strache, I ask you personally. If everything is bad in Vienna, and if everything is good in Moscow: Why don't you go to Moscow? [[Congratulations and cheerfulness with the Greens, as well as with representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Why go You're not going to Moscow? Why don't you go to Dugin? Why don't you go to Shevchenko? [[Abg. Strache: Why don't you go to Cuba?]] Why don't you go to Putin? Unfortunately, the Freedom Party would be capable of majority there. In this National Council, large-scale and freedom-based policies are fortunately not majority. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We're neutral. We will defend Austrian neutrality towards dangerous American and NATO policies, but we will defend them, above all, against aggressive major Russian policies. It is important that Neutral proposals make what peace in Ukraine and understanding of Russia's legitimate security interests look like and what European solutions can look like regardless of US and NATO policies that are not responsible. It would be the task of the Austrian Federal Government, the Federal Chancellor and the Foreign Minister to make proposals and convince them in Europe. But now it is about a clear signal to the great Russian and, unfortunately, also freedom of movement on the part of a large majority of this National Council. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e7262	Next word is reported to Klubobfrau Dr. Nachbaur. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e7283	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear representatives on the government bank! Dear colleagues in the House! Dear guests on the gallery and dear tax payers! Whenever politicians say: We must then also bear the consequences, then that means nothing but that workers and entrepreneurs must have the consequences, because these are the taxpayers. The sanctions are clearly the wrong way, they cost countless jobs and endanger our farmers. Moreover, sanctions will continue to push Russia into militarization, even as “Foreign Affairs” argues, as Russia’s economy is under great pressure. Now Putin is the perfect pretext for further arrondissements in the former, especially raw material-rich states of the Union of the Soviet Union at that time. Sanctions will also intensify the authoritarian tendencies which are undoubtedly present in Russia and which must be strongly criticized. In the Quasi war law, civil rights are always removed, of which we must be aware. Moreover, the sanctions do not hit Putin and its Kremlin elites, but primarily the normal, simple Russian citizens, as do our citizens, our employees. And the offenders are not only involved in the lives and jobs of our citizens, but also in the rights of the citizens of an independent, sovereign state, and I am already wondering: With what right? The long-term destruction of peaceful living in Europe is also a sad consequence of these economic sanctions. The approach between Russia and Europe has been the greatest achievement in Europe since the fall of the Wall. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ.]] Reestablishing a trusting relationship will cost a lot of effort, and we know that economic relations and trade are the best means against discontent and war. We also need to look at the direct costs of sanctions. Agriculture alone must now be supported by €180 million in the EU due to the loss of sales due to the Russian counter-sanctions, as sanctions always lead to counter-sanctions. This money must first be earned by Austrian and other taxpayers! The EU plans to also pay the Gazprom bills with European taxpayers; Money that the corrupt Ukrainian leadership owes to the Russians. How do our taxpayers get to take over these bills? [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ.]] In addition: Ukraine is almost in favour. Until the crisis, Putin's problem was, now it's the EU's problem. From the outset, it was unwise from the EU to attract Ukraine without taking into account the Russians. Ukraine is very closely linked to the Russian economy, 78 percent of all economic activities are linked to Russia, and now the EU is attracting. – What can the EU offer? The EU itself has no money. We are fighting enough with Greece, Portugal and other problem countries, and Ukraine cannot take up the debt union Europe. Of course, the sanctions also mean that there will have to be new bank rescues. You may have seen the stock price of the Raiffeisen yesterday when they had to announce the losses due to the Ukraine situation. Should further bank rescues or bank support become necessary, who will then, do you think, pay that? – Again the Austrian taxpayers. And that's not all right! [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ.]] What's going on is neutrality: In Article 43(1) of the Treaty on EU, it is clear that the Union can resort to civilian and military means for the intended missions. This concerns both general disarmament measures, humanitarian tasks and combat operations in the context of crisis management, including peace-building measures. The terms "combating operations" for crisis management and combating terrorism are a free letter, as they are now extensively interpreted. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] - My final sentence is coming soon. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] The Austrian government should have the courage to tell the Austrians the truth: Since accession to the EU, neutrality has not even existed on paper! [[Call the SPÖ: Was he?]] This is sad, because Austria has done well with its neutrality, and it would be nice if it were really alive.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e7383	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Vavrik. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e7405	Mr President. Dear Members of the Government! High house! Dear hypo-numbers and hypo-numbers! The sanctions are a necessary evil which the EU and Austria have resorted to reluctantly, hesitantly and to a very modest degree, hoping to avoid much greater damage. In view of Russia's willingness to enforce its revisionist Völkian expansion policy by force of arms, the sanctions are the only means of supporting diplomatic efforts with actions, thereby strengthening them without even having to resort to military means. It is not the only symbolic sanctions that are escalating until recently. The escalation came step by step from Russia. The question remains, of course, whether sanctions will do something. Experience with the apartheid regime in South Africa or the Mullahs in Iran shows that after some time, when the costs of sanctions become apparent, undemocratic regimes of which one would believe that they are not exposed to the pressure of the public will come under pressure. No one expects Putin to give up its intervention policy suddenly because of some half-hearted sanctions, but the signs are that the Sanctions are beginning to take hold and that the Russian economic operators have not even given the opportunity to understand it quite clearly, as they have just said, on the occasion of an economic forum in Sochi Prime Minister Medvedev. And the first demonstrations in Moscow against the war suggest that at least part of the Russian population is not willing to pay any price to satisfy the imperial desires of an ex-KGB officer. The Austrian government has, by the way, constantly slowed down the use of sanctions, including in view of the potential impact on the Austrian economy. However, foreign policy cannot be reduced to economic policy. Austria is part of a community of values, and these values must be defended. It is not about us wanting to remove Putin's system from the outside, only because it turns away from the principles of our liberal, pluralist political order because it turns away from freedom, rule of law, democracy and violence. It is about this regime, equipped with nuclear weapons, equipped with a veto right in the Security Council, which re-establishes borders within Europe with force of arms. It is about the fact that this regime violates international law to the greatest and threatens the European peace order; a peace order that also depends on the security of Austria, because the security of Austria is inseparably linked to the security of Europe. And precisely because Austria does not belong to any military alliance, precisely because Austria as a small country does not have the means to ensure military security itself, Austria must not allow that in the Europe of the 21st century. ==References====External links==* Official website In particular, Austria must not fail to see how the law of the stronger becomes a determining factor in resolving internal conflicts! On neutrality: The participation of Austria in the sanctions is fully covered by Article 23j B-VG and since the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon 2009. You know, Mr Hübner, Mr Strache, Mrs Nachbaur, or you should know. It is therefore hypocritical to propose Austrian neutrality in order to protect, in reality, firm economic interests, Mrs. Nachbaur. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Reciprocating.]] And it is cynical, Mr. Strache, to put on the neutrality to protect an inwardly authoritarian, externally aggressive regime, because one really believes in the geopolitical competition of this regime with the USA to find one's own unreflected anti-Americanism or because one sees one's own instincts awakened in an authoritarian homage of his leaders. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and representatives of the ÖVP]] [[Call the FPÖ: A nonsense!]] Neutrality must not be misused as a fig leaf in order to justify a comfortable departure. Neutrality is and was not neutralism, it does not commit to the equidistance between injustice and law, it does not forbid party acceptance for the latter. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Darmann]] [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] We will not allow instruments to be used to justify moral and legal questionable positions or to save Austria uncomfortable but necessary decisions. In this sense, we would also like to expressly congratulate the Austrian government on its commitment to the coalition against the IS. In this sense, we supported the joint request made by the SPÖ and ÖVP colleagues on Ukraine yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e7467	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e7489	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I breathed up briefly when I read somewhere, the liberals are obliged to neutrality. Well finally, I thought the liberals were still starting to correct their foreign policy position very slowly, because no party in this House has taken as one-sided a party in recent months as the FPÖ. And it would certainly not be to the detriment of Austria if the FPÖ were to be a little more balanced in the future. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] The accusations of the liberals towards the government are grotesque, because the Federal Government is pursuing the only reasonable policy in the Ukraine crisis. At any rate, not by constantly calling on neutrality, but actually putting the head in the sand and “hearing nothing, seeing nothing, speaking nothing. ” [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] The speech, in turn, is not quite correct, for it would have been more sensible if Mr Gudenus had not spoken so loud in Moscow. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] We rely on mediation. We are focusing on international organisations, first and foremost the OSCE, in order to ultimately find a peaceful solution to the conflict with their help. We are also looking for this, including conversation, so the conversation with all the key players. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] I recall the discussions held by Federal Chancellor Faymann with the future external representative of the EU Federica Mogherini, but also with President Putin, and soon to follow, I believe, a conversation with the President of Ukraine. We are clearly opposed to military options, against the Androh military force, against martial sabers by military exercises, whether through NATO or through Russia. Ladies and gentlemen! Maritime muscle games, Ultimates, grotesque and humane considerations such as building a wall, forbidding a language: All this has nothing to look for in our millennium! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] Among our efforts to achieve a peaceful future of Ukraine is also our expertise in neutrality, and I am sure that neutrality could also be a good solution for Ukraine – militaryly neutral with freedom to work economically closely with both the EU and Russia, and with comprehensive arrangements for the protection of minorities, their language and their culture. The Austrian course in the Ukraine crisis is therefore peace-oriented and therefore correct. It is simply wrong to claim that, with the sanctions, Austria violates the Neutrality Act. The law forbids us from becoming part of a military alliance and stationing foreign troops with us. It does not require us to see without fail if international law is obviously broken and Ukrainian sovereignty is violated, much more so it states what value FPÖ gives to international law, peace and freedom, obviously a very small one. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] For the people in Austria and also for Austria's economy, because you address this very often, it is important that it succeeds in maintaining peace, stability and security in Europe. And it is important that the ceasefire, which has now been negotiated, is actually respected by all. From my point of view, sanctions in principle remain a very dubious means of bringing movement into a firm position, but in this case they are a symbol, a strong sign of the EU against the violation of the sovereignty of a state – and obviously without an alternative. Nevertheless: Ladies and gentlemen, it is essential, although laborious and time-consuming, to bring about sustainable change that is ultimately diplomacy, is dialogue, that is speaking to each other. And this is what the Federal Chancellor is relying on and the Federal Government is relying on. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e7568	The next item is the speech by Mrs Dr.ck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e7590	Mr President. Estimated government members! Ladies and gentlemen. As our clubman Dr. Lopatka has already explained in his remarks, our neutrality is a fundamental element of Austrian foreign policy, but this does not mean that we must accept international law violations. Austria has always been a hub of international diplomacy and takes its mediator role very seriously. In many respects, we are a sign in the European Union and also in the international context. For example, our Minister of Justice, Brandstetter, and our Foreign Minister, Kurz Albania, are now supporting the establishment of a stable and secure legal system. Of course, dialogue with Ukraine and Russia is also a priority of the efforts of our Federal Government. Nevertheless, sanctions as a warning sign that the European Community is serious to take action against this Russian imperialism are likely to be alternativesless. It was expected that sanctions would trigger counter-sanctions, which I very much regret for our entrepreneurs; after all, we have 1,200 companies that deliver to Russia and Ukraine. Russia, as we have already heard, is the tenth largest trading partner, and I would say that long before the Ukraine crisis, our exports have also fallen by 12 percent due to the decline in economic growth in Russia. As stated in yesterday's debate, the social partners, in agreement with the Federal Government, have set up a number of support measures for the 500 businesses affected by this food embargo, on the one hand the expansion of guarantee instruments by 100 million, an export offensive of 2.5 million for the promotion of the distance market and the short-term work and employment foundations on the other. Furthermore, with 117 branches in 71 countries, our External Economic Organisation of the Austrian Chamber of Commerce supports our entrepreneurs in the development of new markets, but also in terms of third-party access to Russia. Despite all these measures, however, it is important for all the exporting entrepreneurs and, above all, for our tourism industry, to find a peaceful solution as soon as possible, which brings an end to the sanctions and thus also contributes to a recovery of the two markets. That is why I am also seeking to help the political representatives of the FPÖ not to put more oil into the fire with their appearances in Russia, but to support the government and our neighbourhood commissioner in the efforts to resolve the conflict. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Neutrality against freedom was once our deal with the Soviets, and I wish Ukraine that it will find a similar solution as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e7652	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Stefan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e7673	Mr President. Dear ladies on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! The word “neutrality” has been used in part, but it is definitely clear that the government parties here are trying to tell the people the truth. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Either neutrality exists, just as we decided it in 1955 and why we also decide every year on 26th. October celebrate the State Day, which is important for this State and also important in its creation, and also because it is part of the Austrian consciousness. Or, as has already been mentioned several times today, neutrality has been overcome by the accession to the European Union, by the Lisbon Treaty, by which Petersberg's decisions have in fact become obsolete and dissolved. If that's the case, you'll speak plain text! Tell the population! Let's create the 26th. October as a state holiday! In reality, however, you would have to let the Austrian people vote on it with a referendum, because a repressive of neutrality would be a fundamental change in the Constitution. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As long as you don't, stick to how you act as a neutral state in such a case. Let us see how this whole situation arose in Ukraine! This is never to be looked at unilaterally. To claim that we liberals would take one-sided party here is an accusation that is absolutely not right. [[The ironic hustle and bustle of the Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek.]] On the contrary! You just have to figure out how the whole thing came about. For example, former MP Voggenhuber is interestingly on the same line as the FPÖ when you look at his interview in the “Wiener Zeitung”. [[Abg. New builder: Is this a greener?]] The fact that it was not just one-sided that the European Union and NATO were very likely to light up and stand at the beginning of this conflict must be involved. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And with that one does not apologise at all for any human rights violations or aggressions of Russia or anything else, but one simply has to and simply determine how the conflict arose, how these sanctions came about. One of the key points was the launch of this passenger aircraft. There is no clarification to this day, there are only assumptions. For me, it is clearly incomprehensible that in such a surveillance, which we have thanks to the USA, which, thanks to NSA and so on, intercepts everything, we have no findings about who shot such a missile system, which covers his goal with radar. [[Abg. Kogler: Yes, shoot!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Glavisch-Piesczek]] Such radar acquisitions are recorded again. I just don't understand. Apparently, it's not that clear. But it was enough reason that sanctions were imposed here. What do these sanctions bring? – Either Putin is completely irrational, just as it is presented again and again – no idea what we have heard today for slanderous words; since you are relatively loose, I have to say, interestingly, where one is supposed to discuss differentiatedly here – then there is nothing to do with sanctions. Then they can at most cheer him up or travel him. Or he's reasonable, rational. Then we have to negotiate with him, not lead an economic war through sanctions we are being brought into. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I really think these sanctions are pointless. In addition, they also cause massive damage in Austria. And Austria also has the right to pay attention to its interests; we have that very well. We respect human rights, we try to stop violations of international law as far as it goes, but we are unable to rule in all the countries of the earth. Thank God we can't do that, you have to say. As was correctly described, with 70 to 90 states on earth, we would have to break off all contacts and put in protest notes or something else. That means that we also have interests, you must not forget that. These interests are occasionally addressed here in Parliament by government representatives: Yes, we want to appear neutral, mediating and reasonable and so on. But if the European Council is to launch the economic war, then you are involved because everything will be decided unanimously in the European Council. And here no one needs to hide and pretend to be reasonable or perhaps calming on it. That is, Austria has the right to act in his interest. And the interest of Austria is still to maintain its neutrality. In addition to having the discussion about it, then someone should say that he no longer wants to preserve neutrality, and then we decide for ourselves whether we want to participate in sanctions or not. [[Abg. Street: referendum!]] That is simply our right, and we discuss it. We also expect an honest procedure, and not this hypocritical way here: Neutrality, yes, they still exist! We are the great mediators of this earth! – But then, in reality, one sided party taking part in the economic war.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e7772	Now Mrs. Klubobfrau Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e7793	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen, It would have been exciting to hear a little bit about the FPÖ right now, what it means when it speaks of diplomatic path and diplomacy. So for me, it is certainly the opposite of diplomacy if one calls the elections as exemplary and wonderful in the elections in Crimea, together with a right-wing politician from Poland and a right-wing populist politician from the Flemish Bloc. [[Abg. Strache: Left party from Germany!]] Such details as that there have been no envelopes or no electoral cabins are obviously national. That didn't bother you. [[Abg. Strache: Election cabins have given it, and the OSCE demands the transparent...!]] But the great political context that only served to justify the annexion in retrospect is the opposite of diplomacy, but that was only flattery on the Russian regime. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Podgorschek.]] What I can't call diplomacy is – and I don't think anyone can – if you praise the elections in St. Petersburg. When you say, With regard to transparency and openness, it is positive about the elections to the European Parliament. The only one who wanted to stand there as a serious opposition politician, but who was prevented from doing so, and who subsequently complained about illegal machinations, has completely hidden you. It is interesting how you describe diplomacy and the diplomatic path. And what is certainly not diplomacy, but hetze, is if your clubman from Vienna says sentences like: I warn of the powerful homosexual lobby that threatens Europe. [[Call at the FPÖ:Since when is the witch?]] - What's that supposed to be? I mean, Do they warn of the fans of Conchita Wurst? Or what do you mean by that? [[Abg. Strache: Family lobbyists we are, Mrs. Glavischnig!]] That's the opposite of diplomacy. It is a matter of getting involved in any possible and impossible opportunity with a regime. Vladimir Putin has an open “spiegel” interview – listen to me for a moment! – admits that he is also financing parties in Europe with the aim of destabilising, destabilising, and he has named it Marine Le Pen. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] This is the colleague you are now working with in the European Parliament. Skill Do you rule out the fact that he has such considerations for Austria as well? [[Abg. I'm sure!]] I would have liked to hear from you. [[It is a surprise to the Greens and to representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ.]] By the way, as an Austrian politician in 2014 to hate gays and lesbians, please apologize for this. [[Abg. Bitch: Nobody's hot! You're hot!]] We're still waiting for an excuse to this day. [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. We are family lobbyists!]] - Sure! Warning of danger, I don't know! This is about human rights, fundamental rights, freedom of sexual orientation, that this is only once clear. This is one of the fundamental values of our Austrian society and human rights. [[Abg. Neubauer: There is freedom of expression too!]] [[Abg. Strache: I ask you: When are there sanctions against Saudi Arabia, where homosexuals are threatened with death penalty?]] In fact, we also wanted to discuss a worrying issue about sanctions. You have a lot about neutrality – you have spoken twice before, please, now? [[Abg. Strache: The Voggenhuber has a different view!]] We can now discuss sanctions and Russia seriously again. What is it about? – It started with sanctions against certain persons and their bank connections, which were shown to have something negative to do with the conflict. It's also about weapons, it's about electronics for weapons, it's about software for weapons. Do you want to get rid of this? I am very much in favour of maintaining a Europe-wide arms embargo against Russia. You can discuss other things. [[Abg. Kickl: Software can be used like this!]] But I think that the basic condition is that Russia is also actively involved in the peace process. We don't know all the information. But right now it's not like you can say it's moving to a hundred percent in the right direction. And as long as this is not the case, we must also maintain targeted sanctions with a strategy. And in the case of weapons, I'm saying "decided." No, no, no, By the way, it has taken too long for the European Union, particularly France, still not to end this issue, to be dependent on a country by means of war equipment supplies. And that's been discussed for a long time. What is a solution? What can be a solution? – I said it yesterday: For Austria, prevention and humanitarian aid are important. As a neutral country, this should also be our focus in foreign policy. Also an independent European foreign policy, separated from NATO interests, but of course also a local constitutional reform, and still the idea of alliance freedom, neutrality, also constitutionally anchored Ukraine, and of course a special status also of these provinces of eastern Ukraine, but no more annexion. If you have such good contacts and have maintained so much diplomacy, I would be interested: Know What You're talking about Vladimir Putin's plans? Could you tell us a little bit? – It would have been interesting to hear about it today.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e8005	The next item is the speech by Mr Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e8026	Mr President. High house! We've heard a lot today. Since I have heard today that there is a great Russian project where a neighboring country was simply attacked and that is why we need these sanctions, I would like to go back to history and find out who is even guilty of this Ukraine crisis. Who is to blame for experiencing a civil war there and for destabilising the whole region and now dealing with a trade and economic war that will burden us economically not only in Austria but throughout Europe? If you are looking for these debtors, there is – and there are almost all the experts who are not blind to one eye – only one debtor: That's the EU. The European Union is to blame for the Ukraine crisis, which is because it has imposed this Association Agreement on Ukraine, according to the motto: The then president, who was also elected democratic, was appointed to the knife and said: Do you want to lose your right or your left arm? It was precisely this sign that this association agreement was, because Ukraine should have given up its main trading partner, namely Russia. But Ukraine didn't want that, even Yanukovich didn't want it. You can think of him as what you want, but he didn't want to ruin his country. He did not want to cut his country off from Russia, to ruin it economically for decades, just to do a favor that is still in the Cold War, those who want the European Union, NATO and, of course, the USA to move closer to Russia and, so to speak, to encircle Russia, in the end, to do what the Cold War did not succeed in weakening Russia. [[Abg. Strache: Bilateral talks have been rejected between the EU and Ukraine!]] And the question is: Do we want to play there? I say: No, no, no, I don't think we should play there. If you look at what happened again, it was like this: First the EU arrives, Yanukovich puts on the knife and says: Don't miss Russia or don't let us go! Since he did not want to give up, one supported the Maidan movement, which was a fascist movement. They have been supported, Janukovich has finally washed away, and afterwards this coup – and that was a coup, because Janukovich, one can think of him as being democratically elected – was elected, and many EU politicians have subsequently also approved this coup. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] When I first heard this, I thought: Where do I live, please? The EU has always put up democracy and human rights. But if you throw everything overboard, just because it's useful to you: The Maidan was a fascist movement and the Maidan was an undemocratic movement and the fall of Yanukovich’ was also undemocratic. [[Abg. Brosz: The fall was undemocratic!]] If the EU throws its values overboard and approves it, I wonder what authority the EU now imposes on a country that does nothing but what the US does. The US represents its interests – and if it has to be with violence. That's what the United States is doing. It's doing a lot of countries in this world. And do we hear anything about it? Have we heard any criticism? Because I criticized the USA yesterday, “our good friends”, who also have a hearing station in Vienna and listen to us, “our good friends”, they criticized me and accused me that I was supposed to be U.S. hostile. I'm not U.S. hostile! There are a lot of things I like about the USA. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Brosz.]] But: If something happens, which is to be criticized, then it is most appropriate to criticize! That too is neutrality. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Neutrality does not mean that one beats on the side of those who just fit you, but neutrality means that one mediates between the partners. And that's exactly what I'm saying. We should have done the same with Russia and Ukraine because Ukraine was always a bridge between the EU and Russia. It worked well. And what's now? What do we have now? – Through the EU we now have a war in the region, which is not only an economic war, but also a hot war that will not be won either. Only because the EU has installed a friendly president there, who has also accepted this association – which Janukovich has not done – will it not be better there. There's still enough Russians on the spot who don't just want to swallow it like that. That's what I understand. But I don't understand how they do this with force of weapons. This is precisely where Austria could intervene with its neutral role and track the seven points put in place by Putin, which are not so unreasonable at all, and which will act as a mediator here in Vienna. We could do that. And what are you doing? – They beat on the side of those who have done wrong, and you support economic sanctions that will ultimately harm everyone. This is not in the interests of Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e8101	Last word in this debate: Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e8125	Mr President. Appreciate Mr. Federal Chancellor! High house! We have talked a lot about neutrality and sanctions today – much about what this has to do with the European process or with the process in Austria. But I would like to make one clear – perhaps it is also good that I am the last voice in this debate – that the sanctions are painful for the Russian people. But they are also just as painful for the Austrian economy. And if there are painful sanctions for the Austrian economy, we should also remember that in the last consequence there will also be painful cuts for the citizens. As a world citizen, however, I must say that – we are world citizens, you too – we have to support these sanctions and I also fully support them, although they concern me as entrepreneurs, although they also weaken me as entrepreneurs. [[Abg. Rädler: World Citizens!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] [[Abg. Kickl: Universe citizen!]] [[Abg. Street: Universal and spiritual!]] In this respect, I should like to ask: What strategy does the government have as soon as the sanctions are over? It will need a sustainable process through which we will support the economy again. There will be a need for a sustainable strategy to boost exports, especially to Russia. And there will be a need for an up-to-date strategy to compensate for this, especially in tourism, especially in agriculture. An apple a day alone will not suffice – and the entrepreneurs must bite in the acid apple and compensate for it. This is actually to reject or ask the question: What is the government doing in the meantime? – It distributes things that it has previously taken away from citizens and taxpayers. That's the wrong strategy. The right strategy should be right now and immediately: Help with a discharge immediately! Don't just talk about reforms, but bring them in. You really have the reforms on your feet! Bring You are going to make these reforms so that people can feel it in this country! And don't take away 50 percent of their salary at the end of the month! That's what's happening to these people. Although the discussions on neutrality and sanctions are important, entrepreneurship must be supported in order to ensure sustainable survival, including as a neutral country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e8186	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[11:58:45]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e8210	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[red. Note: Oral correction p. 211: Assignment to the Constitutional Committee]] Question No 607/A by Mr Mag. Michaela Steinacker, Dr. Johannes Jarolim, colleagues on a federal law amending the rule of law Consumer Protection Committee: Question No 603/A by Mr Mag. Aygül Berivan Aslan, colleagues on a federal law amending the Telecommunications Act 2003 (TKG 2003) Committee on Agriculture and Forestry: Question No 611/A(E) by Mr Harald Jannach, Members of the European Parliament, on justice in the field of unemployment benefit for auxiliary farmers Environment Committee: Question No 602/A(E) by Mr Mag. Christiane Brunner, colleagues on compliance with nitrogen oxide limits Constitutional Committee: Question 601/A by Mr Heinz-Christian Strache, Members of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities 142 para. 2 lit. b against Chancellor Werner Faymann Question No 609/A by Mr Dieter Brosz, Mr MSc, Mr Mag. Nikolaus Alm, colleagues on a federal law amending the Private Radio Act Economic and Industrial Committee: Question No 605/A(E) by Mr Gabriela Moser, Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e8419	The following template has also been received: Agreements between the Republic of Austria and the United States of America on cooperation to facilitate the implementation of FATCA (262 D.B.). After consultation with the members of the Presidential Conference, I propose, in accordance with Article 28a of the Rules of Procedure, to refrain from assigning this subject to the Financial Committee and to place it on one of the agendas of the next meetings. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. Then let's go like that. [[12:00:02]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e8452	Before entering the agenda, I inform you that the Green Club according to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure requested the written question of 2442/J by the honourable Member, put to the agenda before the entry into force of the agenda. Kogler, colleagues and colleagues at the Federal Minister for Science, Research and Economics on “Fair Trade instead of Group Justice – Head of Government with Double Game” are urgent. Under the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be discussed at 3 p.m. [[12:00:20]] Request for a brief debate on the response to the question 1606/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e8476	I also say that the request made pursuant to § 92 of the Rules of Procedure is a short debate on the reply 1606/AB of Question No 1710/J by honourable Members Mag. Mr Meinl-Reisinger, colleagues in favour of strengthening elementary education by the Federal Minister for Family Affairs and Youth. As this meeting called for urgent debate on a written question, the brief debate will be held following this one. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e8503	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time was agreed by 5.5 ‘Vienna hours’ to give rise to the following speaking times: SPÖ and ÖVP each 74 minutes, FPÖ 69, Green 58 as well as STRONACH and NEOS each 30 minutes. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who want to follow this proposal, to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. [[12:01:51]] 1. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the report of the Court of Auditors, Series Bund 2014/1 (III-34/207 D.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e8548	We're coming to the 1st. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are therefore immediately entering the debate. First of all, Mrs Mag. Mulder. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e8578	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! The present Court of Auditors report deals with the sale of property by selected insurance companies and the rental of the Roßauer Lände 3 by the University of Vienna. I would like to address some of the essential aspects of this. If public expenditure is very important as an economic factor, the revenue side should, of course, also pay particular attention, and this is precisely what we are talking about today's divestments of land. The Court of Auditors in its report rejects the evaluation system and the assessments. In principle, we also discussed this in committee, that this is done in a very close legal framework and that this is, of course, a snapshot in a very moving economic environment. However, the Ministry intends to evaluate the list of experts. Now for the property sale by the PVA, Roßauer Lände 3, and for the rental of the property by the University of Vienna. This can be seen in the context of the Vienna University's strategy at that time, for since 2004, the University of Vienna has intended to focus its location policy on the city centre university, and therefore the use or purchase of the Roßauer Lände property has not been really discussed, which is very bad from today's point of view. The solution to rent the building is described in the Court's recommendations in such a way that a cost comparison between rent and purchase of the property is to be made, taking into account all incidental costs. All measures have therefore been taken in connection with a centralised university structure. This strategy has not been questioned by the Court of Auditors either, but I believe that this is also the case. It should be borne in mind that in September 2006 an extension of the U2 towards Aspern was already under way, and with this the district is over the Danube, the 22. District, directly connected to the city center, which means a huge development potential for infrastructure, research and education. A price advantage is also given, of course, because the infrastructure, namely the subway, is paid half by the federal government, and there would have been a huge development potential for the large district project Aspern and the conditions for a university cluster. I can support this feasibility for the University of Vienna in three examples. And that's... It was opened 14 days ago the student home Donaubase, which is exactly between Hauptuni and the Seestadt Aspern. Furthermore, there is the new campus of the Economic Union, which is a success project, and this also highlights the importance of the U2 as a university railway line. And the building complex of the Veterinäruni is also very well infrastructural between two large subway lines. I would be pleased if the Federal Minister for Science, Research and Economics, but also the Court of Auditors, would also take this aspect into account in future planning and evaluations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e8627	The next item is the speech by Mr Lettenbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e8648	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! High house! Estimated citizens present! First of all, I would like to say: I am pleased, Mr President, that at such early hours of the day, in the middle of the day, we will find ourselves here or come together to discuss the Court of Auditors' reports. For my part, and also on behalf of my group, I welcome this earlier consideration of the Court of Auditors and hope that this will not remain a one-off action, because we always have important issues to discuss. I hope that we can repeat this rather than hold these debates at the end of the plenary sessions. Now to the Court of Auditors' report itself. We have also debated two chapters of them in the Committee. I would like to focus on those areas that deal with tax numbers and VAT identification numbers. The starting point was a 2009 study by the EU Commission, which identified a high risk of loss in sales tax. This study also showed a substantial sum for Austria, namely a VAT gap of more than €3 billion. The aim of this audit of the Court of Auditors from October 2012 to February 2013 was to collect the most important legal bases for the resumption, procurement and deletion of tax and VAT identification numbers. However, compliance with, the collection and assessment of essential characteristics as well as the assessment of the procedures and control systems were also the subject of the investigation. In principle, it can be noted that the report gives a positive witness to the Ministry of Finance. EU rules on the award and limitation of VAT identification numbers have been complied with. Only the procedures of the individual financial offices in the case of audits differed. In addition, as regards the entry visits of the four audited financial offices in new companies, it was shown that the likelihood of receiving an entry visit was different. In order to address the problem of outstanding VAT, the Court recommends, inter alia, to limit upright tax numbers in the event of an event, e.g. in the case of operational tasks or the death of entrepreneurs, in a timely manner. For this, there is a lack of However, Austria has so far set clear and uniform rules for companies and financial authorities. In addition, the differences in pre-notification sales tax periods make it difficult to carry out an effective risk analysis to combat tax fraud. As always, the Court of Auditors makes a number of proposals for improvement in its report. As the then Secretary of State, Danninger, reported to us in the Committee in June, a third of these recommendations have already been implemented and another twelve have been implemented or planned. I believe that this report from the Court of Auditors and most of its proposals can significantly contribute to reducing VAT debt in Austria. Thank you very much to the Court of Auditors. And thank you very much for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e8699	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Kassinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e8721	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. High house! It is quite right that it is a tribute to the Court of Auditors that its reports are being dealt with here in plenary at such an early stage of the day. From our point of view, however, it would be a real, genuine appreciation of the Court of Auditors if, on one hand, its proposals were fully implemented and, on the other hand, the Court of Auditors would be equipped with the resources it needs to carry out its tasks. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] We have already noted that this is not the case in the context of the budgetary negotiations. I now come to the Court of Auditors' report on the assessment of social security companies' sales of property, the subject of the Committee's negotiations of 26 March. ==References== Between 2007 and 2011 some €102 million were sold by 14 of the 22 social security companies in total of 70 properties. The Court of Auditors, in its report, critically notes the following – and I would like to address it a little further –: For 40 out of 70 sales, there was only an obligation to report to the competent ministry. These were those sales that were below a sales price of €400 000. This may still be approved for efficiency reasons, so in principle we would not have a problem, but what is certainly not right – and this is also the case with the Court of Auditors – is the fact that even this obligation on social security institutions has only been misinterpreted. It is also not in order that, according to the Court of Auditors, in some cases it was not comprehensible whether there was a bidder procedure or not. In addition, according to the Court of Auditors, 13 procedures have been sold on the basis of obsolete opinions. Nor is the Court of Auditors correct that four sales have been authorised by the Ministry, although the sales prices have lowered traffic values by at least 16 percent. The Court of Auditors has taken a closer look at the sale process of the property owned by the PVA Roßauer Lände 3. There there were at least some unusual features in the course of the sale process. Everyone can take a picture of it. In 2005, the property was assessed by an expert who was commissioned by the Ministry of Social Affairs with a value of € 28.3 million. The Court of Auditors notes that: that the value of traffic, if all the value-added factors had been taken into account, should have amounted to at least € 33 to 35 million. Since August 2006, the PVA has been negotiating with a hotel operator. In October 2006, however, the PVA suddenly accepted – I quote – “a subsequently modified offer of a company which was owned by a cooperative bank for Lower Austria and Vienna”. It then followed a very short-term auction with a tender period of only 9 days, to which only this company was invited by the Bank and the hotel operator, but not the five original bidders. The supplement was then awarded to the cooperative bank. What has now been done with the object Roßauer Lände 3? - They all know. The property was renovated, adapted and rented to the University of Vienna in 2013. To this end, the Court of Auditors shall: “The University of Vienna concluded an economically disadvantaged lease with the Bank’s company. For an undue period of 40 years, it waived its right of termination." The Court of Auditors' report also states: ‘In the case of the building adaptation to be carried out by the Bank by 2013, the University of Vienna waived its contractual control rights.’ There is also a purchase option in the contract. And that is what the report says: "If the University of Vienna were to withdraw its purchase option, it would in part buy back the property already sold by a unit belonging to the State (PVA) to a private company (). Now at the rental costs. In a request to Minister of Science Mitterlehner we checked the annual rental costs for the University of Vienna and received the following answer: The rental costs in 2013 amounted to over € 81 million. Just by the way: With a total budget of € 414 million spent almost 20 percent of the budget for rent, you should ask questions. The net rental price per square meter for the entire university was €12.59, and for the property Roßauer Lände, a net rental price of €15.73 per square meter is generated, i.e. by almost 25 percent more. - Who's doing a good business now? As we heard before, the University of Vienna has been focusing its location policy on a city centre university since 2004. To this end, the Court of Auditors notes: Thus, ‘() would have offered a potential re-use of the property within the State sector during the above-mentioned sale of property of the Rossauer Land 3 by the PVA.’ The finding by Mr Becher that this is very bad is now little helpful in this regard. I'll get you together. Instead of using the property directly within the State sector by transferring it directly from the PVA to the University of Vienna, in whatever form, one has sold the property to a private cooperative bank. This private cooperative bank then concluded a lease with the University for this disadvantageous lease, which led to high rental expenses for the University of Vienna. In addition, there is a purchase option for the University of Vienna, which in the event of a draw of this op- It would have led to the fact that one would have sent the object once over the detour of a private institution in the circle. We all know that private institutions can count very well: Everyone can take a picture of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e8847	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e8868	Mr President of the National Council! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! Thankfully, my previous speaker has already explained the details of various property sales of social security companies, which, when considered economically, were a total loss business. I emphasize: a total loss business! The last business you described, Mr Colleague, is the sale of the property of Roßauer Lände 3, which is now a location of the University of Vienna. €30 million was paid by the cooperative bank for Lower Austria and Vienna, and over the next 40 years the Republic will pay €400 million. So: Is this a business for the bank or not? I'd like this bank, just... I do not want to do so for fair and ethical reasons! But this is just an example in a series of missales, of the management of Austrian public real estate. This is not an individual case, but other examples are listed in this report, such as the sale of the property Schiffamtsgasse 15. Then there are two other objects to which I would like to go. Thankfully, the Court of Auditors has also criticized other real estate sales and conversions. I just remember the series of ÖBB real estate sales, where the ÖBB, a hundred percent owned by the Republic, looked through its fingers. Again and again we find the same mistake: There's no bidder procedure. There is no competition to find the best buyer. But if it is written out, then one does it in such a way that one does not take the best bidder, but the one that is more face to face, I say now popularly. I can make this clear in the example of farmers' social security, at this clinic. This is also the subject of this report: that the second bidder was actually the best bidder, considering that the income from the sale was small compared to the amount of profit achieved by the buyer by the fact that there is a cover guarantee. Social security has sold the clinic and, at the same time, has given the buyer the guarantee to transfer patients or clients there for years, with a comparatively high daily rate. So it is guaranteed a high day rate, so that the buyer can re-enter the purchase amount playfully, under the hand. I really do not understand how one can act as uneconomically as sometimes now the social security companies or, as in some cases at that time, the ÖBBB. There's only one explanation for this: It's a business with friends! And: We also know business with friends from the Investigation Committee: Nordbergstraße and so on. Often these transactions among friends are also the subject of the investigations of the judiciary, but often they end, because it cannot be proved 100% that unfaithfulness is at stake – and that is often the problem. This is also the problem facing the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors finds out that the Court of Auditors is investigating, that the Court of Auditors is giving recommendations to which I am going to address, but the Court of Auditors cannot act preventively, and the Court of Auditors cannot act penally; that is the case of the Court of Justice. Once again, I have to quote a former Minister of Justice: Not every pigry is a criminal offence. – This is all the more important, and the more important it is to monitor precisely in Parliament and also through Parliament’s body, the Court of Auditors, and the more important it is to implement the Court of Auditors’ recommendations! The Court of Auditors recommends that: firstly, it should be put off; secondly, if opinions are taken, then it is really an opinion on the transport value; and thirdly, the procurement procedures must be transparent and there must be documentation in these procurement procedures. I then turned to a question to the Minister of Social Affairs, who is, as it were, the supervisory authority of social security, and asked him to what extent he will now implement these recommendations. I received the following answer: Yes, we are trying to implement these recommendations, but we cannot force the institutions, the social security institutions. I am again faced with a major problem of the Republic, which lies on the one hand in the fact that we have disbursements, and on the other hand that we have organisations and societies, which belong to the public sector, which are in principle the property of the contributors – social security funds: They pay, I pay, everyone pays – and in themselves they are obliged to do business properly, even in the real estate sector, that the public hand, but the ministry does not have the opportunity to force them to do so. – That’s really the height! In addition, the following are added: The Republic has a professionally organized real estate company, which is very likely to sell, buy, advise, carry out these entire operations highly professionally according to the Court of Auditors' recommendations. If you ask for this federal real estate company, you will find out – that is really not to be grasped, so I'll tell you! –: We can't, because we can't, these are independent societies, and – now it comes! – we do not want to, either, because we would put ourselves in a situation where we have additional business areas, and that is not necessarily our core task. So I recommend to you – and this is, as it were, my half-life work in Parliament, I now call it easy – to really see that the Court of Auditors’ recommendations – and whether they are about public pressure; nothing else remains for us – will finally be implemented through political pressure and public pressure, so that this permanent mismanagement will cease in the real estate sales of public institutions or public organizations. This is my plea. Help all of you so that we can put public pressure on this mismanagement which the colleague has shown in detail. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e8936	The next item is Mrs Schenk's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e8957	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! This report shows once again – you can summarize it in this way – where money is left to lie in the state. I refer specifically to the sale of property of selected social insurance schemes. In addition, the Commission has decided to grant aid to the steel industry in the form of a loan to the steel industry in the form of a loan to the steel industry in the form of loans in the form of loans in the form of loans and loans in the form of loans in the form Some of my previous speakers have already mentioned it, I would like to sum up once again the Court of Auditors' main mistakes and criticisms, namely missing or not understandable bidders' procedures, outdated or inadequate opinions, which led to the selling prices of the properties being lower than the traffic values, double-tracks without benefit through hollow licensing procedures, to name just a few, but the most important, ladies and gentlemen. We have dealt very well with this chapter in the Committee, and we have also heard from Minister Hundstorfer that, of course, he wants to implement the Court of Auditors' recommendations as far as possible and take them very seriously. Unfortunately, as we know, the Court of Auditors cannot verify all the promises made by the minister responsible. This is both time-consuming and not budgetary, because that would be the result of the Court of Auditors' resources. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we all know that in recent years the Court of Auditors has acquired a number of tasks, including media transparency law, party law, new responsibilities at European level as a result of the budgetary reform, the audits of the municipalities with more than 10 000 inhabitants, and we believe that communities with less than 10 000 inhabitants should also be examined by the Court of Auditors. We know how the municipalities are financially present and that the Court of Auditors is a good advisor; I think it should also consider the communities with less than 10 000 inhabitants. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Finally, it is about tax money, it is about the money of the Austrians who are looking at by the Court of Auditors. I always say that the Court of Auditors is so much the Robin Hood of taxpayers and sees that the money is used in a reasonable, economical and efficient way. However, we have the problem, or the Court of Auditors, that, at the same time as the multi-tasking tasks, there was a reduction in funds. We have already discussed this on a number of occasions, in the Committee on Budgets, the Court of Auditors has discussed it, and nothing has happened. A number of previous speakers have already mentioned this: The Court of Auditors is threatened financially and no longer has enough money to fulfil its constitutional tasks. There have already been fewer follow-up tests in 2013 because the necessary budgetary resources are not available for the Court of Auditors. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make the following request at this point: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to ask you to agree to this request, because we all know how important the Court of Auditors is, what good and right work it is doing. Nor do the speakers tire of always praising him and referring him to the Court of Auditors, but if it really matters when it comes to the financial resources, then nothing happens. I think that is too little, please accept this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e9032	The motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e9088	Next speaker: Mr Preiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e9111	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen. I refer to the Court of Auditors' report in III-34 of the Supplements on the resumption, award and cancellation of tax numbers and VAT identification numbers. With the tax and VAT identification number, entrepreneurs participate in the intra-Community VAT system in the EU internal market. As we know, there are also EU-wide targets for the common VAT system, in particular for the award and limitation of VAT identification numbers. A study by the European Commission for the year 2009 on the VAT gap in the EU has investigated the risks of a fall in sales tax. The risk was € 106.7 billion in the 24 Member States studied alone for 2006. For Austria, the study had a VAT gap of €3.1 billion, which corresponded to a 14 percent share of the theoretical turnover tax debt. The UID number is the entry ticket into the common European market, an efficient control is therefore particularly important in order to quickly identify fraud plans to the detriment of the economy and to be able to counter them accordingly. We know that the Austrian economy is highly export-oriented, so dealing with these VAT identification numbers is also crucial. Furthermore, the Court of Auditors has above all criticized two approaches at the financial offices: on the one hand, the handling of the financial offices with the award of the VAT identification numbers, which is not uniform. Therefore, for new entrepreneurs, the likelihood of being reviewed was very different from one financial office to another. The Court of Auditors also saw critically the very different performance figures per full-time employment equivalent. These vary, for example, from 416 to 1 006, without apparent reasons. However, these two points have been greatly improved up to now. I would therefore like to thank the Court of Auditors, very much for their control and control work in the sense of a sustainable positive activity by the Federal authorities, but also for the importance of controlling and transparency in dealing with tax fraud, with tax control. I hope that in the future there will be a very effective approach. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e9148	Proposal for a Council Regulation (EEC) amending Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 on the common organization of the market in sheepmeat and goatmeat Mr Ottenschlager. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e9170	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and in front of the screens! There has already been a lot of information on the sales of property by the social insurance companies – I can certainly agree with many of these statements, there is also, in most cases, a legitimate criticism. I would, however, like to sum up briefly what we are talking about for our spectators: Social security funds must or will then and when various properties sell, and in addition there is, as it were, the supervisory obligation of the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs. All stakeholders in this context are not professional real estate developers, that is, it is quite true that we lack appropriate know-how – possibly in the ministry and also in social insurance. [[Abg. Moser: For that there is the!]] – Mrs Colleague, listen to me and I will tell you in a moment. I have already said this in the Committee, and I have already made a concrete proposal in the Committee: It could be considered that, from a certain scale, transactions can be handled by the Federal Property Society, for example, in order to bring professionalism in, establish transparent procedures and thus achieve the greatest possible income in the interests of social security providers or, in fact, of the insured. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] I think this is a proposal that you can think about, which is now on the table, which may increase the proceeds for future transactions. In this sense, I thank you for your attention and wish you much success.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e9214	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur – I see – does not wish to conclude. We come to the vote on the request from the Committee of the Regions to take note of this report III-34 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Schenk, fellow Members, on 'necessary appropriations for the Court of Auditors'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. [[12:34:03]] 2. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the report of the Court of Auditors, Series B. 2013/2 (III-15/230 D.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e9273	We're now on the 2nd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Mayer has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e9300	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! In the first place, I would like to make two preliminary remarks: First of all, I would like to thank the Chairman of the Court of Auditors and the Court of Auditors of the other political groups for the success of preparing as quickly as possible the numerous Court of Auditors reports we have. We are in a dedicated programme, we regularly have, at least in the month's rhythm, even two - Court of Auditors meetings in October, so that we can actually become up-to-date. The aim is to be able to discuss the Court of Auditors reports here as far as possible, if they are still “warm” or “hot”, not then – as with the one we are discussing today and which I am going to refer to for a moment – when much is already over, to follow up on what is said in Vorarlberg. You're supposed to be able to deal with this. I believe that the effort of all is given, and I would like to stress that. Secondly, on the request that we could not go along with: We have already discussed this in detail here in the context of the budgetary consultations, why this is not possible. I would just like to say that the objective set out in the request here – and I repeat briefly – is that the budgetary situation of the Court of Auditors should be designed in such a way that it can carry out the constitutional tasks in the long term and that we also pay for extensive additional work. This will be an annual struggle in the face of budget scarcity, we know, but nobody – nobody! – remember to weaken the Court of Auditors through some backdoors so that it can no longer fulfil its tasks, for it is too important to do so. It is not only an important control instrument for the opposition, but also a control instrument for the government. We see in the report that we are now discussing how important it is – in parallel to that, a committee of inquiry has worked – that the technical situation is also addressed by the Court of Auditors. The abuses that have happened here are really one of the darkest chapters in the history of the Federal Ministry of the Interior as far as the awarding is concerned. This has already been resolved in many areas. Of the 27 proposals made by the Court of Auditors, I think, some have already been implemented, others are under way. I know you're working hard on it, and that's also a consequence of this activity. For me it was no less important that there was on this issue a separate corruption investigation committee, which also brought to light unlikely things, things that we all, as I believe, did not think were possible. In this sense, I am therefore glad and also support the fact that Parliament is finally entitled to use investigation committees as a minority. I think that is very, very important, because in addition to what the Court of Auditors as a purely professional organisation, if you want to do so, pragmatically checks – it looks where there are mistakes where there are developments – the whole thing must also be assessed as regards political responsibility. I think this has clearly shown the case of Strasser. I cannot deal with this case in detail now, not even the 199 pages that the Court of Auditors has prepared in detail here, but I think that exactly the case in the BMI's procurement system shows how important it is that we have a functioning Court of Auditors, which can actually do things objectively, and how important it is that, within the framework of political responsibility, a committee of inquiry can be set up with minority law in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e9337	The next item is the speech by Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e9358	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Estimated citizens! The Court of Auditors, as the control body of Parliament, has weaknesses and shortcomings in the area of state aid. It is about effectiveness, economy, economy, efficiency and many, many other commercial concerns. In this report, the Court of Auditors is listening to digital government radio. The Court of Auditors has shown that errors and shortcomings occurred in the initial invitation to tender. The report, which was prepared between September 2011 and December 2011, states that there was no reliable and complete overview of service contracts. Improvements have also been proposed in the field of control. All in all, however, this Court of Auditors report shows us how, in my opinion – the client of this audit was Mrs. Federal Minister Mikl- Leitner – there was a comparison with master talk in the Adonis project after extensive and comprehensive negotiations and procedures and a new call for proposals for the Digital Radio BOS Austria project and, ultimately, the award. This report was presented at the end of February 2013. It is quite possible to highlight a few things positively, as I mean. Of the 27 recommendations – that has already been said by my previous speaker – 22 have been fully implemented. Longer-term measures are still in implementation. In the Committee, Federal Minister Mikl- Leitner described the implementation of the digital radio as, I say, a stone's throw where a lot of teaching money was paid. I can only agree with that. The fact is, however, that this government radio is on track. It has succeeded to a large extent in winning the federal states, as well as in bringing the ÖBB and the ASFINAG into the boat. Currently 86 percent of the area is in Austria and 89 percent of citizens are covered by digital government radio. The federal states of Vorarlberg and Carinthia are still missing, where there is quite a willingness to participate. There are currently analog radio systems in use. It should be possible to complete the Authority Radio Project by the end of 2018, beginning of 2019. It turns out that this project is in practice successful in rescue operations, natural disasters and major sporting events. President of the Court of Auditors Moser praised the Committee on the success of implementing the proposed improvement and optimization measures. However, he also made it clear that it is now about completing the project in a timely manner and avoiding additional costs that have been incurred in the run-up to it in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Austria has a great international comparison with its digital government radio, and we are pioneers and pioneers and a model for other countries. We are also very favourable in terms of costs compared with other countries. In summary, it can be said: After a difficult start, the project of digital government radio has landed well and safely. It is now about meeting the expectations and demands of this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e9413	Next word: Member of the Harbour ecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e9435	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! High house! I refer, in my statement, to the follow-up report on airspace surveillance, in particular, to the issue of Eurofighter. In the light of this report, I have seen that about half of the recommendations have already been implemented, but of course there is still air in this context. And we've heard before where savings are possible everywhere. Here, too, one could act accordingly. I noticed one point in this matter, and it actually alerted me a little bit. The Federal Ministry of State Defense sees the full operational capacity of Eurofighter pilots at 110 flight hours per year. Dem However, the Court’s report can be found that in 2010 on average 74 hours were flown and in 2011 only 70 hours. That is, even there is a lack of the trend. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is actually alarming when you see how airspace monitoring is set up in Austria. This condition is definitely dangerous. Another point must be made here. There is also a contradiction with the planned change in airspace. For information only: It is intended to extend the registered airspace in Austria accordingly. That means that airspace monitoring would also be responsible for these areas. Furthermore, the Eurofighters would have to fly deeper in the approach to the tent. The reason for this is a threatening demand. And now I'm asking the question in the room whether it's happening that only 70 hours are actually being flown, although it's said to handle the pilot's ability, neat and safe with the plane, requires 110 hours of flight. That means, here I risk the population massively. In this case, it is about safety and, on the other hand, also about the noise to which the population will be exposed. I really think that this change in the airspace in Austria is a quick shot. Protests that have already existed in advance also confirm this. There's been hundreds of emails from air sportsmen. And the main critical points I can understand, as I am also a pilot myself, are, for example, that the mandatory airspace for hanger, paraglider and dragon flyer would in reality mean a complete mission, because one would simply have to carry transponders, which is not possible in these sports, because one would have to carry radios and so on. So that would be a real disaster for this sports sector. This would also mean an absolute overload for the Austro control and for the air traffic controllers. So if I have a mandatory airspace here, which is increased by about a third, I do not want to know what is going on in the Austro Control if all flights have to be notified. In this case, it is clear that more staff is needed and higher costs are incurred. The question is: Who's to pay for this? I think it will again meet the citizens about detours. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Further, and that's an essential point, it's just a huge security risk you're taking. There is a greater frequency of the mandatory airspace, i.e. there are more planes in this area on the go, lower, more risky approaches are necessary, and in addition this represents a real risk of not finding proper landing places and thus causing accidents for sailing pilots who often have to work with landings on the outside. The flat approaches, as they become necessary, could lead to real disasters in the area of Graz. For example, if you need to fly flatter across the Schöckl to Graz and have a bird stroke, then the impact area of the aircraft would be in the middle of the city area. I don't think that's really what you've been thinking, and it's urgently necessary to re-adjust. There are also massive complaints from tourism – I have already mentioned it. In the areas of Gerlitzen, Schöckl, Radstadt, Salzkammergut, Hochschwabgebiet, Innsbruck and Umgebung, flight sports would be accordingly inhibited. Tourism companies would suffer from this. So there's also a disaster. I have already spoken about the increased noise pollution. The areas of Nockberge, Klagenfurt, Graz, Vienna, Salzburg and Linz are affected. We therefore call for the entry into force of the Council of Ministers on 13 November. ==References== This is unforgivable, dangerous and unnecessary. We ask that this be renegotiated in appropriate negotiations. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] My appeal therefore: Please support this request! In Austria, the airspace is large enough for everyone. We take into account security, quality of life and economic interests! Let's start a new and fair discussion! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e9532	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Hafenecker is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e9593	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e9615	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. In the Committee of Inquiry, we have worked in detail on the awarding practice of the Federal Ministry of Internal Affairs in the field of public service broadcasting. And criminal investigations are still under way. The procedure is still not completed. There is a reasonable suspicion that there have been lubricating payments – Motorola, Alcatel. There was a change of supplier, first ADONIS, then Tetron. This change has been carried out by highly dubios. And as I said, The investigations are still under way, although the incidents have been in progress for more than ten years, namely eleven years, as I mean. You see, the control work in Parliament is extremely laborious. The Court of Auditors' audit work has been carried out relatively timelyly with a first report on ADONIS, where the key criticisms that the second Court of Auditors report, which is the subject of the debate today, has already been expressed. The central criticisms are that a ministry, in this case the Ministry of the Interior, decides to create a new radio possibility for the rescue units for the police, as the mobile phone is not so safe and may not work in the event of disasters, can also be heard more easily and so on. That is a very good intention. However, the various rescue organizations, the various police departments, are mostly in the Federal Republic of Germany. of which, in In itself, it would be necessary to contact the federal states immediately and to ask: How do you imagine that? Are you interested in that? Are you taking part in this project? How does it look with the costs? Since the majority of the federal organizations are concerned, in the sense of a common house mind, this question would be equally obvious at the beginning. - Everything is not happening! Holladrio, in the ministry, in the cabinet of the decision, new government radio, whether or not the federal states are involved. After these at least eleven, twelve years, we are now ready for almost all the federal states to participate. In my opinion, two more are missing, and perhaps the President will correct me. But the costs now make up a multiple of what was originally accepted at the start of the project. The main problem lies in the fact that a ministry decides on a new system without being clear about it and without questioning exactly how much the whole project is actually financial. Then the budget is scarcely budgeted in the ministry, and the technical expenses are real, but the organizational needs are in a financial range, which is a multiple of what one originally expected. In addition, the switch of the provider, away from ADONIS to Tetron, away from a consortium where Siemens was involved, to a consortium where Motorola and Alcatel are essential, also the Telekom. And all this costs and costs! The current Minister of the Interior – it is, I believe, the fourth Minister of the Interior who is responsible for this project; Mrs. Fekter, you were once, so to speak, the head of the ADONIS or Tetron project, you may be able to tell a special history of suffering – you have said that there have been shortcomings, you are now trying to get to the Ministry. However, this is at the end of the project, instead of having done it properly at the beginning, as it is called professionally. At first, the cabinet under Minister Strasser was at work, and there was a lot of things going in the wrong direction, which we now have to compensate for with millions of taxpayers. I am grateful to the Court of Auditors for controlling very quickly. I am grateful for the second report. However, we both have a problem, Mr President: If we're at work here, the milk's already been shed. The question is how do I manage to establish accompanying control in very, very important projects – I am in favour of the fact that there is an authority radio that works and saves life – how can I ensure from the outset, through accompanying control, that it is not repeated, that projects are properly budgeted from the outset, that they are properly thought out technically, that they are properly organized, federalistic with the federal states. And that's where I say again, this is the task of our Members. Otherwise, accompanying control and timely discussion are not possible. We Greens have already responded at the beginning with control questions, as is the case with the government radio. However, we have not been taken seriously, that is the problem. That's why, in the end, my appeal: You're going to have to do a lot of other projects. Ladies and gentlemen, please speak to the opposition in good time, or involve us, because we have information about what is going wrong! We have information where maybe something kind of business is going on. But most of the time you beat our warnings in the wind, virtually turn off our help, SOS call and ignore it. Please, go up. You descend from the high Ross of the government parties, go to the normal parliamentary control work! Then something like Tetron won't repeat. That's back. once an appeal, and I don't get tired. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e9681	The next item is Mrs Schenk's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e9702	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! A word on the statements made by my previous speaker, by the President of the Court of Auditors and by Mr Elmar Mayer, who said that he was in favour of what was in the resolution. – It’s very nice that you stand by it. But it would have been better if you had stood up, because then it would have brought something to the Court of Auditors. Today, the endless history of digital radio comes back to the House through this Court of Auditors report. There have already been many initiatives here, from urgent questions on the Committee of Inquiry to several other committees, this issue has been dealt with widely. It is also – Mr Moser mentioned it earlier – after Strasser, Platter and Fekter the fourth minister has already dealt with this matter. A parade example or a typical example is this digital radio, in my opinion, for how money is wasted, how money is destroyed, which is missing from the ministry on the other hand. We only need to keep in mind the closures of police inspections that occurred a few months ago, which no longer bring security, but less security. We see the current problem now also in the area of asylum seekers and refugees, especially in Hospital am Semmering. This was also very present in the media and will also be discussed at the next item on the agenda. So to lock there, as to save and argue that by closing police inspections there is more security, that is certainly the wrong way, and we certainly cannot agree to that. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] But where I am right about Mr Mayer and I agree with him, our committee is working very well. We are a very hard-working committee. I believe that the Court of Auditors is most often meeting, even with the Court of Auditors, there is good agreement, and above all the efforts of the ÖVP and the SPÖ to ensure that ministers are always invited to the meetings, because we need ministers to work out the Court of Auditors' reports. I do not always succeed, but I would also like to thank you for the willingness and efforts of the ministers to get to the committee. We discussed yesterday also in the course of a short round how we could perhaps work out the reports more quickly or put aside old reports, in order to preserve the actuality of the reports. The Court of Auditors is making a lot of reports – exactly, Mr Zanger has also proposed this – but unfortunately it is no longer up-to-date when we are dealing with them here in the House, such as in this report, which dates back almost ten years to the beginning of the events. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vocal]] So these are all the points we still have to deal with. We work very well with the President of the Court of Auditors and the Court of Auditors with Parliament. I think that's enough praise now. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e9760	Next word: Mr Hell. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e9781	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The implementation of the project of a digital government radio called the Minister of the Interior in the last Committee of the Court of Auditors a stony way, and this stony path can also be seen by reading the 204 pages of the Court of Auditors' report which is under discussion today. A committee of inquiry – Mrs Moser and Mr Mayer have already pointed out – has already tried to unravel the interweaving of the advisory agreements, the lobbyists and corporations and, above all, the action of then Minister of the Interior Ernst Strasser in the Ministry of the Interior. The Court of Auditors has already initiated an examination of the requirements for the tendering, awarding and handling of the public service radio in 2003 on the request of several Members. There were already massive criticisms of the Court of Auditors at the time. Many failures, incomprehensible decisions and awards have already been addressed by previous speakers. I would like to draw from the Court of Auditors' report the area in which it concerns the involvement of countries and other needs. Under the federal agreement, the countries bear the construction costs of the digital radio sites and subsequently the running operating costs. However, the BMI failed to reach binding agreements with the countries other than the federal state of Tyrol prior to conclusion of the contract. The Court of Auditors has already recommended in its preliminary report that such contracts should be settled in advance. Unfortunately, this recommendation has not been implemented. That is why we have a situation which I would like to present to you on the basis of the Federal State of Lower Austria. An agreement was reached with the Federal State of Lower Austria in 2005, which is after the project had already started. The aim was to make the radio network available to the country and BMI by the end of 2008. Send sites have not been agreed. In the course of the detailed network planning and site determination, it was found that the number of necessary locations in Lower Austria will significantly exceed and the average cost per site doubled. As a result, the State of Lower Austria declared a construction stop and in addition had to be transferred money from the BMI towards Lower Austria in order to ensure further alignment of the government radio. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that digital radio is an important and necessary institution for the safety and cooperation of blue light organisations. However, the execution of this project shows poor project handling and lack of control management.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e9827	Next, Mr Magistrate. Hanger to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e9859	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In my statement, I too deal with the Court of Auditors' report on awarding practice in the Federal Ministry of Internal Affairs with the Schwerpunk Digitalfunk. My predecessors spoke almost exclusively of the topic of digital radio. In the Court of Auditors' report, this was an examination of the overall value of procurement. The basis for the debate is a comprehensive Court of Auditors report, but of course also the opinion of the Federal Ministry of the Interior. As has already been said, this opinion shows that most of these recommendations have already been implemented. At the same time, however, it should also be said that the Federal Ministry may, of course, have a different view in some respects and that, of course, not all the Court of Auditors' recommendations are also the right recommendations. Many recommendations have been implemented, but, as has been said, there are other views, for example, in the assessment that public security interests at the Federal Ministry of the Interior have to be taken into account that a relatively small sample has been taken, which may be problematic for a representative statement. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vocal]] I would like to re-examine my comments on the public service radio. When discussing the subject, it is very important to stress that – and this has already happened to my previous speakers – a milestone has been created in the Republic of Austria with the installation of this government radio system. This is about communication between the blue light organizations. For the first time, and already implemented in many federal states, in the event of natural disasters, the Blue Light organizations Red Cross, Fire Department and police can communicate with the authorities at a frequency. That's hugely important. Secondly – and I would like to do this more precisely –: We also create high network availability where it has been introduced. Mrs. Moser, cell phone reception sometimes does not help either. I know rural regions where the phone doesn't work. And since, at the government radio stations, we have very high network availability. Because even if you go to a mountain or are in nature, it is important to be able to reach 122, 133 or 144. This creates high network availability, which is also a little example of mobile communications, for the broadband offensive, because of course we want these services also in the rural regions. Thirdly, we have, and confirming this, a very simple operation of these new devices, these digital radios. That too, I believe, is an added value that you can say. Finally, the appeal also from my side: I think we have achieved the goal if we have a 100% net coverage in Austria. It is not yet that far, as the Federation and the countries are still required, but I think we should always have this objective in mind. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e9916	As the last speaker on this item on the agenda, Mrs Gessl-Ranftl spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e9938	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! High house! I have followed this discussion very closely and, as the last speaker, summarized this item on the agenda: The audit of the Court of Auditors took place between September and December 2011. Some of my previous speakers have spoken in terms of awarding at the Ministry of the Interior. In my opinion, however, it is also important that the Court of Auditors report consists of two parts: On the one hand, this is about the awarding practice, on the other hand, about digital radio – which is particularly important for the workers to be on site quickly to help people to give the people in our home country the necessary security. The digital radio, for example, has shown what it can do in the Styria. I am particularly addressing the flood catastrophes, the avalanches and the large sports events in Schladming and Spielberg, so in the constituency from which I come. Today the name of Strasser has already fallen, and especially between 2000 and 2006, also in the era Strasser, there has been a cost explosion in the blue-light radio, which was certainly unique. I also address the volume of procurement. In this context, the Court of Auditors has strongly criticised that the BMI did not have a complete and reliable overview of its procurement volume. In more than half of the cases selected and reviewed by the Court of Auditors, there were shortcomings in compliance with internal requirements, in particular lack of comparative offers and price fairness checks, as well as insufficient documentation. Since I see that the lamperl is already flashing and the two minutes of my speaking time are over, I would like to stress positively that the BMI has asked for a comprehensive examination by itself, which is the current Minister Mikl- Leitner has concluded and has terminated both the contract with the consultant firm and those with the advertising agency. The Court of Auditors' criticism has been taken seriously, the necessary consequences have been drawn from it, and we must work together to ensure that this does not happen again in the future, in the interests of Austrians, in the interests of our taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e9986	No one is reporting on this. I will close this debate. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure to take note of this report III-15 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign. – This has been adopted unanimously. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hafenecker, colleagues, on the reorganisation of the airspace. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give a sign. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. [[13:08:29]] 3rd. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the report of the Court of Auditors, Series B. 2013/3 (III-16/231 D.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e10041	We'll get to 3. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, I would like to speak to Mr Rosenkranz for a word on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e10077	Mr President. For business treatment: In accordance with Article 18(3) of the Rules of Procedure, I request the presence of the Federal Minister for the Interior. This report deals with asylum management issues, especially in three federal states, and what has been wrong since 2004. The question of what you are doing with asylum seekers in Austria is of utmost interest on a daily basis. There's a lot of things there. The Federal Minister is negotiating. She tells us always about the media a lot about what's going to happen. Especially in this item on the agenda, which will also address the liberals, it is essential that the Minister of the State should consult us on these issues.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e10107	Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Lopatka, also spoke on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e10131	I have assumed that the Group of the Party of European Socialists is also familiar with the fact that a decisive meeting in Carinthia has been held today, not by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, but by the head of state of Carinthia. That was to all media today. The solution to the question is, I believe, in the interests of the Austrian population. That there are open questions, you have been able to read the media in the last few days. There's no need for an acrybian approach, that's all known. I would therefore ask you to withdraw from this request once again, because it is a very crucial question how in the next few months – and you know the storm of refugees, which is currently given – this accommodation can be guaranteed. This is only in agreement with the federal states. I should therefore like to ask you once again to withdraw from this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e10165	A further word on business management: Mr. Klubobmann Mag. Arbitrator. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e10189	Mr President. First of all, I would like to add to Mr Lopatka's point of view, namely that the Minister of the Interior is on the road to negotiation on one of the key issues at the moment, which has also been discussed here, and, I believe, in all of us, that these negotiations will lead to a reasonable end and will not be interrupted, namely by such a 'creation'. Secondly, I would also like to refer to the use of parliamentary treatment. We are in the middle of the discussions on the Court of Auditors' reports, and there is, in fact, parliamentary planning that the President of the Court of Auditors is at our disposal for discussion – whatever he does and what we are pleased with. I'd stick to this path.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e10221	I do not see anyone who wants to make a word on business treatment. Mr Rosenkranz has tabled a request. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, if this request is not withdrawn, it must be put to the vote without delay. Therefore, let this request for the participation of the Federal Minister for the Interior vote at this meeting. Whoever is in favour of this request, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. This request is therefore rejected. We are continuing and going into the debate on item 3. The first is Mrs Mag. Mr Greiner. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e10273	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. High house! This report was presented to Parliament in October of the previous year. A chapter of it deals with refugee care in three federal states. When this report was presented again, it was inconceivable, unforeseeable, how dramatic and how drastic the situation in Syria will be to the fore, which poses significant problems for us today. For the month of September alone, up to 3 000 jobseekers are expected to receive protection in this country. What is the situation in Ukraine like? Is there a new escalation? Is a similar wave of refugees threatening? Neighbor countries such as Poland, for example, have already exhausted their capacity to absorb. Asylum applications from this area, Ukraine, will increase by 50 percent this year compared to last year. But now to the report here. I would like to draw up three points which the Court of Auditors has considered. The Court of Auditors has criticised the fact that the costs of refugee care have not been adjusted for years. This adaptation has now been made. In refugee care, the federal states sometimes serve various organizations entrusted with the tasks. That was exactly the criticism of the Court of Auditors: A trust alone is actually too little, it needs a concrete performance agreement in which the objectives and the specific performance of the respective organisations would be described. First, they would then be comprehensible, second, it would also be comprehensible how the public funds are allocated and used. Criticism was also practised in the accommodation of refugees mainly in organized, large institutions that are more cost-intensive than smaller individual care facilities. What can you do better? Perhaps it would be a central solution in the now very hot debate on the accommodation of refugees in large institutions to address this recommendation of the Court of Auditors, to put more refugees in individual institutions, because they are more favourable and manageable, rather than in large institutions. [[Abg. Singer: Businessmanship!]] Not only would this be interesting from the cost side, but it might also help to achieve an increased acceptance in the population. One more understands when smaller groups are cared for in one place than when hundreds of refugees come to a place and are cared for there, which can naturally cause diffuse fears. [[Abg. Singer: Understandable!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In international crises, as they are now taking place, Austria has humanitarian obligations and has tasks to fulfil. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Singer.]] It is the cold season ahead, and we have the obligation to grant decent accommodations to those refugee families that come to us. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e10328	The next item is the motion for a resolution by the honourable Member. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e10350	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! One thing before: For us as ÖVP, it is a humanitarian duty to provide security and protection to people who have to leave their home country. This includes, on the one hand, providing accommodation, but of course, also integrating people in the best possible way during and after the asylum procedure. As with many topics, however, things are often easier in theory than in implementation, in practice. This has to do with many aspects, for example, with deep and unfortunately also often used prejudices, with different administrative powers, with lack of communication. And, of course, it has to do with not or not to this extent predictable developments. In 2004, when the current basic supply agreement was agreed, who would have thought of armed conflicts in Syria and Ukraine to this extent, with huge flows of refugees? From Syria alone – with a total number of 2.5 million people – almost 3,500 people fled to Austria this year, and by September about 1,500 more people have come to Austria this year than before. This, of course, presents the asylum sector with unmistakable challenges. But before some may think: Aha, there are so many, we are closing the borders!, you should perhaps create a relationship: The UNHCR has a total of 51.2 million refugees for the end of 2013. Nine out of ten refugees live in developing countries, 50 percent of refugees are children. The greater part of the people on the run are internally refugees. This means that they remain in the country of origin and are therefore not protected by international agreements. What do I want to say? With all the difficulties and shortcomings that refugee care has to deal with in Austria, it is certainly manageable, and there are also some solutions and proposals on the table. The Court of Auditors has reviewed refugee care in the countries of Vienna, Styria and Salzburg during the period from autumn 2011 to January 2012 and - I would say - has found a lot of improvement proposals and possibilities. The recommendations addressed to the Federal Government, such as, for example, that has already been mentioned, the increase in the costs of individual accommodation, the establishment of an arbitral tribunal or, for example, the establishment of minimum standards for the control of those organisations responsible for consulting, These recommendations have already been implemented. Some or many recommendations have also been made to the countries. The problem, which still exists, has already been said of the often, is the division and accommodation of refugees. Although Austria is not in a bad position in the international comparison – we are among the strongest countries in Europe –: From the commitment of the countries to fulfill the agreed quotas to the actual realization, it is a rocky and in many cases unsuccessful way. This is linked, among other things, to these above-mentioned reasons, such as prejudices or various competences. The Minister of the Interior is sitting – and this is what everyone has heard – together with the refugee representatives of the countries in Klagenfurt today. That is why the examination of this Court of Auditors report is also particularly appropriate in order to discuss the situation in order to develop concrete solutions and to re-adjust basic services. The Court of Auditors also criticises, in its report, that institutional care is much more used than private quarters, which is also not reasonable from the cost side. In other words, the solution that is now being developed must be a feasible one, a real key in which it is also more closely seen to find more private quarters. For example, I can imagine that church institutions, such as parishioners or monasteries, which often have suitable space, provide more space for their Christian commission. I think our Minister of the Interior will work together with her own industriousness with the countries – and I think that is important: truly countries, communities and federations together – on a solution. Because our goal must definitely be to accommodate them, in part, really heavy-troumatized people as fast and as best as possible. Everything else would be unworthy and not in line with the humanist claim that is crucial to us by the ÖVP.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e10411	The next item is the report by Mr Kunasek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e10432	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to thank you for the detailed report. In my speech, I would also like to focus on the asylum and refugee sector, because this report, as a whole, already creates a significant picture of refugee care in Austria, especially in Salzburg, Styria and Vienna. Much of what is contained in this report has been carried by us liberals over and over again for years, and we have also warned of a situation such as has already been mentioned by my previous speakers. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) If you look out here today and say that the division might be better, or if Klubobmann Lopatka turns out and says you have to reach agreement with the countries, then I wonder where this agreement was made, for example, in Hospital am Semmering, where really in a night-and-nebula action the following happened: On Monday the community was informed that 250 refugees will arrive on Thursday in the district of Steinhaus. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, the district Steinhaus currently has 198 inhabitants. However, there is less daily, because now of course many are leaving this part of the village. Here I ask myself, ladies and gentlemen, by SPÖ and ÖVP, who are speaking here today in a Sunday speech of better division and agreement where agreement has remained in this case! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Much of what has already been said today, and much of what has been pointed out in the very detailed and good report of the Court of Auditors, has already been said by us. But I believe that we have to see a situation as a whole, where we unfortunately have to recognise today – and it is not the first time we have been talking about asylum in this House – that many things that we have agreed with and have also been carried out by us, such as the Dublin II agreement, will not be implemented in many areas. If you also look at requests from the Federal Minister, who is unfortunately not here today, from 2012, according to which we have had 17 413 asylum applications in Austria, but only 1 030 “Dublin” transfers/ readmissions, you already ask yourself, as a responsible politician, where the observance of these conventions takes place here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I say it quite openly: We cannot recognize it in many areas. Let us consider very briefly, in a few sentences, the Styria; the Styria was also explicitly dealt with in this report. There seems to be something going wrong in this system. It is often felt – and I say this quite openly here – that it is an asylum industry that asylum has also become a workable business. If, on average, 50 to 90 percent more is paid in the Styria for consulting costs of various organizations, NGOs, than in Vienna and Salzburg, then you already wonder what is going on there. It is, of course, the state government, but it is, please, very nice, also here, namely, the Styrian Members in the House, who are calling on us to cooperate in solutions that solve this problem as a whole. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, one still to hospital at the Semmering – it is really significant –: We have only held a discussion here in recent months on the closure of police services. There have also been closed down by the Interior Minister Posten in a beautiful driver's manner. But the i-tumble on the whole hospital-am-semmering discussion is probably that in May the police station will be closed there, and now, in September, 300 refugees will find place there. Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We also have a responsibility to live here towards the population. One thing I can also announce from this speaker's mouth: We are 100 percent behind the population of Spital am Semmering, 100 percent but also behind the municipal council, namely the representatives of all couleurs, behind all councillors, the SPÖ mayor, the ÖVP vice-president and also the liberal councillors who are certainly unable to support this procedure, which has been demonstrated here. Full support from the FPÖ!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e10529	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Kunasek is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e10593	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e10614	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! Theme change: This Court of Auditors report also contains a report on the transparency of benefits under income tax law. In view of the tax reform debate, this too is a highly topical issue, but at the same time also a mandatory reading for all – and this is clear from this report – who are interested in simplifications and red tape in tax law, especially in income tax law, because this report refers only to this. It is shown that there are 558 tax benefits under tax law, that these result in a loss of approximately €9 billion and that there is an annual effort of about €73 million. If this is calculated for full-time staff, this means about 1 846 full-time staff, which corresponds to about 30 percent of the total expenditure of the staff in question in the Federal Ministry of Finance and in the financial offices. You have to imagine that! These are staff members, ladies and gentlemen, who can be much more urgently needed where tax audits are concerned, and where, as the practice of tax audits always shows, substantial tax collection is possible. But let me give you some of the highlights of this report, some of the criticism points a little closer. The main source of tax benefits is the support report. But the funding report - and we have known this for a long time - is actually a very incomplete report, because the source is a very incomplete one; on the one hand, because the information given there is only estimates and calculations, and because there is a lack of a uniform definition of what we want to understand by means of a tax advantage at all. There are very important things missing: Consider, for example, environmental tax advantages such as the promotion of company cars! But of course you also wonder why the child allowance is not included under § 106a income tax law, and more so. So if these €9 billion are a lower limit, then this is not the responsibility of the Court of Auditors, then that is because we have essentially missing transparency here! That is the first important message of this report. Second: However, there is also a lack of these fiscal advantages, concrete targets and measurable criteria, which means that there are no standards for whether we achieve the objectives that we set ourselves with these numerous subsidies – 558, once more – at all. If you look at these target formulations, you will most of the time be able to find out: They are missing or held in such a general way that evaluations on this basis cannot be carried out at all. Apart from that, there is no such evaluation at all because obviously the Ministry of Finance or all those who are always preaching administrative reform have no interest in carrying out such evaluations at all. However, there is also a lack of effect orientation, there is a lack of effect analysis, i.e.: Do you even achieve what you want to achieve with these tax benefits? Or is money just being put in the wind here, written into smoking? The Court of Auditors' report also addresses another important point from my point of view, namely the dependence of income on many tax benefits. For many benefits, it does not matter whether you pay tax, whether you pay wage and income tax at all, or how high the wage and income tax payments are. This applies, for example, to allowances and much more, but also to the tax benefit of 13th and 14ths. Monthly salary. It would have been necessary, from the point of view of simplification, to go a little further in this report. However, the Court of Auditors shall also identify so-called cost drivers, in particular in the context of legislation which is not clearly applicable. I would like to highlight two examples: the tax deductibility of childcare facilities and the amount of child allowance. The Court of Auditors is dealing with both of them in great detail, and there the complex implementation, the high administrative burden and the uncertainty of the legal users. It must be imagined that 96 000 inspections had to be carried out in 2009 alone with regard to the number of checks only in the case of children's allowance due to the lack of information in the applications, namely the social security number! In 2010, there were 55 000 reviews. Well, you're already wondering about the meaning of such legal standards! Against this background – and why do I mention these two examples? – I would like to address the concept of the ÖAAB on tax reform, because ÖAAB wants to link exactly where the Court of Auditors criticises. He wants to extend the tax exemption to € 7 000 per child. [[Abg. Tamandl: That's why you have to criticize the thing...!]] This concept has come to your attention, Mrs Tamandl! [[Abg. Tamandl: That's why we want to simplify it!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] However, they also want to have the possibility of extending child care facilities. [[Abg. Tamandl: Yes, that's why we want to simplify it!]] They also want to have the deductibility of costs for music school, language holidays, holiday camps. [[Abg. Tamandl: Thank you for making this known!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] That means that you want to prolong these complicated tax exemptions, but on the other hand, when it comes to counter-financing, talk about administrative simplifications! It can be seen that administrative simplifications in your eyes are no longer lip recognitions that They have no interest at all in changing these complex administrative rules in the form of tax advantages. [[Abg. Tamandl: That's not true! We can simplify this, Mr President.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e10732	The next item is Mrs Schenk's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e10754	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! This Court of Auditors Report on the refugee problem shows that the situation is different from that of communication. When I recall the statement of Mrs. Federal Minister Mikl- Leitner from the last committee, where she said that Austria is a model in Europe as far as refugee care is concerned, I have to doubt it very much. The asylum accommodation in Austria is currently at the capacity limits. However, the view of the world's crisis areas and war zones also shows that this flow of refugees will not tear off. They speak of about 50 million people worldwide. In 2013, there were 17 500 asylum applications in Austria. In 2014, 26 000 asylum applications are expected, ladies and gentlemen. The problem is the accommodation that we discussed earlier and which we have also discussed in recent weeks, especially the problem of the non-communication of the Federal Ministers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] This accusation must be made because you cannot enter into a rental agreement with a hotel overnight and then place asylum seekers there without talking to the mayor without talking to the people without doing any educational work here, and simply talking about the people. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] She has already shown this in the course of the closures of the police inspections. Neither the inspection commanders nor the mayors were informed. You just closed it, and you went over it. I do not believe that this is the right way and that this is the right policy, and I do not believe that it is worthy of an interior minister to deal with refugees in such a way as to deal with the refugees and with the inhabitants who live there! I would like to address the district Steinhaus in Spital am Semmering again. There are almost more refugees there than residents! I mean, it can't be either. We can certainly talk about a lack of security policy. Today, a meeting of the refugee officers of the countries is taking place. The President of the Court of Auditors has also expressed respect for the Court of Auditors in the report that these meetings are more often to be held, that more regular meetings of refugee representatives are to be held in order to address and resolve these problems. You can be excited and wait and see what's going to come out of here today. Another point, which is also important and where the Minister is of course called for, is to work at EU level when it comes to the division of refugees and refugee quotas. If one considers that only ten of the 28 EU countries have 90 percent of asylum applications, this is not a relationship either. Compared to the neighbouring country of Italy: There are 0,2 asylum seekers, in Austria 1 000 people 2 asylum seekers! So here the relationship does not fit either, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] In conclusion: In any event, such news reports should not and should not have been made, according to which a tenant should have been terminated, because there are not enough quarters available. [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] There is an article, you can also read it. The housing cooperative has then inspired for reasons of culture and extended the contract of this pensioner to another three years. It can't be! There is a lack of security policy here, and here the Minister really has to do something. I can also address this appeal to you from the government parties, especially on the side of the ÖVP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e10844	The next item is the report by Mr Hable. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e10865	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! High house! Estimated citizens! Return to income tax law, to the Court of Auditors' report on income tax: Thank you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and your staff for this very bright report! I would also like to say: We wish you more. We wish for more of these tax policy analyses. Why? – In contrast to the funding report, which has drawn a slightly different picture, they show very mercilessly what confusion and what chaos we have in income tax law among other things: 558 Benefits, exemptions in income tax law alone, in the form of laws, in the form of regulations – and the harm is: obviously without any classification! There are no specific targets, there are no criteria for orientation. Consequently, there is no evaluation. The following is the follow-up: The effects of these derogations are unknown, we do not know. Therefore, there is no transparency! This, of course, also leads to a bureaucratic crazyness, to a bureaucratic insanity. The result can be seen here – I brought you this –: [[the speaker holds up a thick book with a yellow envelope]] This is the current KODEX tax law, which is, so to speak, the collected tax law in Austria. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: But very small printed!]] There are now 1 475 pages packed in here, and that only fits in because it is really minimal typeface and the paper is incredibly thin. 1 475 pages! – That’s where I ask: Who else should know? Are citizens still to know? Should they still understand why and why they pay according to what criteria by which standards taxes? – It's not possible, that's impossible! [[Abg. Brosz: Because not even the grass knows itself!]] We therefore need a simple, transparent tax system, a system that also understands people, taxpayers and taxpayers. That is, we don't want such fat blacks anymore, we want a slim tax book. However, we need not only a slender tax book, but also much more slimmer tax rates. That's where we focus NEOS on Germany. If we had the German tax burden in Austria, this would mean €4,000 less per household per year. This is not impossible; if Germany is able to do so, we can do the same. What this tax code also needs in addition to a slimming and slimmer tax rates is more sustainability, more ecologisation. We don't want to miss that either. Sweden showed it again. Since 1990, there has been a gradual change, the labour burden has been reduced and resource consumption, energy consumption has been taxed higher. As a result, Sweden is now the country with the lowest CO2 consumption in Europe. This creates a so-called double dividend. This not only creates more environmental protection, it also creates higher economic growth with more jobs in these new technologies. We owe it to our environment, and we owe it to our children. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] A meaningful tax reform is based on these three pillars: first discharge, second ecologisation and third simplification, debureaucratisation and more transparency in this current thicket – and especially at the last point, in debureaucratisation, more transparency. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we hope for your support and continue on such good reports! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e10935	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hable is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e11009	Next speaker: Mr Kucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e11030	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! If you look at the pictures and reports of the current refugee disaster in Turkey, remember the dramatic scenes that are now taking place on the Mediterranean, when you know that there are people who have died on the run, and also think of the ongoing debate in Austria, then you can see how current this report is. This question is highly political and is also currently busy, in these hours and days, with the national refugee representatives. What we should not forget, however, with regard to all the figures and comments also found in this Court of Auditors report, is that this is about people and human fates. Mr Kunasek is unaware that he has not responded, but I can only ask for one thing: They have said that there is an asylum industry in Styria. – I am a native of Carinthia and not quite as familiar with the Styria as you are, but I am not aware that the Styria has built an asylum industry. In the Styria you can be proud of a great automotive cluster, of great management companies. Maybe you haven't been in the Styria since long! In any case, conspiracy theories do not help anyone else, neither solve refugee problems nor the question of jobs in Styria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kunasek: Let's go to Spital am Semmering!]] Perhaps you also have concrete ideas on how to create jobs in Styria. I don't know if the asylum industry in Styria is a way forward, you have to judge that. It is best, however, that you also talk to people on the spot, go home again, talk to representatives of businesses and show me what asylum industry companies there are in the Styria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I should like to focus briefly on the key audit issues mentioned in the Court of Auditors' report. What exactly has the Court of Auditors considered? – It concerns the organisation of basic supply in the countries and the cooperation between the Federal Government and countries, it is about fulfilling the agreed quotas that have been carefully examined, it is about control mechanisms. We have heard it more often today: Many suggestions have already been implemented, some are being discussed during these hours and, yes, some are still ahead of us and are to be done in the future. One point that I would now like to take out from the Court of Auditors' report is the question of accommodation because of the ongoing debates. The Court of Auditors has looked very closely at what, in its view, is better, more cost-effective, namely larger organized mass quarters or smaller units. And the Court of Auditors comes to a very exciting conclusion: 'The organized accommodation was clearly based on the cost rates of the basic supply agreement, depending on the size and composition of the family. 100 % and 400 % more expensive than individual accommodation’. In other words, the Court of Auditors also concludes that small structures in Austria are not only more human, human and targeted, but also more cost-effective. I believe that this is also an important insight that we should take into account. It is now up to us not only to solve these questions in Europe, but also to discuss them together in Austria. Together with the federal states, together with the municipalities, we will create a solidarity solution. We owe this to people, refugees and, of course, the Republic of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e11085	The next speaker was Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e11106	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Asylum debate: What we are suffering from in the current situation is that very many people are suffering from crisis, as a result of persecution fleeing from their homelands and we cannot accommodate them. What's that? – This is the failure of the last decades. Why? – Because you have approved from SPÖ and ÖVP – and actually even under the joy of the Greens – that uncontrolled illegal immigration is taking place under the title of asylum. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And now, for those who would actually need asylum, there is simply no place. We're in front of this dilemma. The situation, too, of being humanitarian, is our great tradition – one naturally thinks of Hungary and Czechoslovakia – – Mrs. Colleague, Mrs. Vice-Chairman from Amstetten, please? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] I didn't see you on the speaker list. The call of the interlocutor is already gone – well, thank you! One question is that: Why have so many come to us at the Hungarian and Czechoslovakia crisis and, of course, were received from us? - Because they were right at our border. This is also a crucial difference to the humanitarian disasters that are currently taking place worldwide. We did our part in previous decades, when Austria still had a Schengen border. This has not been the case for a long time. It was previously mentioned the number of headlines in Italy. We know exactly how many of them are from Africa in Italy. However, they will not be included there, but simply silently, under European regulations won over to Austria. – We do not want such abuses to exist at European level, we have enough to bear our own ranking and do much for those who have come to us in the past. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Warring conflicts are currently taking place in Syria, Iraq. Turkey is an Islamic country, Iran is an Islamic country, in a living more Sunni, in the other Shiite. In itself, all those who belong to Islam could be admitted directly into the region, partly even very rich states. Why do they have to come to us over so many safe third countries? Why does it have to be that way? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinhauser.]] This is once a very modest question. We can also make one thing: we can also make our humanitarian contribution in the form of money, for example, directly below where the refugee flows are. That might make sense. As Mr Stein – ‘Storage’ – I would have been almost trying to say – has made an intermediate call: [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] On the question of accommodation there are still different things to consider. We have said that we want to welcome Christians from these regions, because they are not particularly well treated from all sides. That's what it's called, 1,000 Christians are coming to Austria. But we don't even manage to bring 500 here and there. There you can see: That's how the ÖVP's humanity looks. I have quite another personal access to it, compared with the example that Mr Kunasek has quoted from Styria, where there is this disproportionate accommodation. In the end, however, I am surprised at this debate about the greens' attitude, which in fact always wants to make the asylum issue tasty for us. There's nothing to hear from them at once. For example, the Green Councillor in Salzburg says that she was overwhelmed by the Minister of the Interior and that there would actually be too many asylum seekers there. – There is nothing to be heard of the Greens at once, for example, that district president Blimlinger from Vienna VII says: In my responsibility, where greens are, come with them! – I don't hear anything about that at all. As an interior minister, I would look at the map and the results of the elections, where especially many Greens, in part communist voters, say “Yes, just here!” and where they are not. This would lead to a win-win situation in which all those who are for asylum abuse, just like the Greens, the people they always want to praise us, and in the other communities that do not want to, then, are none. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is a so-called classic win-win situation. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: So deep, impossible!]] It is also, in principle, significant that this asylum debate is in reality – I would almost use a word that would be suspicious of the orderly reputation – and you must also listen to these words, ladies and gentlemen: [[Abg. Schwentner: You have already provoked enough calls of order!]] They themselves are the ones who do not agree with the demands when it comes to their own. You can see this only on the basis of the list of speakers on asylum: Mr Doppler and Mr President of the Court of Auditors have only been reported. If the question of excessive expenditure is about waste in the asylum field through non-regulated things, you are here very small in contrast to all other Court of Auditors words and do not even trust to speak.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e11201	Mr Rosenkranz! You know that the misdemeanor or misalignment of the names of Members present here is amply. I do not want to call for an order, but I would ask you to take note that you are not supposed to do this anymore. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Thank you, I will no longer do it in the form of names!]] – I take note of this as a clarification of yours. The next speaker is Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e11233	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! I am commenting on the Court of Auditors' report on refugee care for the countries, and here above all on the question of the state of Salzburg. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Kucher, just come out, say what does not fit you – but not so! The Freedom Party has taken this issue very carefully, you can believe me! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! When I come to Salzburg, it is quite strange – not by the Court of Auditors – of the state government there that the costs are not exactly determined, dear friends. In 2011, the cost of basic supply in the state of Salzburg was approximately €7.7 million. The country's account payments to the organisations responsible for disbursing basic services were too high. The number of persons in charge of the caretakers was highest in the country of Salzburg. – This is what this report says. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Rosenkranz said: I reject the procedure of the responsible Green Councillor Berthold, the ÖVP and the majority of the population. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] People who need help have to be helped, this is out of question, but one cannot: that the people, the mayors, are simply overwhelmed and put on their own. That's not all right. The most recent example, ladies and gentlemen, is that the competent councillor Berthold is massively overwhelmed in her field: There were already 60 asylum seekers in Bad Gastein, now 40 more. – This is irresponsible to the domestic population. Bad Gastein is the most recent example; New market, eben, hattau and unken are further examples. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The craftsmanship belongs to the tractors, and all EU countries have to help, not just some. This – which was addressed by Mr Rosenkranz – is again part of the border controls. This is not only what we call for, but also some country leaders, although country elections are pending. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Other EU countries – and this has already been mentioned by Mr Schenk – are being waken up: Austria, our federal states and the population cannot bear this alone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e11296	For the second time, Mr Dr Rosenkranz has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e11317	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! As it looks, I have not succeeded in bringing the Greens in any way to a word on the issue of asylum, according to an insight into the list of speakers. Now I also have a task for the government parties. Mr Doppler has already mentioned this: It is about Austria not having a Schengen border anymore, so refugees should not come to us anymore. There are numerous problems, including in the area of crime, which are taking place in Austria. In the Lower Austrian Landtag, a total of 14 requests have been made for temporary sample-like border controls to be introduced – that has been rejected. Here in the National Council, I have already made such requests that the competent ministers of the Interior – Fekter at the time and now Mikl-Leiter – have always said that the legal property of travel freedom is absolutely a higher value within the framework of the European Union, therefore: no border controls. Now I hear: Niessl, Platter, Pühringer, Haslauer, Pröll, Kaiser, Stepweiser, Wallner, all can imagine at once that such a thing takes place. And of course we want to support this. In particular, we want to support this by calling on Members from the federal states – Mr Rädler, for example, as a faithful Vasall of his head of state Pröll – to give their country leaders support here; I am now submitting a request from representatives from all nine federal states: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is really what comes from the federal states, what we want to support, where we agree on support [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The only voice I heard last was from the ÖVP, by Mr Karas, who said: No, border controls do not come into question. be. – Here comes the nail sample for the ÖVP: Are you committed to the interests of the Austrian citizens and the federal states or to anything else superior?
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e11384	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Rosenkranz is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e11489	The next speaker is Mr President-in-Office Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e11510	Mr President. High house! I would like to start by thanking you very much for the fact that you have managed to deal with the Court of Auditors' reports on today's agenda on points 1 to 3. I would also like to thank you very much for the very intensive discussions in the Court of Auditors on these Court of Auditors reports and also for the thanks you have expressed in your speeches. I will of course pass on this thanks to the staff of the Court of Auditors. I would also like to thank you because you are increasingly exercising your control rights to help further implement the Court of Auditors' recommendations. The reports and areas on today's agenda, such as financial management, health, security, asylum, culture, real estate, infrastructure and foreign policy, show that we have a great deal of potential to use the money more efficiently and economically, in order to meet the quality needs of citizens and, in particular, to use it in order to increase transparency and increase the importance of tax justice. [[President Bures takes over the presidency again.]] That it is necessary to put in place measures in this area, which show the budgetary developments, where expenditure and total debt increased by €42 billion from 2009 to 2013 and where debt increased by €4.81 billion from 2012 to 2013. Consider the budgets of the following years, for example 2015 or the medium-term planning by 2018, it shows that there are risks in order to achieve the objective of a structurally balanced budget. That is to say, there is something to be done, not to highlight the government programme more closely where, on the one hand, offensive measures of €3.5 billion, namely expenditure, are planned to increase expenditure, where further spending is planned to increase € 1 billion, where further reduction measures are planned for a further billion. On the other hand, there is, of course, the sense that, if you want to achieve a structurally balanced budget, you also have to address the long-term structural reforms on the expenditure side, while at the same time ensuring that the reduced revenue is also reduced. The fact that there is potential for this has already been mentioned by two speakers today, by Mr Rossmann and Mr Hable, in the context of transparency in the benefits of income tax law. This review is significant because there are problems not only with income tax law, but also with corporate tax law, but also with funding. As an example of income tax, it should be pointed out that 558 almost unlimited benefits lead to a loss of revenue of €9 billion or that is 35 percent of actual revenue. At the same time, a comprehensive and systematic approach with concrete objectives and measurable criteria was missing in the area. It was not known whether these tax advantages actually use the binding financial resources to the best possible extent. The evaluations did not take place, nor did there be systematic monitoring, measurement and analysis of the effects of these benefits – at an administrative cost of € 73 million per year. In addition, numerous and partly complicated provisions on benefits have an adverse impact on the performance of declining personnel resources and the increase in the legal system have also led to a reduction in control density. In that case, the risk was taken into account that low tax rates would lead to further unfavourable or unwanted tax losses. That is to say, it would be necessary to put in place measures in the area, in particular in the direction that, if I give a favour, at the same time the effect will be controlled or compared with whether the input corresponds to the output and whether the effect is greater than the input – only then should it remain. In this case, it would therefore be appropriate to critically question the existing benefits and seek a significant reduction. And it would be necessary to set qualitative and quantitative targets with measurable indicators while at the same time measuring the achievement of the goal. In addition, it was mentioned that the funding report does not currently have the quality to actually serve as a control instrument – it would be necessary to present the impact of each benefit in the promotion report in accordance with a uniform and consistent classification, in order to be able to effectively control it in a targeted manner. It is not just the area of taxation that offers potential to act. In this context, the Court's audit also shows that there is a need for action in the health field, and there is a need for action in terms of quality for patients. In this direction, the Court of Auditors' focus will also be on quality assurance measures in patient treatment. The focus was chosen with the question: Do we have a uniform procedure for measuring quality in the interests of patients and for transparent comparisons between hospitals? – This should be on and on its own and is also necessary and is beyond dispute. However, the examination has shown that there is a need for massive action in this area. Despite a clear legal order in the 2005 Health Quality Act, mandatory quality standards for the provision of health services are still lacking in many areas. Neither the Federation, nor – in this case – the country of Salzburg, which has been examined, had taken the necessary measures. The country of Salzburg has even exercised a regulatory competence in the area in the form that it has removed the competence of regulation, although it would have been obliged since 1996 to provide for internal quality assurance measures and to create the requirement by means of a regulation. We therefore only have uniform quality criteria for health and performance across the country in the area in the framework of the Health Structure Plan. However, these are lacking in the field of process and at the same time the quality of results in the hospitals. That means that the question is not answered how well the outcome of the negotiations is compared to the result achieved – a question that should always be asked. The five hospitals audited by the Court of Auditors recorded quality parameters in their own interest, complications in operations; there were no uniform requirements for this. The quality data collected were therefore not comparable and at the same time not used as a basis for controls. In certain disciplines, with a single exception, the merciful brothers in Salzburg, the hospitals did not show the required number of cases, i.e. the number of operations a doctor needs to perform in order to guarantee a certain quality. In other words, the minimum frequencies of the Austrian health plan have not been fulfilled. Considerable in this context is Zell am See, where the minimum frequencies have not been reached with a single exception, namely in the case of redundancies, in all operations. In Mittersill only two thyroid operations were performed, in Tamsweg 41 percent of the prescribed minimum surgery in the area of knee surgery, in the Oberndorf hospital, the minimum target was only 14 percent, or in Pancreas operations only 37 percent. That is to say, in this area, it is necessary to ensure that we also have a certain quality in the hospitals where more than 50 percent of the funds are used. Today the area of refugee care was also addressed. The Court of Auditors has just shown where there are problems where disputed questions have not been answered for years or have not been resolved, such as, for example, adjustment of costs, scope of the beneficiaries, at the same time, lack of availability of quarters. In this area, it would be necessary to introduce a arbitration body which will ensure in the future that decisions falling within the federal, national and municipal spheres will therefore be taken in a targeted manner, so that the division of competence does not cause the poor people on the one hand and the citizens on the other. A measure should go in the direction of bringing together responsibility for tasks, expenditure and financing, as we do not only have a problem with the expenditure side, but in some areas also have a quality problem. The money we use will not be used with the quality with which it could be used if we do not manage better in the future. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e11611	Thank you, President of the Court of Auditors. No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure to take note of this report III-16 of the additions. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kunasek, colleagues and colleagues on the reopening of the Hospital am Semmering Police Department. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Hable, colleague and colleagues on: Austria Eko-LOGISCH control. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strache, ladies and gentlemen, on the implementation of temporary border controls. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. [[14:10:08]] 4. Point Report by the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives on petitions No. 1 and 2, 11 to 13 and 15 to 19 as well as the Citizens' Initiatives No. 17, 21, 44 and 45, 47, 49 and 50 (265 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e11691	We're now on the 4th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Höbart. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e11718	High house! We can now deal with petitions in plenary as we are finally dealing with them in the Committee on Petitions. And here I come to a very controversial issue from our point of view, namely how to end up dealing with citizens' initiatives, petitions, issues that concern the people and which this Parliament brings in. And in recent years, we have seen that citizens' initiatives are often simply being swept away from the table. Short to the usual practice: What's going on in the petition committee? – It is quickly flown over there; especially in the case of highly meaningful petitions, there is the so-called Sam- Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. That's absurd, we reject it! We liberals demand very concretely, especially when it comes to citizens' initiatives, and I would like to stress this once again – even though many Members are of the opinion and it is indeed the case that we are moving in a representative democracy –: If citizens are thinking, if there are issues that move citizens, then we want the freedom to have these applications allocated to the specialist committees often go through a proper parliamentary process – with expert hearings and all these things – so that citizens' initiatives are actually taken seriously. You have to say that at this point. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] By means of this instrument of the collective reports, we simply reject petitions and citizens' initiatives. Just briefly, because I can only strip these petitions in the truest sense of the word: For example, in the collective report “Gegen Rauberabzocke und Trafikanten-Dieben”, “Gries am Brenner a refugee home” – by the way introduced by an ÖVP member – we also have a very important petition to deal with, namely, “Rettet the Federal Army” – introduced by our representative and chairman of the national defense committee Mario Kunasek – in which it is really about saving the federal army. The Federal Army is in such a pitiful state, made by red and black, that it is to shame. And what's going on here? – It simply ends up in the collection report, and one sweeps over this collection report so to speak. In fact, we should have discussed this petition in the Defence Committee with experts from the Ministry; and it will not be done. There must be a rethinking process in order to improve the parliamentary process precisely for citizens' initiatives, because this is not the way to deal with citizens' initiatives and petitions, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e11776	The next item is the speech by Mr Lipitsch. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e11797	Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Höbart, I would like to replicate your speech very briefly. We have in the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives, I do not think we have the expertise to discuss each individual request. We decide for the most part where we give it. If you look at the collection report, you see, there is no notice where one of the opposition parties has not agreed. This is not a single entry of the government parties, but we decide where this is going. And I believe that this is very, very important, because we also decide, if such citizens are already in a pipeline where there is a survey, where there are already legislative templates in consideration, that we therefore postpone and wait for what is coming. At the last meeting, however, we allocated a lot of citizens' concerns to the specialist committees. You can look at that in the collection report. There, in these committees, this will be advised accordingly, there the experts sit, there should also be discussed. That is why I would like to refer specifically to a petition. This is the petition 18 which deals with the abolition of the 500-gram limit in the case of miscarriages and the voluntary entry of these children into the register of status. Because we have the opportunity to focus on individual topics. On this subject: In Austria, unborn children are not registered in the register, even if it is the parents' wish. They cannot be registered if they have a weight of less than 500 grams. This usually leads to extreme strains on parents because they lose something very special in their lives. And you also have to say that today the technique of medicine is so far away that parents already get pictures of their child at an early stage, that is, through ultrasound. And they're losing this kid. I think it's quite, very important that we deal with it. These parents are also confronted with the fact that, when this event occurs, it is not legally existent. There is no way to say goodbye to the child or to light a candle or put a flower somewhere on a grave. We need to change that. Because in Austria these children are buried in a collection in a nearby cemetery. A little better than in Germany before 2013. Because in Germany before 2013, the hospital waste was disposed of and was disposed of with it. Therefore, in 2013, Germany created a law that allows parents to enter these children into the register if they wish. Of course, the petition has caused great resonance, and we have assigned this petition to the Committee on the Interior, which is responsible for the register of status. I hope and I ask that this registration be made possible on a voluntary basis in the Committee on the Interior, on the basis of the possibility that these parents will be able to say good-bye. On the other hand, we also have citizens' initiatives. And I would like to take advantage of the Citizens' Initiative 51 on improving apprenticeship training, which is about providing optimal training for those apprentices who work in the field of gastronomy. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: That's where we were very much for it!]] [[Abg. Obernoster: Did you read them through?]] - Yeah, I read it through. It is precisely because this citizens' initiative has brought in apprentices themselves who come from this area of the Villach vocational school, that it is a special concern to me. I know it's a problem to change a schooling, a vocational schooling, but it's our goal to give apprentices the best possible training. Because these are the promoters for tourism. They then work on the people outside and are the promoters, and this also benefits the economy in the final effect. I believe that, of course, we need to discuss such concerns in this area and also see how we can help those concerned or how we can better establish the system. Of course, it is a great palette, Mr Höbart, which we have to deal with here. Yesterday it's called, it's a herb-and-rub discussion. We get everything, that is – and I have deliberately taken in the miscarriages and the apprentices – all these applications are coming to us. We should make it possible for us to allocate this to the relevant committees. Finally, I would like to thank very much those who initiate these citizens' initiatives and petitions. Because they do a lot of work to bring in new ideas, new proposals. – A very warm thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e11855	Mrs Schenk. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the honourable Member for his excellent report. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e11876	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In my remarks, I refer to the petition “Austria needs an anti-mobbing law”. First of all, I would like to mention that we will not vote in favour of this collective report because we do not agree with the procedure that this petition was not allocated to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, but was only taken into account. Mobbing is a big problem, and it is increasingly common. Those affected often fall into isolation, with economic and health problems. It is a great damage to the economy. There have been studies by the Chamber of Labour of Lower Austria, where the damage was assumed to be significant, but there are no concrete figures. We are making a request today so that this anti-mobbing law is also discussed and dealt with and, at best, implemented. Mobbing is now regulated in various areas, on the one hand in labour law, and on the other hand in the equal treatment law. It is too fragmented and the affected citizen, the mubby does not know and has no legal certainty either. The Committee was argued that this was not necessary for prevention measures to be better than their own anti-mobbing law. So it was in the opinion of the Ministry. But that's too little. Here we need an anti-mobbing law, in which all areas are merged, and everything is stoned and clearly summarized on some sides, so that the affected person can find himself here alone and does not need the help of a lawyer to see how he can defend himself as a mobbtter. In this context, I would also like to remind you that in April of this year we passed a new law in the High House on remote and external transactions, the FAGG. This law was removed from the Consumer Protection Act because it was not optimal there either because it was too fragmented there. Here you can also consider the analogy in the anti-mobbing law, to go this way as well and to decide on your own anti-mobbing law. We've got here at the Hohenhaus on 9th. It was already discussed on July 10, 2010. The government groups also considered that Austria does not need an anti-mobbing law at the time, but if you look at the few numbers that exist, I doubt that. In the course of this petition I spoke to many interested parties, including a self-help group in Graz, the original initiator of this petition came from Salzburg, who also described his problems to me, and a doctor from Lower Austria was with me. So there is really a lot of human suffering associated with it, and, on the other hand, remedial action has to be taken. I would now like to make a motion for a resolution which I mentioned earlier. This includes two points: on the one hand, that a comprehensive Mobbing study is commissioned, where figures are collected, where other areas belonging to Mobbing, such as Bossing and Staffing, are also dealt with, on the other hand, that there is an anti-mobbing law here and that the government provides for a relevant submission. I shall now make the request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e11958	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Schenk, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e12124	Next speaker: Mr Gahr. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e12145	Madam President. High house! The present report presents a wide range of citizens, starting from the environment and health, to the media, poverty, family, to safety and social security. Mr Höbart, I believe that all petitions and citizens' initiatives will be taken seriously and will deal with needs and opportunities accordingly. I should like to comment briefly on two petitions and a citizens' initiative. You have already mentioned the petition of the municipality of Gries am Brenner against the refugee home. Yes, this one was handed over to me by the mayor. ==References== As a result, I believe, together with the region, we have tried to take this citizens' initiative seriously and to deal with it. The final result is that there is a solution for this community: Instead of 50 to 70 asylum seekers were accommodated, and 20 to 30 are accommodated in the region. So here a region consisting of 13 communities has worked together on it. In the interests of this difficult debate, I believe we have found a reasonable solution. I think that's what the country has seen. That was simply imposed, and that's not the way and the goal. This is only shared with a dialogue between the community and the citizens concerned and the region. I believe that we will be even more busy on this issue, as it shows today's discussion. I would like to thank Mr Lipitsch for the petition on the abolition of the 500-gram limit in miscarriage. This is a theme that has moved us all. I got a lot of broadcasts there. I'm allowed to quote briefly: Create Turn off this 500-gram limit and make sure that every human being is also recognized as a human being! I believe that this has also moved us to accept and take this issue seriously. As a family party, I believe we are very interested in the fact that there is a regulation. Germany can be a model. We have regulated the allocation to the Committee on the Interior, and so we have the opportunity to amend this law and to make it possible to enter the register of personal standings. Of course, we also need the health sector to change the law on midwives, but I think you can see how fast it can be to bring about a human and decent recognition of children. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A citizens' initiative that has been handed over to me concerns the preservation of the Lizum in the Watt valley. This was a troop practice place that is used publicly and internationally. More than 1,000 citizens have come in here. There have been some conflicts of use with the hikers, the tourists, but also the mountain farmers, when a weapon exercise was carried out in the summer. This was not contractually agreed, and citizens have risen to barricades and have launched a citizens' initiative that is still under way. In the meantime, an association was established to further highlight this problem. In the opinion of the Ministry of Defence, which was drawn up on the basis of a 1955 use contract, it is clear that this is a multi-use agreement. At the heart of the Wattens Lizum, the rights lie here with the citizens and with the farmers who manage this mountain pasture, but also with the wide-rangings. With this, I believe, one will try in the future to make clear in agreement with the troop practice place here again that it is possible to use this troop exercise place unimpeded by tourism and agriculture. Ladies and gentlemen! Estimated citizens! This collection report shows that it is possible in our country to treat citizens' concerns unbureaucratically and as closely as possible as possible. I believe – Mr Lipitsch has already stressed this – that petitions and citizens' initiatives are a valuable and, above all, useful way to identify and resolve concerns and problems. They are a positive example of direct democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e12202	Mr Wurm has been reported to speak. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e12224	Madam President. High house! Dear spectators at the gallery and at home! I would like to tell you today a short story that is symptomatic of the state of the Republic and how this Republic deals with civil participation, direct democracy. You can see it a little bit on the government bank, too. There is no one here, that is, there is also the importance that this committee has, and I think that is embarrassing. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Short to the story: The story starts in spring 2014, Hermann Gahr will know. The green councillor Baur in Tyrol suddenly announces that he wants to build an asylum home for 50 asylum seekers in Gries am Brenner. Gries am Brenner is a small municipality with almost 1,000 inhabitants. Gries am Brenner is the border municipality on the largest tow route in Europe, from Italy up the Brenner to Central Europe. In addition, in Gries am Brenner, the police station, which has existed for decades and has had or has had this task, namely to control these tractors, will be closed by the end of the year. So, what happened? – Of course, there was a storm of disillusionment of the population throughout the Wipptal, and also the mayor, as in Tyrol so usual an ÖVP mayor, was desperate and asked the blue national councillor Peter Wurm for help because he felt abandoned by his own party in Tyrol and because no one helped him there. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] By the way, an original quote from the mayor – I like to give it back here – in the phone call where he called me: Yes, he spoke to the head of state Platter and he told him he couldn't do anything because of the coalition with the Greens. So how's the story going? – I advise the mayor: The thing is, you're making a popular survey with you in the community. Although this cannot be prevented by the asylum home, at least the local population is involved and asked for. - So far, so good. Then suddenly movement into history – I suppose there has been some turbulence in the ÖVP – and suddenly the petition number 12/2014 by Mr Hermann Gahr in the Committee on Petitions shows up with the content that I might have written. In terms of content, he demands exactly the same thing. [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] He calls for this asylum home not to be built, it also argues very well. So I was very happy – where, of course, this was a purely fig leaf action of the National Councilman Hermann Gahr, because of course he is well-known enough to know that this is not a story that concerns the Federation, but that the country competence is. That is to say, this petition has in itself lost nothing, because competence in this matter is clearly with the country. What's going on? – A group of concerned citizens in Gries am Brenner then makes a signature action, demanding this popular survey. In short, to the explanation: By law, one sixth of the electorate has to support this, which is almost 17 percent. What happened in Gries on the burner? – 30 percent of the population supported this signature campaign and did not want more or less than a population survey in Gries am Brenner. So far, so good. It would have been all clear. The signatures are handed over and then the following happens: The mayor has obviously got a muzzle from the top and is lost, even not accessible to the press, and represents the point of view, he simply does not conduct this popular survey. I'm sorry, but the deadline expired. What does the mayor do instead? – Please, we are in Austria and not in North Korea, but even in North Korea people would have laughed now: The mayor conducts a survey with the municipal coat of arms at his own expense. That is, all citizens in Gries am Brenner receive a letter with a constituency and a reply envelope. So this is North Korea live in Tyrol. What's going on? – The mayor receives the return envelopes with the polls, counts them at home and publishes the final result at a press conference, where suddenly the entire Grieser population is for the asylum seekers' home. [[Abg. Gahr: That's not true!]] [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] The return rate – and this is already an accusation – of 99 percent does not even make the press staggy in Tyrol. So this is North Korea live, I miss the words. What is the morale of history? – Please, it cannot be in 2014 that a mayor has the legal opportunity to simply not conduct a legitimate popular survey. Here we are called upon to create the legal conditions in Parliament and also in the Committee so that something like this can no longer happen in order for the citizen to come to his right, regardless of the subject matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e12303	Mr Willi spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e12328	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I have referred to an actual correction to the comments made by Mr Peter Wurm, and I am actually correcting: The municipality of Gries am Brenner is not “Nordkorea live”. You can convince yourself about it on the spot. - That was the first point. Second point: Mr Wurm has said that the police station in Gries am Brenner has only the task of controlling the tow route to the north. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Mostly!]] – That’s not true! This police station has exactly the tasks as well as any other police station in Austria. Third point: It was therefore not for the popular survey because the Tyrolean community order provides that people's surveys in a place are to be carried out only on matters concerning the community and where the community has the competence. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: There is a legal opinion!]] As we know, refugee issues are the responsibility of the countries, and therefore, according to TGO, this survey has been prohibited.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e12387	Mr Pirklhuber is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll set you five minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e12408	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Values Watchers at the gallery! The issue of citizens' initiatives and petitions is a very important area of parliamentary work. We have shown last year that we have been able and able to do public work with the help of a committee that has so far been rather inconceivable. In this context, I would like to remind you of such important petitions and citizens' initiatives as the prohibition of neonicotinoides for the protection of bees, which have been very prominently negotiated here in the Committee, or the petitions and citizens' initiatives concerning the Committee of Inquiry and legal questions of the Committee of Inquiry, which are now in place in the House. So there was and really there is broad support for the population, and that is very important. All those who are here, and also those who sit and watch at home, I would like to ask you to come in here and visit Parliament's homepage to support citizens' initiatives and petitions. This is possible online. You can also give up your vote if these petitions and citizens' initiatives are still under negotiation. This has, I believe, been a huge first step, ladies and gentlemen, to bring the population closer to Parliament. Now to the current collection report: We shall vote in favour of the report. Why? – After the cross-sections of the last – I say – months and discussions between the political groups, we also want to give a positive signal, Mr Lipitsch, that we are ready for joint cooperation in the interests of citizens. But I think it is important to continue to look at the criticism points that have already come to some degree today, particularly as regards our working methods. I now mention these petitions and citizens' initiatives. We have 17 to treat here. Of the 17 citizens' initiatives and petitions, seven have been allocated to the committees. So seven concerns of citizens' initiatives have actually ended up where they belong, namely in the specialist committees, such as the question of how copyright is to be regulated. There is, for example, the Citizens' Initiative "No to Mobile and Computer Tax! Yes, to a modern copyright!” and at the same time there is also a citizens’ initiative “Festplattsgebung now!”. Here, the issue of copyright and also the financing in the artistic field is to be clarified. This has been assigned to the Committee and this must also be dealt with on a technical basis. Or there is also a petition of film television friends to use 20 percent of ORF's fees for the award of productions in Austria. So this is a question that has been assigned to the Committee on Culture, and I think it makes sense to discuss such a question in the Committee. We are now dealing with a number of problems, namely: Why have we not allocated other initiatives, Mr Lipitsch – I will mention them immediately – to the Committee? I believe that one of the most interesting things is the citizens' initiative number 50. It calls for "work time FAIR Shortfalls, work FAIR Parts: For 7 hours working day and overtime reduction.” Ladies and gentlemen, there is record unemployment not only in Europe but also in Austria, and we still have 270 million overtime in the year – 270 million overtime! We know that there are also problems with the health situation at work. Mr Schenk has also introduced an anti-mobbing initiative. We know how many diseases there are due to the appropriate conditions in the workplace. And the very question of how we can develop work in the future can also be fairly distributed, and can also make sense in terms of the principle of solidarity, is the subject. From our point of view, this far-reaching initiative, this citizens' initiative, supported by more than 2,000 citizens online, should also have been allocated to the Committee. I would also say that she is not daily, Mr Lipitsch. But it is an important part of a social debate on where the world of work is going in Austria and Europe over the next five, ten, fifteen years. So I would like us to make improvements here also in committee. Why? – Because of the – and now I still come to one of the most prominent citizens’ initiatives currently in the Committee on Treatment – citizens’ initiative on the Transatlantic Investment and Free Trade Agreement TTIP. This citizens' initiative already has 25 000 declarations of support on the platform, but there is still a lack of the opinion of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on this citizens' initiative. All other ministries, including the Federal Chancellery, have already delivered an opinion. We had to postpone this citizens' initiative. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has not provided an answer. You will see that we need amendments to the Rules of Procedure, that ministries are also obliged to provide the answer within a certain time of, for example, eight weeks. We are going to work together on this change, I hope. In addition, I would also like to thank Mr Pock for his efforts as chairman at this point, who is really trying to get something going, that we have a constructive climate and that we are also doing something here in the interests of the citizens. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e12462	The next item is the report by Mr Kunasek. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e12484	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, we have already talked a lot about citizenship, direct democracy and the like. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I believe, not later than since SPÖ and ÖVP's driving policy in Styria, we know that the SPÖ and the ÖVP, the two government parties, have a small problem with direct democracy. Although citizens’ surveys in municipalities with 70 percent, 80 percent, and 90 percent have made clear decisions to stay the community’s independence, they have been overrun. On the other hand, red and black mayors have not even allowed our applications because they seem to be afraid of the population and do not want to let the citizens talk about such decisions, which directly affect the lives of the individual. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, today we can talk about petitions, about citizen participation, but we must also live it. And we must live it wherever we really live, in our communities. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to dedicate my speech to the issue of German army, even though I have to admit that this is somehow a rather slow exercise, which is becoming a sad habit, because since 2008 I have been in Parliament, since 2008 I have been speaking again and again, as many other colleagues, who know what it is about the German army. That is why I also launched the petition “Rettet the Federal Army” and thousands of people have also supported it, namely people who have given a clear vote last year for maintaining military service and, of course, also for reforming the military service, including a financial facility that allows the constitutional tasks of the Federal Army to continue. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we know today that nothing has been left of all this until now. On the contrary, it has been held here in Parliament for months, but above all it has always been a media discussion, where the government parties or the ministers responsible, namely, on the one hand, the Ministers of Defence as Minister of State and on the other hand, the Minister of Finance, who, of course, also has to release appropriate resources to push each other to the Black or Red Peter. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the German army has nothing, of which the population has nothing either. It's time to act. That is why, I believe, it is important to send a clear signal with this petition, which has been supported and signed by more than 2,000 people. And above all, I also call on the speakers of the other political groups to live now in the autumn really this much-Quoted shoulder closure, of which one hears and reads over and over again, also in press releases, in public comments, but from the unfortunately up to now in the defense committee, but also here in plenary nothing to see. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice to meet you.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by thanking the officers, officers, basic defenses, German army batches, who, despite adverse circumstances, have fulfilled their orders in the home and abroad. I would like to thank you at this point, and above all I hope that we will end this police mourning game sometime and ensure that the federal army is financially equipped, which the German army has also earned.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e12547	Mr Pock has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e12568	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! Values Advisors! Before I go to the Committee on Petitions, I would like to correct two points which have been mentioned by the liberals here in plenary. The first punk was that we actually would not have political discussions in committee and take note of everything. - It's not like that. I experienced very hot debates in the first year. I think the pituitary petition is still well remembered to all of us. This was certainly a political discussion. We also have, last but not least, to remember the liberals, very intensively discussed the German anthem. That is to say, it is a political committee and it is thought very carefully how we deal with the petitions. The second point seems to be due to ignorance. If the Committee on Petitions has a collective report, there is therefore no Minister and no Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for their responsibility. That is the essential point. But now to the contents: I was at the beginning of the week at the meeting of the German petition committees, where, among other things, Austria, South Tyrol, Luxembourg and Slovakia were represented. I took along a lot of impressions that I would like to share with you here. On the question: Where do we stand, where are other petition committees? – I think we can learn a lot about the participation model, but also about competence. It is the self-understanding of the Committee on Petitions to be an instrument of citizens. There we are at an eye, and in numerous discussions we have already proved that we are working intensively on it. Furthermore, cooperation in the petition committees is characterised by high mutual appreciation. We can go too. But the rest of the list is not that glorious anymore. The German Bundestag's Committee Service, comparable to the Austrian Parliament's Directorate, is financially and humanely well positioned and equipped with direct relevant competences, such as the possibility of getting opinions or direct clarifications with two MEPs, one government and one opposition representative, in order to quickly resolve a request, a quick resolution of a petition or citizens' initiative. Well equipped means that we don't have a seventh, but almost a hundredth of what the German Bundestag has, and our employees work very intensively here in the Parliamentary Directorate. The powers of the Committee on Petitions go beyond mere taking note of or assigning to specialist committees. Concerns that can be solved directly and easily are solved in a four-eye principle. . I think we could significantly expand our competence if we changed the rapporteur system. It is true that Members of the Committee on Petitions have more powers and not just work in this committee. This means that issues such as education or asylum, security, culture and all the other issues that concern us would be quickly soluble in an initial instance. The petition is not a party-political instrument. This means, of course, that a petition can be brought by a Member of Parliament, but only as a citizen or a citizen and not in his office of office. There is also a big difference, and equality would be advisable here. There are a high number of committee meetings per year. The Land Brandenburg is apparently German champion. We meet, and we've just improved, I assume between five and seven times a year. In Brandenburg, the Committee of Petitions meets 48 times a year. It is a working committee that meets almost every week. It is shorter, but through a faster solution expertise, it is guaranteed that within one, two, three, four weeks the citizens will actually be given an answer. Not with any complex matter, but with simple concerns that are immediately soluble, it is actually feasible. There are also ongoing discussions on the possibility of continuing to hold the Committee on Petitions after a new election, so that there is no waiting time for petitions and citizens' initiatives. This too is an issue that we can discuss and where we are not yet ready. There is also a culture of discussion where online platforms are currently available for all petition committees. This means that any petition, any citizens' initiative, which is actually introduced and also put online, is open to public discussion, where Members can, of course, discuss, but in principle, it is a discussion in society. There are already studies showing that 92 percent of all comments are positive and content-driven there. That is, a great fear of escalation is unfounded. We also need more resources in Parliament. Another point is the good networking of all petition committee members, ombudsmen and ombudsmen. – I met the Ombudsman of the Austrian Committee on Petitions of the Federal Council in Germany, he was not introduced to me before. We do not yet know the experts in the federal states. It is indeed true that we can also network away from the Rules of Procedure, so that we can invest within the Parliamentary Directorate, be closer to citizens. All this brings me to the following question: In Article 11 of our basic state law, similar to that in Germany, we have held in 1867: “The right to petition is granted to everyone.” Instead of “everyone” one would of course say “everybody” today. The question for the honourable Member is: How do we deal with this assignment? What tools do we have? This is not a question of ideology, whether left, right or right. In fact, it is a question that we as Members have to ask ourselves: What future does the Committee on Petitions have if we do not actually manage to invite citizens more often, to achieve more competence and to find a timely solution? I would ask for a joint work on this matter. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e12651	Mrs Fekter spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e12675	Madam President. Mr Pirklhuber has claimed that the opinion of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs is still out of place. - That's wrong! ==References== This opinion has been forwarded to Parliament on September and has therefore received all opinions on TTIP and on this petition here in Parliament. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: When was the committee date?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] It is necessary to correct this, since then the urgent one is, and we do not want to assume that the conditions are wrong.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e12719	Mrs Bayr has spoken. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e12740	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! At international level, we are currently discussing the future development agenda, which will apply to the world from 2015, and it will replace the Millennium Development Goals. In this discussion, in this process, the representatives of women's organisations, as well as the representatives of people with disabilities, indigenous peoples, and children, are constantly demanding that there be data that has been broken down so far that they themselves as groups, as well. are perceived; according to the motto: What gets measured gets done! – So only for what is really counted, what is measured, one also has political foundations to do something. What do they do with it, what do they want with it, why do they do that? – They require visibility. They demand that they be perceived. It is quite similar in the debate in Austria as regards the perception of women in a wide variety of roles, whether it be at the Bureau of the National Council, whether as chairman of supervisory councils, or as sportsmen in technical sports. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Women have various tasks in society, and they also fulfil them, they have important roles there. For example, it is a question of presenting this in the German anthem. I am very pleased that social progress, in the sense of gender equality, is always in the legislative process – even though sometimes very slow – as well as in the case of the Federal Anthem, in the federal law on the German anthem of the Republic of Austria in its version of 1. January 2012, where the daughters and the sons are now sung. That is right and good, because this also makes women and their role, their presence, their presence visible. Of course, it is everyone’s bewildered and – my previous speaker said it – it is everyone’s and “every woman’s” right to bring in citizens’ initiatives, petitions. This also applies to the petition concerning the German anthem and to its contributors. I think, however, that this shows that we still have a lot to do. The question of how we treat both sexes in society and make them visible at the same time is clearly one where we politicians also have a lot to do and where we politicians also have to look at, that it is really important for all groups of the population to make women and men equally visible, to consider, to sing, and to make them really happen in all the possibilities of life that one can imagine. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e12788	Mrs Fekter is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I would like to draw your attention to the fact that I will interrupt the meeting at 3 p.m. You have 3 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e12810	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! As a cultural speaker of the ÖVP on the Citizen's Initiative No 17, I would like to call for the immediate implementation of the hard drive levy, and the Citizen's Initiative No. 21, which says "No to mobile phone and computer tax!". That means that these are two diametrically opposed citizens' initiatives. However, what both citizens' initiatives have in common is that they demand a modern copyright. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, a modern copyright, we should work this out with four specific priorities. It is about legal certainty both for consumers and for artists, about a transparent and fair copyright law, so that the market power does not let small artists fall under the wheels, and then we also need reform approaches for collecting societies. I would like to see another regulator look at whether the contracts do not have any misunderstandings. And as the fourth point, we need the clear rules on remuneration claims in the case of modern copyright. This will certainly be a very difficult undertaking, which can be seen in these two citizens' initiatives. One wants the hard drive charge immediately, the other says: For heaven's sake no, no computer tax! There it will be up to us here in the House to come together to a solution that includes all of this. In any case, I would like to thank you for the cooperation, including cross-group cooperation, and I hope that the Freedom Party will also join this initiative in Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e12846	I am now interrupting the negotiations on item 4 so that the urgent question requested can be dealt with at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[14:59:05]] Request for urgent procedure of Deputies Mag. Werner Kogler, colleagues in the Federal Minister for Science, Research and Economics concerning: Fair trade instead of corporate justice – government peak with double play (2442/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e12877	We are now entering the urgent debate on the written question 2442/J. As this has now been done to all the Members of Parliament, their reading by the scribe is not sufficient. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e13432	I welcome Mr Vice-Chancellor and give Mr Magistrate. Kogler as the first questioner for the reasons of the request, which according to § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e13459	Madam President. Federal Minister! Tomorrow and the day after tomorrow [[Call the ÖVP: Good morning!]] [[Cheerfulness with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] In expectation of your competent calls, I have taken along some documents so you can then take a look so that you can know what you're talking about! [[I should like to congratulate Mrs Schellhorn and Mr Loacker.]] But this is only to clarify our relationship. Mr Federal Minister, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, in Canada, in Toronto and in Ottawa, the so-called Canada-European Union Summit, where a so-called free trade agreement, at least the CETA agreement, between the European Union and Canada, should have been signed. Now it's going to be enough to act like what's still bad enough. That's what we're going to do. Why? I now assume that you have already heard of it, because, in fact, even if it is always presented differently, it is supposed to be the so-called blueprint for the TTIP agreement, that between the European Union and the USA. That is why this question here and today is indeed urgent and weighty, and the points that we are going to discuss here will, in my opinion, lead to the fact that, first of all, we have to clarify who represents something here, also in the house, but above all in the government, which is actually the situation, especially with regard to corporate property rights, because there is really the fun of getting a corporate justice against every European standard in the legal and judicial spheres by means of these agreements on the back door. However, it will also be the question of how transparent it is, because what I have here are some of the protocols or documents that one should not publish without a doubt, although in Brussels the European Commission is sitting at the negotiating table with the business lobbyists. We Members of Parliament are allowed to look at the final draft at TTIP and CETA, which is already under negotiation in Austria, but should not actually work outside, but, as I have told the Minister of Economic Affairs and Vice-Chancellor in reply to a letter, the Austrian social partners are already involved in the feedback and evaluation process. – Then you have to explain this to us. We're going to get closer to that. The non-governmental organisations, the civil society organisations, can stand in the back. The Federal Government and the European Commission show them the long nose, but with your Haberers in the Chamber of Commerce and in the Industrial Union you sit together to evaluate this matter. [[He-Rufe at ÖVP]] It won't go out! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Lopatka: You were in Palermo too long!]] Yeah, yeah, we're going to deal with this. I'm glad you're taking part. So so much on the question of transparency. Finally, we want to know – and this is actually the main cause of our urgent needs, because tomorrow and the day after – that's very much about: What is the position of the Austrian Federal Government? Since the “Kronen Zeitung” – and this has been a long time ago, and I welcome that essentially – a so-called campaign is driving, which is unbelievable, the Federal Chancellor has found the right words and explains why this group justice can be avoided in all cases. [[Abg. Darabos: Reverse! Reverse!]] [[Abg. Brosz: (in the direction of Abg. Darabos) That would be the first time!]] But we will have to talk, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, about what your position is and how it is with that of the Federal Chancellor and what our Austrian representatives are doing in the negotiations at the European Table in Brussels. The desavowers prove that the Federal Chancellor: While the one flashing here in the house and everywhere on the left, turn right with your representatives in the negotiations. That's unworthy! And that's what we're going to have to deal with. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Finally, it will also be about who has something to say in this country at all, and I hope – but I know that you are very strongly arguing and thinking in this direction, and I also hope that you will support and present the necessary argumentarium – that in the end, should it be next or next year – things will come to the floor, thank God, also because of our initiatives – yet to come so far, the Austrian Parliament, the National Council, as well as the other parliaments in Europe. There is also a very big dispute about this, it is once again the Commission, which is not always, but unfortunately, sitting on the wrong side. [[Abg. Lopatka: This has long been decided!]] There you see that you should keep an eye on that too. The documents are also accessible to you, Mr Klubobmann. That is because you would know that the European Commission is persistently pursuing a different line. [[Abg. Lopatka: Not anymore!]] It is true, however, that the Member States, above all Germany, not Austria, Germany, are equipped with opinions – and we will come to them – which, in my view, is also very plausible, which are so-called mixed agreements, which means that the national parliaments, in other words, you here, we are together, are responsible. [[Abg. Lopatka: Austria too! Austria too!]] That's why a dispute in the matter is also on its way. [[Abg. Lopatka: There is a Commission opinion!]] Today we will only take a short look at it because first of all the basic lines have to be clarified and what position Austria represents at all. [[Abg. Lopatka: Artificially creating problems!]] We still have time until tomorrow and the day after that, because Austria – and I have looked at it again – is the most up-to-date statements – just as Germany reports about the Commission or directly to the representatives of the Canadian Government that, as we say so beautifully, we have not eaten it for a long time. Germany and other countries have already done this. Austria is missing in the list again. But let's start from the beginning. I would like to predict that we have an excellent relationship in the exchange of arguments and letters in this matter, with regard to dates, but also partly in the committees here with the Minister for Economic Affairs. [[Abg. Lopatka: Then why the artificial excitement?]] [[Call of the Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek.]] That's not an artificial excitement. Let us speak to Mr Lopatka, and then let us turn to Mr Vice-Chancellor again. Mr Lopatka said that the Greens would be artificially excited here. The story is just the one – I like to tell you again –: Austria is not in the number of those who take place in the real negotiations as is publicly done here. And that's the dilemma! Look, Mr Lopatka, that's why we're talking here. By the way, this is a massive contribution to the resurgence of political corruption. You wanted to re-start the government, and what do we have for a situation now? – Mr. Chancellor explains about important media in the country more than half the Republic that Austria is marching there, and the negotiating representatives of Mr. Federal Minister or whoever they are – that will be clear with this urgent question – are officially negotiating for the Republic of Austria in the other direction. But we can already be excited, in the name of the people who should also represent you, and will not be involved in this cover-up. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But we were actually at the Minister of Economic Affairs and Vice-Cancellor. In the case itself, one can be really different, regardless of the company's rights of action. That is what I am saying, because that makes the problem worse. Perhaps this is even superfluous, which, by the way, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany always claims that there would be no need for the rule of law in developed states such as the Atlantic. But it's inside, the dangers are immanent, that's a fire accelerator for everything that's dangerous here anyway, which you don't see as dramatic, but we're different, and that's what we're going to do now. Free trade: I would be in favour of putting the word “free” there, because that has little to do with freedom. Freedom for whom? We have been presented a bunch of studies, as always, by all possible economists, mostly men, which should not bring all of that. There, too, the Austrian representatives were eager to pray. That'll be too questionable once. This is indeed – we had discussed it before – an ancient textbook, already in the interwar period and beyond – the good old neoclassics; today, the political representatives would rather be the neoliberals, who could feel here at all times – that this would automatically lead to prosperity growth, also to growth, as one wanted it so much, and to jobs and so on. Well, yes! Yeah, uh, but under what conditions? And isn't that problematic? This would work if the standards were the same everywhere, because then there is not the race down, but especially if cost-truth existed everywhere, which is not the case. Because of the different standards, there can be no such thing, because at different costs it is produced, most of the time the environment is ruined, perhaps less in the US now, but I am afraid so, and in many other countries human rights are still being disregarded, people are being oppressed and even social standards are not comparable. This leads to cost distortions, and the political question is: Which standards do we want to move on? This would, by the way, be an opportunity to use these international negotiations. I follow the debate in the Federal Republic of Germany, where the debate is also held among the critics: Yes, can we not use this to be global blueprint for better standards? I think this is actually a right approach, just: Then it would have to be that way. But back to the naked textbook. – Yes, everything great, everything great, including economic epigones, which are there, because they are pretended to be the same conditions everywhere. Under these conditions and other assumptions, it is already clear in normal economic thinking that this leads to more output. Yeah, logical. But do you know what that is? The world is quite different. This is a weekend and sunshine economy. You can always have that. If every weekend the sun shines, it has 30 to 35 degrees, we put on all bathing pants, bathing suit, bikini and sit on the beach, then it's great. I don't know if you've experienced that every weekend since your childhood. With these Weekend Economics you will not get far in this context. I will now quote a few papers to you, which shows that the representatives of the small and medium-sized enterprises – so they call themselves in Germany; there is a statement from the Federal Association of the Medium-sized Economy – especially in connection with the special rights of claims for corporations, on which we are focusing, that the matter is quite different. I have a copy with you and you to paint the place extra. [[The speaker hand over a paper to Federal Minister Mitterlehner.]] Because I'm not sure if you've always really got that all. That's clearly what it says: “The investor-state dispute resolution mechanism” – these are these famous ISDS clauses – “is in the planned TTIP agreement” – but this is always in line with the CETA agreement – “to reject unnecessary and strict between the European Union and the USA. The proposed rules are detrimental to the medium-sized economy, have the rule of law and are at the expense of the EU Member States." Then it will be carried out for a long time, how this affects the medium-sized economy. The arguments further argue: “Because of the high average process costs” for these superfluous operations – but they are not superfluous because certain large corporations attach an interest to them, that’s why it’s also inside; don’t be naïve! – “In practice, medium-sized companies cannot use the ISDS mechanism. The ISDS mechanism favours large corporations that can circumvent such applicable national law and state jurisdiction. Should a corresponding mechanism be integrated into the TTIP Agreement in the form currently under discussion, this would lead to massive negative consequences for Member States of the European Union and the medium-sized economy.” – Just as I have argued before. What's in Austria? What does Mr Leitel do again? – This is actually on the other side. I don't know if I can say on yours. That's an interesting position at all. In the Putin question, he has been, as we know, rolling out the red carpet. In this direction, it is always argued with the euros in the eyes. With the United States with this agreement, we are going back in this direction. Just how it fits. That's not an attitude! This is not even an economic policy. This is not the case in Austria. [[Abg. Jarolim: That's a bit hard said, I think!]] No, that's right! We've got all the statements there. I can tell you what Mr Leitel has said about this, but it may not be so important if we turn to the next study, namely that of the Austrian Institute of Economic Research, that will perhaps be more familiar to you, 36 pages, short summary: ‘TTIP and its impact on Austria. A critical review of the literature.” The result: “TTIP is therefore not suitable for overcoming the current crisis.” – For example, the Austrian Economic Research Institute. You cannot, before the “Kronen Zeitung” jumped up there, even infected by the Chancellor, explain to us what would not come down to us for blessings. The basic story always remains the same: If, in order to end the argument, we do not have the truth of cost, in the best sense of the term, only because the entire transatlantic trade with its many tons does not pay close to what it causes in costs, this will automatically lead to these disadvantages. These are not the profits of prosperity, but these are losses of wealth, which are outsourced only to others: to the environment, to the future generations and also to workers in many of these countries, how much more so. That's the cost. However, the benefits are doubtful, as we have read here, and that is why this goes in the wrong direction from the outset. These are voodoo economists who go home here with house number economy, and this should become a little more critical to you. You can argue about everything, I respect other opinions there, and you can get in there. I will give you an example of where this is positive, but first of all one where the insanity lies: in the food and agricultural sectors. This is a wonderful example, but dramaticly bad. What should this bring if we are still pushing food from one direction to the other on the globe more and more under just this cost untruth? That's crazy! [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Right!]] What is the position in this area? In South America, in South-East Asia, the last large rainforests are wooded so that feed can be produced there that is used for those animals that we eat here in Europe. That's absurd! All these agreements, which you then euphemistically call Free Trade Agreements, are a freedom in this dead end that you just don't want to see in your comic growth euphoria. [[Congratulation with the Greens as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] A regional economy that protects against these growths is also a reasonable economy, and therefore it is not about this perverted free trade. So trade is perverted towards fair and reasonable trade. This is the basic list! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This does not help, at least for the time being, but goes in the wrong direction, especially in this field of food. What's the point of sending tons and tons of meat over and over the Atlantic hourly? What's that supposed to be, please? Except for the destruction of resources, except for climate damage, to the no longer possible. The whole agricultural sector on the globe now contributes more to climate damage than to the entire transport sector, because production is so perverted by this large-scale group economy. [[Abg. Lopatka: Who calculated this? I want to see the calculation!]] [[Abg. Wöger: Kogler study!]] This is not the main issue today. I'm just saying, The implemented rights of the Group worsen and perpetuate and speed up the problem that is essentially inherent in these things. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Lopatka: Voodoo economist Kogler!]] But, of course, there may also be positive things where trade in areas where this does not play such a role can, of course, be useful. This is for example in the high-tech industry, which is in the goods industry. There, it can be reasonable if, for example, very simple things like car components can be exchanged in a simpler way. I trust to say that. That's the car industry. That can make sense out of logic, but that's not the only thing. Why should we buy all this? Now we come to this question of transparency, which is missing, which you miss. The United States is dancing around us on the nose. I'm just saying what the European traders say. The United States tells us that all of this is “deservingly transparent”. The US would not be used to negotiations, and we should not be upset and stick to them. – That’s not how it will be! After all, there was a European who said: The EU is not Panama, because that is obviously the concern of the USA, because only then would we need these rights of the group. But let us not need as we have heard! That's what the chancellor says. We still have “Kronen Zeitung” articles and noch. [[The speaker holds up a stack of newspaper clippings.]] That's a list. That's half the federal government. In the meantime, all ministers are there except you and Mr. Kurz, who have been shown in the “Kronen Zeitung”. We will, because this is not going to happen now, then just put them on the Internet. All of these are “Kronen Zeitung” articles, which are now provided by SPÖ ministers anyway, by the ministers of your group, by half of the national government members and country leaders. [[towards ÖVP]] How is that now? Why can the Austrian ambassador be found on the 8th? In May, in Brussels, Austria is in favour of these investment protection clauses? And then he tacts around with others how to enlist the population. This is then the true face of Austrian diplomacy and politics. Now I ask you, that's inside anyway in the questions: Who disavows the Federal Chancellor? Are these any wild-willed negotiators who are no longer in your power, or are you standing behind it yourself? Who is disavowing the chancellor, who has challenged corporate rights since the beginning of this year, and who says that this is not going to happen? Yesterday he said here, we have to face it, he will do it. And if we want to know the position of Mr Vice-Chancellor, we should ask him ourselves. Let's do it today, too! So, and you're going to give the answer for this very reason: How can it be that this left-ish and right-hand turn game goes from the head of government? This game is unworthy. It is good that Parliament will be responsible. We'll take the right direction. [[Call the ÖVP:Responsible?]] Sure, we know it'll be in charge. [[Abg. Lopatka: That's the question, a big question!]] Yes, because the right side will prevail, just as we have already enforced that CETA will not be signed tomorrow. Be as you say so beautifully, man's enough, Minister, that tomorrow and the day after tomorrow it becomes clear what Austria represents for a position. First, explain it to the house, and if Vice chancellors and chancellors object, that will also be interesting if we find out here. Then you should agree by tomorrow.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e13806	In response to the question, Mr. Bundesminister für Wissenschaft, Forschung und Wirtschaft Dr. Mitterlehner spoke. Mr Vice-Chancellor, your speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e13828	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners at the gallery, we met just before! Dear readers of the “Kronen Zeitung”, as well as other newspapers that have to stand as witnesses to Mr. Kogler! Ladies and gentlemen, I should now like to say a few words on two issues that are generally on this issue. First of all, about urgency – and if I consider urgency, the second question is the question of drama. In the urgency, Mr Kogler, you have disagreed with yourself somewhere. You will initiate your urgent inquiry as follows: "The summit between the EU and Canada will take place tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. For this reason, this urgent request to the Minister of Economic Affairs is of utmost relevance and urgency." And so on. Now you've just meant, actually, that's not quite right, because tomorrow or on 25 is actually nothing. Although there is a meeting between Canada and the European Union, the texts are publicly exchanged once more but nothing paraphrases, nothing paraphrases. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Come on!]] [[Abg. Lopatka: Nothing, nothing happens there!]] The whole process – just listen to me, be so nice! [[Abg. Kogler: You should clear the Austrian position!]] The whole process of signing and implementation will take about one year, with all the objections, with all the drummum. First of all, it is about the corresponding presentation in Austria, which we have been negotiating since August, it is about a position in Austria, then it is about the Council of Economic Ministers, in this case trade ministers, then it goes to the European Parliament and the European Parliament to return to ratification in the individual national states. [[Abg. Brosz: Then it's too late!]] Mr Kogler, I am therefore first of all to say: I absolutely do not see the urgency you want to generate in connection with this request. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Secondly – this now applies to the listeners –: They are trying to create a certain drama by now asking questions that are of urgent concern to them. In the final effect you asked all these questions only a week ago; all these questions, including the question of the Federal Chancellor, everything. It was all clarified, but now you are pretending to be completely new, as if there were these eight parliamentary questions, the meetings with the NGOs and other parties at the Federal Chancellor with us, not even the other events, no transparency. You're pretending to be still the status. Secret agreement or something. [[Abg. Kogler: There is nothing in the parliamentary materials at all!]] I'll hold on to this. This panic, which you want to carry out, is not for the purpose of reconnaissance. I think you're trying to beat some sort of political little money out of it, and I don't think that's inconspicuous. This is not, in fact, a particularly positive attitude towards this whole matter. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I also say to you, when I hear words like “perverted free trade”, “crazy” – excuse me, but you will have followed that. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Yes, of course!]] I am now six years of Minister for Economic Affairs, for six years we have repeatedly discussed free trade agreements, with countries with which we have negotiated asymmetrically, because they were not industrial states. It was always the same question: Do we actually need investment protection agreements?, again and again the question: How is that going to live? – and it has always been a relatively unstressing process because it is lived. You only need to consider: A country benefiting from export, a country dependent on framework conditions, regulations designed accordingly, will either benefit or not in the event of existence and further development of such framework conditions. [[Abg. Kogler: Yes, but in which areas?]] How, do you think, will Austria have cut off in recent years? – I believe that the companies in Austria have benefited, but not only the companies, but also the employees in the companies. You should recognize this once over-ordered. In this context, I must say: Negotiations on such agreements are not always optimal. I have to say, in particular, what the TTIP is about, which is not the main focus today, I'm right about you. We have also discussed this more often, there were three points – I find transparency really remarkablely bad. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Thank God there are questions from the Greens, there you can create transparency!]] This is not from the EU, but from the American partners, and we are trying to strengthen and improve it. Second point – what you always address –: Lowering the standards. I find this argument deplorable. Even the one with the chlorinated shower doesn't really stand up to an appropriate comparison with Austria when you look at how the hendln are prepared for us. [[Abg. Kogler: I didn't talk about that at all!]] But if you want, we have also discussed reblue chocolates and others, well, all right, we continue to discuss this! [[Abg. Kogler: Don't do it!]] I think this story with the standards that these are lowered is simply impressively tragic. On the other hand, I have to tell you that we are still talking about a third point, namely investment protection. They refer to the example of Canada and say that there is an insanity as to how the standards are threatened and lowered. . I do not know if there are representatives of the Canadian Embassy, but Canada is an industrial state with standards that are at least as good in almost all areas as in Europe, in many areas, which are sustainable and others. [[Abg. Brosz: What do you need it for?]] That is, there is free trade there at a high level. I agree with you that we need to be careful that food is not an exchange that simply opposes global requirements, especially the CO2 targets. But you yourself have spoken about it: For example, if you get 11 percent cheaper conditions for car components, for components in the metal industry through a free trade agreement, this is a good thing. [[Abg. Kogler: Yes, right! I'll tell you!]] This means that both Europe and Canada will be able to act accordingly at a higher level. Now I am also telling you something about the topic of ISDS systems and investment protection. We have 2 800 such bilateral agreements worldwide. 2 800! Austria has alone, I don't know how many, but I think 60, and we have already had five or six companies that have complained. [[Abg. Kogler: But not with North America!]] Now I have to tell you something: Right now you're coming up with the idea and considering: If we ourselves are not accused and on the other hand only complain in a few cases, do we need that at all? I remember that as a student representative at the time Professor Kulhavy, I experienced this in the legal field when it came to a Rules of Procedure for the Faculty in Linz. We have drawn up a Rules of Procedure, and then he has said: If we really need the Rules of Procedure, it is actually too late, but because we have a Rules of Procedure, we will not need them. This is exactly the same background as in the Investment Protection Agreement! If you have rules, you won't need them in most cases. Therefore, one has to choose the procedure – and I am now with you – to set the extent, having the “right to regulation” to be able to implement certain standards afterwards. If you want them, you really have to check if you need them to that extent. That is why we have a consultation mechanism at EU level, which will help to protect investment. That is exactly the same opinion as Mr Bundeskanzler. We have an official position – I come to the questions immediately – and this has, of course, been the negotiating line of Austria, also coordinated with the Federal Chancellery. But like Mr. Sigmar Gabriel, like Mr. Federal Chancellor, I also think: As a result of the negotiations so far, it has been found that one must discuss some position from the dispute resolution mechanism from the formulation. Now I am coming to speak to the Austrian EU ambassador whom you quote in your question and who we are going to put to you. There is already a corresponding passage, and this is interesting for me: He says we supported the negotiations, also supported investment protection, but he concludes: ‘Austria shares its concern that a conclusion of CETA negotiations before the end of the public consultations on investment protection under the TTIP negotiations undermines the credibility of the consultation process.’ A very clear definition: If you're already invited to Europe, that's what's waiting for you. This also applies to CETA. In the final effect, we will not be able to decide CETA if we do not wait for this other process. Summary: Separate! Look You are aware of the aspect of the free trade agreement and admit that this is actually something! Secondly, it is necessary to ensure, on the one hand, as much transparency as possible and, on the other hand, protection of investment, which corresponds to what should be done in the States. This can be found relatively relaxed, without agitation, but we are still coming to it, and somehow we will probably find reasonable rules. But if you need it as a theme to assure people a little bit, chlorhendl and so on – okay, then we'll have the discussion. I don't need that, not at the level. I'm surprised that you're getting up at this level, I really think that's very negative. [[In the case of the ÖVP, the members of the SPÖ and the Agg. Stroll.]] I come to the individual questions. To sum up, I would like to point out once again, if that is quite scarce – apologies, you even put it. [[Abg. Kogler: You always apostrophic chickens that I haven't even talked about in here!]] [[Call the ÖVP: You even put it!]] [[Calls and calls between Green MEPs and ÖVP.]] I'm sorry, but your time shouldn't be overstepped. Mr Kogler, would You'll be so nice to listen to me, because you'll ask me again: Is everything answered? I would just like to point out once again that most of the questions have been answered in response to questions, both in the EU Subcommittee and elsewhere, but I will try to do so together again. Questions 1 and 16: The CETA negotiating mandate, the basic mandate, was published in the Council on 27 March. On 12 April 2009, acting unanimously and as an A-point in the General Affairs Council, the additional mandate on investment protection was adopted unanimously. ==References== Austria was represented by Vice Chancellor Dr. Spindelegger at both Council meetings. In general, I hold fast so that there is no misunderstanding – we like to be misunderstanding – yes, you help with that. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Especially in the population in elections!]] Just because you once won a little bit. Wait, there are other choices. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In general, I would like to say... – If you already want to provoke me, you have to listen to that. [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: You didn't learn anything about it!]] [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: You really haven't learned anything about it!]] Mrs. Oberlehrer, thank you very much. Honestly, the “learning” and so on I can’t hear either. [[Abg. Lopatka: Mrs. Professor Glavischnig!]] Mrs. Professor, yes, as always. But I want to focus again on the seriousness of the question. [[New call of the abg. Glavischig-Piesczek.]] Excuse me, Mrs Glavischnig, but if you make such calls, which simply include something different than the answer to the question, then you must not be surprised if I repeat what you are calling in here, or if you stop it. Okay. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I'm allowed to continue – although, it's meaty, I don't care, I wanted to keep time, but if you want, I'll talk longer. [[Abg. Brosz: But the time you can only keep when you answer the questions!]] Yeah, if you calm down again. May I continue? [[Abg. Pirklhuber: You can speak on!]] [[Further calls to Greens, SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I know, I used to quote, too. It is not heard, it is not understood, it is not understood. That's Conrad Lorenz's, but he doesn't do anything, he wasn't bad either. [[New calls to the Greens.]] I would like to note what instructions are being given that this is the coordinated, general Austrian position, and the ministries concerned are always involved in the preparation of the instructions, but also the Federal Chancellery. An A-point is a point of acceptance, and a point of acceptance is not a point of discussion, which is why there has been no subsequent debate but merely the recommendation for approval. On questions 2 to 6, 17 and 18, 20, 22, 24, 26, 28 and 30 – there are always the same questions, only each agreement has been asked in detail; it therefore looks somewhat shortened in form, but is always the same question –: The Austrian position on CETA and all other issues in the field of EU trade policy is constantly being developed in an internal coordination process established in the BMWFW, in which all the ministries concerned and the social partners are involved. These are, in particular, BKA, BMEIA, BMF, BMASK, BMLFUW, BMVIT, BMJ, BMI and so on; on the part of the social partners, which I would like to talk about: WKÖ, Federal Chamber of Labour, ÖGB, Chamber of Agriculture, Association of Austrian Industrialists. [[Abg. Krainer: This is not a social partners!]] Please? - That's what I'm about to talk about. [[Abg. Krainer: Industrial union is not a social partners!]] Question 7: The list is final. Question 8: The text of the negotiation is set out in Article X 9.4. – not 9.3. – It is clear that disappointed expectations of investors can only be relevant insofar as they are based on concrete statements, that is, specific representations, by representatives of the host State, which the investor could legitimately rely on, which were essential for the investment decision and which were subsequently destroyed by the host State. This is basically the story with Vattenfall and others that in election promises something has been said, which has then been countercared by the laws. Questions 9 to 12 and 15: The CETA negotiation result was transmitted to the bodies involved for examination as part of the internal Austrian coordination process. Comments were shared by BKA, BMEIA, BMF, BMFLUW, WKÖ as well as BAK and ÖGB – not in a postal package – with us. The Austrian position was further co-ordinated within the framework of the previous meetings of the EU Trade Policy Council Committee, lastly on 12 December. ==References== The meeting report has already been sent to Parliament in accordance with Article 3 Z 10 of the EU Information Act. The fact that this is not the question then, because of the fact that The interim result is: What's the stand? – Whoever has not read it, I can say to him: The general part is assessed in a more positive way, the investment protection agreement is assessed by all, and this is likely to be in line with what is expected here. Questions 13 and 14 are as follows: Non-governmental organisations are not involved in the formal coordination process, but the BMWFW is organizing ongoing information events – the Industrial Union is seen as a social partners over, I believe, thirty years ago. [[Calls for Greens]] [[Abg. Brosz: belongs to the government too!]] Look, we already have a little longer in practice, but we can also discuss this procedure on other occasions. However, the BMWFW is organising ongoing information events to which non-governmental organisations are also invited. We have discussed or have found in the Committee that Greenpeace and others consider our information policy to be exemplary. We have therefore set up a further round of negotiations and information, including the EU chief TTIP negotiator, Mr Ignacio Garcia Bercero, on 8 May. October 2014 will arrive in Vienna and discuss and inform about it. The involvement of certain social partners on EU projects is regulated at law level in Austria: Economic Chamber Law, Labour Chamber Act, for ÖGB and LKÖ Federal Law on Opinions in the context of EU Law. On question 19: That's what we've actually discussed: Investment protection provisions and investor-state dispute resolution, ISDS, between industrialized countries with a highly developed legal system. It is the question of whether you need this in the final effect, if you look at yourself – I have the documents with them – against whom such a procedure has already been initiated. There is a corresponding presentation of the 2012 UNCTAD: Argentina 52 proceedings, Venezuela 34, Ecuador 23 and then sixth Canada 19. [[Abg. Zinggl: Well, 19 isn't nothing!]] So I do not want to approach them, but obviously in this case a corresponding dispute resolution mechanism would have had a certain meaning. If you read on what I didn't do now, then They find that Germany or Austria are almost not mentioned. That means – in Germany, I think, three cases are counted – we are essentially doing this very, very serious, there has been no complaints. There are, of course, arguments against which I have already mentioned them, and so we are in the material part of the debate. One can always discuss the extent, the mechanism. For example, one question that has been raised more often is: Can't you act with existing dishes? To this end, we have been told: In America, in the United States, but also in Canada, there is a jury system, i.e. with oaths, even for civil court proceedings. These are quite different problems, including the cost and so on, which would be regulated differently and better in such a procedure. That is why it is still being discussed. [[Abg. Pilz: But why should we change our legal system if the Americans have a bad system?]] We do not change our legal system. All the laws apply! We only have a special arbitration procedure for special offences. [[Abg. Kogler: But it is attacked by this!]] And there, too, one will be able to consider – that is precisely the subject of the consultation mechanism – whether one builds a new system there or whether one may find the way out with existing courts. However, because it is mentioned again and again – Mr Gabriel said this also in the media public – the German position is another: yes, it is in the final effect the one that has just come out during the negotiations. You're going to understand that. Question 27 is the same thing as has already been pointed out in question 19 concerning CETA. On question 31: Both the US and Canada have made it clear that if ISDS were not part of TTIP or CETA, the impact would have on the overall contract. I don't think I'd put this out any more now. This will be the result of further discussions and negotiations when our position is clear. The Commission fears that this could call into question the overall negotiations. I'd be worried about that – she'd be less concerned. But in the end, let's look at who really benefits and who doesn't. Of course, it is also one of the reasons why the German Federal Government – with all, including the Minister of Economic Affairs and others – has found that ISDS could be necessary under the circumstances that are still being examined, in the sense of the European overall interest in the overall agreement. On question 32: No, the TISA Agreement does not include any special claims and investment protection provisions on investor-state dispute resolution procedures. On questions 33 and 35: I can only speak for my place of business and not for the Federal Chancellor. As far as opinions are provided by the Federal Chancellery, they are intro duced and also transparent as regards information. We rely on transparency – I have mentioned it several times before, and it is also attested to us. The limits of our publication possibilities result from the legal situation and from EU legislation. The need to further develop this is not a question either. But the BMWFW is talking about this Please? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] [[Abg. Brosz shakes the head without repeating his call.]] No, I would also like to respond to calls, but I think that, honestly, to put an ungiven transparency to us is quite an exaggeration. [[Abg. Brosz: The transparency of the Federal Government in reply is generally “very high”!]] I mean, we've really presented everything – and in the final effect, you know exactly, actually against the law. But if you look in the “South German” at what there is for opportunities there, you can download it there. This is illegal, but anyone who wants it and is interested in it has it already. By the way, I have found: Some talk about it and have not been interested at all, have not read certain parts at all. This is the reverse process. But I don't want to put that in here. I also said this clearly – the debate in the EU Committee was a little better. But be it. In this sense: We also improve our web and other services on the Internet. On question 34, I would like to add that the CETA Agreement will at least be accessible to the public on the occasion of the ratification. And now there are crucial questions, questions 36 to 39: The question is: Is this a mixed agreement or not a mixed agreement? Why? – A mixed agreement is only possible if other legal instruments have been dealt with in the agreement. If it were an exclusive trade agreement, then overall competence would be with the EU and therefore there would be no possibility of ratification on the part of the national Member States. That is why, in our opinion, Commissioner De Gucht was in error when he said that he would have to tell the ECJ that there is no need for ratification. This will not apply to CETA because other parts are affected accordingly – parts of tax law, but also corresponding recognition directives, which calls for professions. Therefore, from our point of view, it is a mixed agreement, not only from our point of view – that is not crucial – but also from the point of view of the other Member States. The new Commissioner Malmström is likely to share this position. It will now put itself in a hearing in Parliament, and you can be sure that this question will be addressed to it there. It is similar with the other two agreements, and of course it is clear: As long as TTIP and the other agreement are not finished, it is obviously necessary to make a final assessment now. We agree on this, I believe. When this will be done in 2018, this question will also be asked accordingly. We assume that this agreement will most likely also be a mixed agreement. So, I think that is essentially the answer to the questions. We would also like to pass on written material if it is necessary. I would even like to point out: We have a lot of information material! The entire agreement has 1,500 pages. This is, of course, a little more extensive. But I already believe that it has also been presented, also in the sense of the audience and the voters: Austria has always benefited from a free trade agreement, if it is done properly, as an export state – always! – and we have never had a negative problem. [[Abg. Kogler: These have been other world regions!]] And on the other hand, we are talking about minimizing possible problems as far as investment protection is concerned in all the negotiations that are now under way. You have also noticed that the EU has already developed certain investment protection provisions under the CETA Agreement, as Austria has already formulated this “right to regulation” within its own framework in 2008, which means a clear improvement in the situation. In this sense, I hope that this little dispute will not disturb the overall development or evaluation. But in the final effect, I think we also need this serious debate, because the citizen deserves a clear, objective information, and not anything built-in or otherwise, neither from one side nor from the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e14366	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, with each club having a total speaking time of 25 minutes. Mrs. Klubobfrau Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek has been reported to speak. 8 minutes of voluntary speaking time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e14393	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, I believe, in principle, that, with far-reaching decisions, whether this is at European level or at Austrian level, we do not only need profound democratic will-building, but also that it should be part of our democratic culture. This is not realized in this case. I quote De Gucht, who says to the CETA agreement: “It is clear that this is one of the most ambitious agreements we have concluded so far.” So we have already negotiated an agreement here on the one hand, which has been clearly stated by the Commissioner responsible, that this is a very large work. On the other hand, there has been – and this cannot be denied – no democratic will-building, no democratic debate and no decision in this House or outside this House in the context of civil society participation. It is all the more regrettable that, in my view, a huge question mark stands over the transparency of the Austrian position after this answer to the urgent request. Yesterday we heard the Federal Chancellor, who represented a hundred percent of the position: I reject special charges! We don't need that! – He argued this down to the detail. And that was not the first time, but he has always represented this position in various media over the past few weeks and months. Mr. Vice-Chancellor, correct me, but: What impression do an Austrian and an Austrian have when the Federal Chancellor says something? – I suppose they want to be able to rely on it in any form. And with that, I am at the point where I feel that this federal government has still not learned something about it, namely that you should be as open and honest as possible with the population and that people should not make a green for a red or a blue for a green or anything that has nothing to do with reality at all. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I refer to the 133 million € that the hypo has cost before the election, to the so-called detachment of the economy, to the promised tax reform that will come immediately, and so on and so on, and I would have liked to have at least in this case now – it is very delicate and very difficult questions that lie on the table – that one shows a little more, let us say, also appreciation and respect for the population who really have a nose on this point – I do not want to express it as I would say in Carinthian. I'll tell you that honestly, too. So this contradiction: yesterday the Federal Chancellor, today you, who tell you, the position was always coordinated with the Federal Chancellor – of course! – with the Federal Chancellery. Time and again you say: We have the same opinion here. I would like to tell you why the question was urgent and important today: The German Federal Government does not go as this government did in this Canada-Europe summit and says: We are basically in agreement, but the German Federal Government says: We do not agree with the content, we do not agree with the result and we do not agree with the procedure. [[Vice chancellor Mitterlehner: That's not true!]] Yes, of course! The special claims rights in Germany have been discussed much more intensively and much more critically than you have shown today only in approaches. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] On the economic impact: So now – I say it a little bit like that – you can be arrogant and say that economy and free trade are always great. But when it comes to really more precise questions – how: What does a shift in trade volume, which may grow in Canada and the USA, mean, but it may be lost within Europe in the context of the fact that we have anything but good economic data in the euro zone, in Germany, in France and in Italy? – I could have imagined from you a somewhat more qualified debate or that you said: What does that mean in the shift? Because it is not so banal that it simply grows in heaven. The studies on the table also say the smooth opposite. These say, if there are any benefits, then only very, very long, and they are also talking about the shifts to which it comes on the European internal market. Let us talk about what is happening in the European internal market if you would like to have an economic discussion. But I've missed this painfully today that you're looking at it a little more serious and a little more profound. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I think that it is not only the right, but also the obligation of an opposition party in the Austrian National Council to ask again and again at all levels, to work on this confidentiality policy over months. And it should also be in your interest for us to make an effort and to try to raise awareness of the people on this issue by means of questions – written, oral and also here today – and to make them more clear and transparent. I am very surprised that you see it critically that an opposition party is trying to bring light into the dark, that we are asking questions – rather than being grateful for them and that we would be able to contribute together to weakening this policy of secrecy, dominated by the European level and by the US. There are negotiations in the economic field, which are not at all secret. In the field of climate protection, for example, it is going to happen that every negotiating document is open to the public at international climate conferences. All documents are also generally discussed publicly within the framework of the WTO organisation. There is also no argument for me, as before, why You have not resisted this policy of secrecy with your hands and feet and why you have not done it today. They say it's not gratifying. But there is something else but to say it is not pleasing. You can also say: We don't want this anymore! In this way, a free trade agreement with the European population will never be enforceable! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I don't know if you work in other political areas in the government in such a way that what the Federal Chancellor says doesn't have anything to do with the real Austrian position in the least, then I have to wonder somehow. And I would really ask that there is at least either an information of both of you in common here, or we must present it to the public in such a way that the Chancellor here represents the opinion of a private person who has no relevance at all, the opinion of the private person Werner Faymann, and that what you said today is the Austrian position – and that means that Austria officially supports these special claims rights and therefore has no problem at all. [[Abg. Kogler: Exactly!]] [[Abg. Kogler: Breakfast Director!]] [[Call the ÖVP: Who?]] [[Abg. Kogler: The chancellor!]] And I'll tell you once again, professionally, if you say that has no effect at all: The Austrian legal system, the Austrian civil law system, the Austrian commercial court system is absolutely exemplary! There is no need for any company, whether a Canadian or a US-American, to worry that any investments made here will be taken for granted, destroyed or otherwise politically destroyed. We have an excellent legal system in Europe and Austria! It is not necessary here to provide for special commissions behind closed doors, lawyers and lawyers without a superior instance, without legal protection by a civil court or any other legal body. [[Abg. That's what he did!]] [[Abg. Kogler: But it's inside! Read your materials! – That’s incredible!]] This is a cave-out of our legal protection system, and you can only take a negative position for that! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would also like to say one more on the subject of chlorhun [[Call the ÖVP:Panikmache!]] I also think the debate is very populist and shortened by you, because you do not want to deal at all with issues that concern certain types of production in the US in the food sector, which brutality has the degree of industrialization that has achieved. These are cities! – This is a development that no one in Austria wants and that many people in Europe also firmly reject. [[Abg. Haubner: We don't want that either!]] [[Abg. Lopatka: Who wants that?]] We want small-structured agriculture. We don't want slaughterhouses where in the week – this week! – 360 million chickens are slaughtered. [[Abg. Lopatka: Who wants that?]] [[Abg. Kogler: You're working on it!]] And just because the hygienic conditions are getting so bad, they are then immersed in a chlorinated bath. It is not about the chlorhendl itself, but about the cultural question: How do we produce our food, and how do we deal with animals? Do you have any sparks of respect that you can see this critically? – So I really only heard very arrogant talk today and little real, well-founded debate on the matter.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e14608	Mr Cap has been reported to speak. I set a voluntary speaking time limit of 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e14629	So I must honestly say that I had a problem with your speech, Mrs Klubobfrau Glavischnig, because you had not just been sitting here a minister who was caught up in a fresh act, how he secretly signed something under all legal regulations, which is now a decision and binding for Austria, with which we now have the dispute resolution procedure and all that on the table. [[Call to the Greens: If you are in the government, it is understandable!]] That's not true! [[Abg. Kogler: What?]] [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: It's done!]] But that does not justify this kind of rhetoric, because it does not help us either. This is my criticism of how you brought this here. [[Abg. Kogler: Say something about the questions!]] Look, the problem is quite different. You only need to look at a comment from Wolfgang Böhm in the "Presse". The following was described in the following statement on September: "The rejection of a Europe-wide citizens' initiative to stop the negotiations is the last highlight of the disaster. The legal justification may convince misguided lawyers, but certainly not the dubious part of the population. On the contrary. Now it will be said that the EU Commission is listening only to lobbyists of large corporations, but not to citizens." This project is ‘politically destroyed’. This is the point where one has to put it: that there have indeed been attempts to develop circumvention strategies here – once, not involving national parliaments, then the European Parliament again, then to see as far as possible that it does not go into the government at all. [[Abg. Hübner: What does “give” mean?]] He would have preferred to have, Commissioner De Gucht: Go, sign, and it's true! - That was the consideration. And that's where I think the criticism has to take place. To create and say now, parts of the government or all in the government are actually cumpans of these plans, that is unfair. [[Abg. Kogler: The chancellor speaks differently!]] You know, I sympathize with many analyses in your urgent, prosetext. I have looked at this very carefully, and unlike yesterday's urgent one, I must honestly say, there are a lot of things that simply vote right, for example the debate on the standards. I can of course make myself and say that this is a good opportunity, now we are discussing European standards – in terms of consumer protection, in the social field – then we can take a look at: Do we need this or do we go down with it a little? This improves our competitive conditions. Now I'm saying, A free trade agreement in itself is nothing bad. The question is: What does it want? [[Abg. Kogler: How does it work?]] And – to give examples now – there is expropriation with countries in the Third World where corruption is, and there is no security of investment, of such funds and of such contracts, I totally understand that. What I do not understand is the equation of the 28 Member States of the European Union with so-called banana republics, and then we say that now I actually need this conciliation body and this ISDS, because if it has proved successful there, it also proves itself here. I simply cannot accept this equality, and that is the criticism we have with it. A certain investment protection – yes! But the other way round, the international corporations that come and invest here are not a charity! They come here, look at the situation and just want to make a profit. And what is the task of politics? - To regulate that! [[Abg. Kogler: Right!]] Winning is in itself nothing unreasonable – but it is not at the expense of standards that we struggle laboriously in this house have decided to achieve for the Austrian population! That is the crucial question! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Look, this is such a classic example: Is it a mixed contract or is it none? – Well, they thought about it in Brussels, and what they said is: It is not a mixed one; we are saving ourselves the national parliaments, they are still so incalculable. Of course, it is a mixed agreement, and Mr Vice-Chancellor said it earlier: These areas of competence concern not only ISDS, but also transport and other areas such as occupational safety, professional qualification and so on. You can read this today in the “Day Show. ” It is therefore proven that we do not need to discuss this at all. Finally, there is a new Commissioner, and he will soon declare himself clearly in the European Parliament, and then we will continue to see. But this is a process that also corresponds to the volume. And whatever bothers me is if a large group now complains of the Germans for stopping or moratorium at nuclear power plants by 3.5 billion. – Well, “super”! You will describe this in your urgent request in such a striking way: There is a list of lawyers, from which they are selected, they are put together in different roles and then determine whether one has 5, 10, 15 billion or no matter how much to “burn” because one has participated in certain legislative initiatives that have reduced investment or profit expectations, or whether there is even an “indirect expropriation” – that is a sweet formulation at all! [[Abg. Pirklhuber: That's what it looks like! That's how it is! “Super” business!]] [[Abg. Kogler:... property already above the general public!]] You can't do that, because that means nothing but that they say: There are two types of free trade agreements, those with the third world countries, and then there are those with the “comic” EU that have living standards, social standards, consumer protection standards that are simply too high for us, because then we cannot really do our business, sell our products and make our investments. - And that's where we have to say no! In fact, one should not go to the speaker's desk here and sow distrust, but make a national shoulder closure, because that concerns everyone in Austria. [[Abg. Kogler: Yes! We've already started!]] All of them are affected, and there you should actually keep together, and now not so charming, but still a little, let us say, above all smile, as you, Mrs Klubobfrau Glawischnig-Piesczek, have just done, if I may allow this quiet, small criticism here from the speaker's desk. Therefore, one should try to put the argument in this direction. I could quote other things to you. Also this question about the precautionary principle – quite right! Only when I have abdominal pain or if I'm very bad and I'm going to complain will this product be removed from the market?- Oh, my God! I would like to have a clarification before the product lands on my table or I have access to this product in any way. We don't need to talk about it, that's quite clear. [[Abg. Steinbichler: Where do you know?]] These are the basics, and in reality this must also be represented and enforced. What does that mean? This means quite simply that we have to step in to ensure that, if there is a result at all, it has the normal, transparent way to go. So far, transparency has gone hand in hand, mistrust has been sown, the press has already criticised this, and the question has always been justified: Why did you make this so mysterious? If you make something so mysterious, there's usually a plan that you don't want the public to know something. – We all have nothing to do with this! That's crucial. On the contrary, we want all of this to continue to be as transparent as possible, and if it really is getting closer and closer, it must become more transparent and be as open as possible. And the ISDS can actually “hold” themselves in order to say that in good Viennese. [[Abg. Kogler: In the hair’s lubrication, as you say!]] The Federal Chancellor yesterday explained in all its clarity and details why he is particularly opposed to this institution. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Where did he explain this?]] It is really the circumvention of our legal system! – The Federal Chancellor has clearly explained this – for the Federal Government. [[Abg. Kogler: He speaks sharper than I do!]] [[Abg. Barbara Rosenkranz: Where? Where?]] [[Abg. Kogler: And then nobody says it in Canada! In retrospect was again “kana there! ”]] If we are at all so far as there are results, there must be a decision by the Federal Government, then this is going to come into the house, and I do not assume that there is a signature somewhere before, with an order to a Commissioner that he signs something, because that is why we should be responsible here too. Such a thing, without transparency and without consent, I can hardly imagine. And again: We should simply work together, also and especially if we have so many contact points, not to sow distrust, but really try to be cooperative.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e14904	Mr Haubner is now on the floor. I set 6 minutes of voluntary speaking time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e14926	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister has today answered very serious and very competent many of these open questions in his answer to the urgent question. [[Abg. Kogler: Say something to the German middle class!]] It is not a process that has just been started today, but it has been a lot of interviews, there has also been a discussion in the EU Subcommittee, so I have to say towards the Green Group: Dramatize this not always so panicous and don't say it's so urgent now and it's never been talked about such things! [[Call the Greens: Where?]] The fact is that this agreement is being intensively discussed, especially with regard to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Vice-Cancellors, and he has also given very clear answers to it today. It is not paraphatic, it will not be paraphrased tomorrow, but it will come to us in a certain time. It is about implementation within this one year, and in this time frame we will continue to deal intensively with this agreement. Somehow I feel a little moved back to 1994. There the Greens were massively opposed to the European Union, listed what was going to happen to us, and simply called for a no. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek:... and you were against the Danube island!]] And today you are also glowing EU supporters. The way is also right, because we see that in the last 20 years we have increased the export rate from 34.8 to 57.4 percent. That is to say, the export economy is very important for Austria and also for the European Union. That is why, I believe, Austria plays an excellent role in the international concert. Austria is now, and I said that yesterday, an export country. We earn 6 out of 10 € abroad and with abroad. There are 47 000 Austrian companies in export, that is what it is. We already have 62 bilateral agreements with other countries, and these are simply the basis for our successful economy, ladies and gentlemen. Two trade agreements should now be added, one with Canada and one with the USA. Our access is that economic agreements are there to bring benefits to both sides. The focus is on facilitating trade, investment and so on. However, economic agreements should also provide legal certainty. That is also a very important point. The following shall be taken into account before completion: The agreements shall not be a deregulation agenda. They must not be allowed to do so, and there must be no evasion of the European standards of protection, but the Minister has already done so. But this is also the fact, and we must also insist on this: According to Germany and Italy, the USA is the third most important trading partner in Austria. If we want to further develop these relations, of course the reliefs that this trade agreement is intended to bring are desirable. Of course, Austria could benefit greatly from this free trade agreement disproportionately. But we must, and this, of course, is also our access to the citizens' concerns. If there are problems there, I can only stress once again: Of course, there should not be a disclosure of these European standards of protection, and the agreements must also respect these European standards. Secondly, Canada is also an important trading partner for Austria. In recent years, Austrian exports to Canada have risen by more than 5.4 percent. That means we have a trade volume of €1.3 billion. What this means, of course, for the Austrian economy and for the companies and therefore also for jobs, I do not need to explain here, because you know that. From our point of view, the benefits of this proposed agreement are simply outweighed, and the concerns need to be resolved and dealt with away. The chances that this agreement will not only benefit the large ones but, of course, many small and medium-sized enterprises will certainly be available. If we do it properly, then such trade agreements are also very important to shape economic cooperation and in the sense of creating new jobs and ensuring existing jobs. Whether we agree to the agreement in this way is an open question. The Minister has also noted this in detail. At the end of the negotiations, each EU Member State decides on its own initiative. I think it has become quite clear today that we in the Austrian Parliament are going to deal with it again. If the contracts are not good, we will not sign them. If they are okay, then they offer new opportunities, and these are definitely opportunities that we urgently need in Austria and in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e14990	The next item is the speech by Mrs Rosenkranz. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e15011	Mr. Vice-Chancellor! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Vice-Chancellor, you have now presented what you have been able to do in committee: You have, as you mentioned it at the time, looked at the matter relaxed. But I can say that you actually threw nebula grenades today. If, anyway, everything is so clear when everything is open, if everyone, as you have said, can have any information against the law, then why do we actually talk about it? – In reality, the opposite is the case, the opposite of what you wanted to communicate here. First of all: Why is the information ‘ contrary to the law ’ and not open in the sense of the law? And second: Without the intensive effort of environmental organisations and associations, it would not at all have been so far that what you, Mr Cap, have called circumvention strategy and what you can actually call circumvention strategy has not been successful. It was very important that these organizations have taken care of this, as you have not progressed with the strategy you have so perfectly connected to today, namely keeping everything under the cover. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, and please read the reports of the press agencies 14 days ago, if the agreement should have been concluded tomorrow or the day after, that is not a question at all, and of course only the decisive intervention and the protest that has then prevailed will result in the fact that it is not initialled, but that it is still being spoken. You've done this quite differently. You said: What are you excited about? And at all, the urgency is questionable, because we are still talking! – This urgency is absolutely given because without this urgency would have been completed tomorrow or the day after tomorrow! Perhaps now away from the political one you put far ahead of the subject, although you claim yourself to be factual, and make others the accusation that they would agitate and polemize. Let's get to the subject: Of course, this CETA agreement is extremely important. It's always said that's a kind of blueprint. This is not because someone is thinking that it could be a good agreement and that you do the other thing, but it is a blueprint with inner logic, because it creates a new basis of fact. The standards are then, I would say, lowered, and any other free trade agreement only refers to the standards already lowered by the CETA agreement. So you can't take it exactly enough, because TTIP and the TiSA agreement will be very much the way we bring it together at CETA. Secondly, What does this agreement mean, above all,? It would like to see, as a headline everywhere, the removal of non-tariff barriers to trade, i.e. those non-tariff barriers. – We have to make this understandable to the citizens and democrats. By the way, you have not tried that at all in your answer. I want to know who somehow understood from the listeners what you wanted to say. This means that not only the customs duties should be eliminated, but also all those standards that have so far prevented the exchange of goods. So what can be placed on the market in one country must also be able to market without further procedures and applications in the other country. – Quite clearly, probably introduction lecture economy: Of course, the same standards follow. Of course you can. However, we already have serious doubts, because the Anglo-Saxon variant of the free market economy and the continental variant of the social market economy differ, at the latest since Röpke, in some points, for example as regards the precautionary principle. The fishing axes say that if you've had bad luck and for example you've suffered a health damage, then there's a procedure, a process that lawyers deserve excellent, and then you'll see if you take the product off the market. We in Europe believe that we are reviewing products before they can cause health damage. That alone is one thing that makes a huge economic cultural difference. Why do we always have to adjust as said in an intermediate call? It could also be that the European variant of the social market economy has advantages that we can recommend to the fishing axes! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Thirdly, however, to what is not at all possible. What is not going on is first of all this approach. Of course, it was opaque. And once again I say it: If You would not have been forced – you and those who are behind this agreement – then you would not have discovered it at all. Of course it was opaque! And of course, what makes people particularly perplexed is that you – and that also needs to be lifted out – talk to split tongues. You mentioned that the chancellor said something about this yesterday. – I asked three times where. Probably in the “Kronen Zeitung. ” He should have said it in Brussels! You're talking to a split tongue! Here in Austria, you tell one thing you think people want to hear it, and in Brussels you do the other. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You can't be surprised if people don't want politics anymore, because it's actually our duty, just as we're all sitting here, to give information – people don't have to go after the information! We want democrats, and democracy needs citizens. That's all right. Democracy, however, needs, above all, politicians who do not hide their actions, but explain them openly and clearly. Then, as in Switzerland, we are doing well with direct democracy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But now to the very last, to investment protection. I can say briefly: This was a procedure that served to make trade agreements with States not well developed by the rule of law, in other words with developing countries, with emerging countries, in order to protect investment in these countries. It is simply unexplainable, and we should show it far from us that in our developed legal system such a thing is at all necessary. Now, of course, you see this yourself, because in the Anglo-Saxon jury system, which is to come about here – by the way, they are not judges, but lawyers who are proposed to each of a party, the third of the World Bank – it is of course lawyers who have an interest in serving their customers as best they can to get another order. This is not an objective legal process, it is a question of competition, and above all of competition in the individual legal systems. Why do we want to get involved in this system, if you say it will be applied at most two or three times? - Yeah, it's supposed to be gone! We cannot introduce a system on the grounds that we do not really need it and it will not apply. That's very dangerous. Without this ISDS agreement, the US and Canada will not agree to this agreement. Well, don't be. It must also be asked why our potential contracting partners place particular emphasis on this point if they are supposed to be so unimportant if they do not come into use at all. Finally, a few words on the subject of mixed procedures. You have told us that mixed procedure means that we can decide here once again that not only is the European Council's approval decisive, but that the Austrian Parliament is again being dealt with. You, Minister Mitterlehner, say that you think it is a matter which can be referred to as a mixed procedure. Mr Klubobmann Lopatka has, at least so, constantly called something different. I'd like to hear from you here: Is it a mixed procedure? Will you enforce this legal view in Brussels? And will there be a vote here in Parliament?
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e15133	Klubobfrau Dr. Reciprocating. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e15154	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Representatives on the government bank! Colleagues in the House! Dear guests! Dear taxpayers! Tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, CETA, this free trade agreement with Canada, should be decided. As we know, this has now been put on ice. The content of this agreement has only recently become known to us, because of course these negotiations have also taken place with the exclusion of the public. According to media reports, the content is currently exclusively available to EU Parliamentarians in 1,500 pages of legal English, and I now assume that most Members will not really understand the content. They will have no choice but to the Members of this House when they adopted the ESM at the time. Indeed, as we know, red, black and green have fulfilled and voted in favour of the rule from Brussels and, in fact, the Austrian taxpayers have been handing over the debts of Greece and other countries as well as various large banks, and this has been a fatal decision. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] When the CETA Agreement enters into force, the discussion about TTIP is largely lacking, since almost all American companies have subsidiaries in Canada, which, of course, have access to the European market through this detour, while vice versa, it is not the case that European companies are granted access to the US market. I therefore think that this has been very unfairly negotiated. Europe and, above all, Austria can truly be adjudicated here. But it's not every day. The agreement is not yet being concluded. The EU has not yet initialled, because it is unclear whether the 28 individual parliaments have to agree here or not. In my opinion, however, it is not a vision of light when it is argued that TTIP is a mixed agreement. and therefore obliged to vote, because that does not mean that the national parliaments have anything to say. National parliaments can only ratify, i.e. a discussion or a routing is not possible. This whole discussion is a purely label-difference to favour the citizens that there is some kind of co-determination here. I also assume that, as always, our government politicians are doing what is expected of them in Brussels, they are therefore going to nagging the free trade agreement without previously optimizing the outcome of the negotiations for entrepreneurs, especially the small and medium-sized ones, for workers, for farmers and for all of us as consumers. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Mr Bundeskanzler and Mr Vice-Chancellor, I ask you to take an active part in the negotiations at the European Council. You cannot accept that the assets of the Austrians are being negotiated in dark areas. I am therefore saying 'in dark areas' because the EU works in this way, according to Mr Juncker's own definition. He said literally some time ago: “We decide something, then put it in the room and wait for some time, what happens (...). If there is no great cry and no uprising, because most do not understand what was decided, then we continue." This must not be the way in which our country is now bound to do so! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] One thing is clear: In any case, the national parliaments remain outside. There is now a failure with the EU Commission, especially in Germany, but the legal situation is clear. CETA has been secretly negotiated and can no longer be strapped, and TTIP is also negotiated secretly. There will be the same procedures. What's going on now: At least as interesting as investment protection, which everyone is now talking about, are the changes to workers' rights. The binding agreement would be important at least the well-known core labour standards of the ILO, i.e. the International Labour Organisation. CETA does not provide for this guarantee, but it is apparently accepted here that Canada has not ratified all core labour standards and therefore has other standards. This applies in particular to part-time arrangements, minimum age, maternity protection and co-determination by collective agreements. However, I understand this in Canada, because Canada has to compete with the USA and with Mexico, otherwise the entire industrial jobs, which are mainly in Ontario, for example, through the car industry, migrate to the south. But this is also relevant to us, because we have to be able to compete with Canada again, so we demand the following in order to be able to negotiate at all here: Of course, we need to be informed. We need to develop clear negotiating positions that are good for our entrepreneurs, good for our employees, good for our farmers and good for all of us as consumers. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The Stronach team is an economic liberal and a social party. We know that the conditions in the state must be such that there are as many private employers as possible and therefore private workers. Only in this way can we create and secure good jobs, and jobs are the most important in a society so that social peace exists. In this respect, we are of course for international economic relations, Austria is finally an export country. We are in favour of free trade in fair competition – and that is already the key word: We are in favour of fair competition, because only in this way can the economy work well and only in this way can one create prosperity. We must not let ourselves be given any advantage here! We do not want to undermine our work or our food or environmental standards. That means we say: Free trade is good, but on fair terms. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] TTIP consists of three areas which I would like to consider separately, and perhaps one should negotiate and adopt this separately. One is the topic of customs duties: The tariffs for industrial goods are 3 to 4 percent between the EU and the USA. The rates for imports of agricultural goods into the EU are 14 percent, in the USA at 5 percent, and the US tax textiles from Europe by 42 percent. Classic free trade policy was said to eliminate all these customs duties, but I suggest that as a step one there should be an official opinion in Austria: Do we want this for all areas? Do we want to remove the agricultural sector because of our high food standards and to protect our farmers? – In any case, it is important that there is equal opportunities, so we also need to keep in mind the subsidies in the respective countries. Of course, it is difficult to compete with a totally subsidized industry. The second is the issue of standards. TTIP is not only a customs agreement, but also has the goal of harmonising product standards and standardizing authorisation procedures. There is the question of which consumer standards should apply. Do we want chlorinated chickens? – By the way, we have chlorinated salad in the EU; I do not know if it is known to people. No one's been excited about that yet. I would also like to say that in the end it should be left to the consumer what he consumes. TTIP does not impose an obligation to buy, but the environment is a good label, so that it is clear to the consumer. My colleague Leo Steinbichler will give a detailed opinion on this. However, the most complicated part of the agreement, which includes investment protection, is certainly the most complicated. Austria is a country with a good legal system, so here I need no investor to fear it will be expropriated – at least not suddenly. If the SPÖ prevails, then perhaps slowly through asset taxes, but at least not within the framework of an investment in Austria. On the other hand, Canada was certainly not surprised when a US oil and gas company initiated a arbitration proceedings under NAFTA because Quebec had banned fracking. Actually, this was meant for Mexico, which does not have as stable a legal system as the US and Canada, but in this case Canada also came in. As a lawyer, I can tell you that a trial before a arbitration court has relatively little to do with the usual rule of law. This is an ad hocly-occupied body, which meets with public exclusion, does not allow vocation and can decide on more than billions, which the taxpayers will then have to cover. I see in this instrument a clear defiance of our sovereignty and the rule of law and therefore say No to the Investment Protection Agreement for Austria. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] It would be nice if the Austrian government were to give a position on this, because it seems that one of you says yes and the other is no. But that's all the same. Smell in Austria and turn it off in Brussels. But this is not correct for citizens. We clearly say that there are many open questions here, and we demand transparency. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] - I'll be right there. In fact, the governments are informing the corporations, which ultimately are also negotiating, but leave the parliaments outside. This is a complete reversal of the principle of accountability to the taxpayer. CETA and TTIP are great steps towards a lobbyist society, in which we are politicians and all the agreements we decide, but actually exclusively for the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e15305	Next, Mr. Klubobmann met Dr. Strolz to speak. I will set you five minutes of voluntary speaking time limit and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e15327	Madam President. Estimated government members! Ladies and gentlemen! Worth population in the galleries and in front of the screens! It is, of course, difficult to negotiate a subject of which we have no clear information at the table. I can get a little bit of speech from all parties. I see that on the one hand the government here in Parliament speaks with a different tongue than in the media – I wish the government a clearer attitude of course. That is a question of the upright gang also towards Boulevard media. This is not easy, it is clear to me, but it is a matter of political opinion. On the other hand, in the Greens, I have already felt that it is now and then – and ever more often – tempted to fall into some kind of political cocooning, and these issues, with which one can certainly win elections, if one prepares them very populistly, are also politically misused. I would like to see more differentiation from the Greens on these issues. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwentner.]] – Well, for example, the chlorchin was a nice example. If you deal with the chlorchin differently, you know it's a populist media beater, but you don't have much to do with the debate on the matter. [[Abg. Kogler: I didn't talk about that at all!]] But you haven't been interested in this, because you've switched to a mainstream election in the last two or three years, and you know what's going on with people. But I don't think that's fair policy. [[Abg. Kogler: I didn't say anything about the chlorhun in 20 minutes!]] – I do not think this is fair policy. I come to this later when I explain where I see that the Greens have a point that I would like to support. I start with the topic of transparency, which was mentioned by many: the Stronach Team, the Greens. – I fully share the point. We have this TTIP here at the table, and this is, of course, a model example of transparency. That's not how it's going! Then I expect the Federal Government, the Deputy Chancellor, from the chancellor, to cut them on the table and say: That's not how it is! We do not accept this form of negotiation. It is also very realistic to say that this will not lead to acceptance in the population. Such a paper will not be worth the paper on which it is printed, because if it is put into a corner in this form in a broad campaigning as at present, it will not be implemented. What I'd like is the following. I jump a little bit back and forth, so it's demanding to follow him. [[Call:It's going to be]] – I believe that you are, but there are others, they are just peripherals. For example, I would like from the Greens that there is also a confession in this House – and I believe all six parties should do so – that we owe our prosperity to a fair free trade and international economic cooperation in principle. [[Abg. Kogler: Where is it?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brunner.]] This confession does not exist because always subtly swings along, the market is evil. [[Abg. Lightenecker: That's not true at all!]] – This swings with the greens with: The market is evil, and occasionally the entrepreneur is also evil. – In this respect, I would like to make a confession! If you'd presend that, then it worked. Of course, your populism cults are not so good anymore, and that's why you don't forward them – and not even after them. That's why you missed it. You also work here with a resentment. I don't think that's okay. [[I would like to congratulate the NEOS and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Now comes again a sequence for the Greens to clap – please watch out! Werner, watch out, a sequence for the greens to clap. As NEOS, we demand: Reset TTIP! – We have to press the reset button here for good reasons. As NEOS, we have come to this House as a citizens' movement, based on the principle of transparency and participation, and we want to keep that up, also on this issue. I hope that the new Commissioner, the Liberal Swedish Cecilia Malmström, will be able to re-start it. The Scandinavians have a completely different relationship to transparency, which is a chance. [[Abg. Kogler: This is true!]] What we are calling for here is a modern negotiation procedure: First, the negotiating mandate must be made public, second, consultation processes for all chapters of the potential agreement must be held publicly. In the sense of a legal footprint, lobbyists should be publicly accredited; the outcome of the negotiations should be evaluated by Unis, Thinktanks, NGOs. A review phase of at least six months must be observed between the conclusion of the negotiations and the vote in the European Parliament in order to allow a serious public discourse. Finally, we call for cultural promotion, copyright and data protection, as well as agriculture and food production to be excluded from the negotiating mandate, for these are areas where the views and standards are so diametrically opposed that we believe that we should, also in the sense of pragmatic access, exclude these chapters including agriculture. We have excluded the area of the audio visual, then we can also take out other areas. And let us see that we are progressing well in the other areas! So, and now the greens are back to claping. - I'll wait.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e15445	Next, Mrs Mag. Mag. Brunner to speak. You have a voluntary time limit of 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e15466	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Seers! Mr Klubobmann Strolz, I do not agree that we owe our prosperity to trade. We have a great wealth in Austria, we are one of the richest countries at all, but I think we owe it to very, very many companies in Austria, many who are involved have the ideas that involve themselves, but not necessarily to trade alone. [[Abg. Stroll: And the wealth comes from the banknote, isn't it?]] And it must also be recognized that in Austria, especially with regard to resources and the consumption of resources, we live over our conditions and therefore have our prosperity at the expense of many other countries on this earth. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Stroll: But a commitment to the eco-social market economy!]] – That's why we are facing big... – Do you listen to me? [[Abg. Stroll: Once a confession!]] [[Abg. Stroll: Market is evil!]] That is why we face major challenges in this century for which we are responsible. We are facing a change in society and, in this context, a wide range of negotiations are now under way. For example, climate negotiations are taking place, where I have not noticed that many members of the Federal Government are particularly involved, and which are also very slow. But this is our most important basis of life! Negotiations on various trade agreements are under way, with a view to giving trade more "freer" opportunities – under quotations. It's about recognizing standards for each other: If a product is authorised in one country, it should also be placed on the market in others. This is a problem because, for example, in the EU the precautionary principle applies in many areas, so it is necessary to consider whether certain products have dangerous effects or not, but this is not the case in the US, for example. There must be evidence that there are harmful effects. If the Minister says that Austrian companies or Austria have always benefited from trade agreements, I say: Certainly, someone will have benefited, but there are certainly areas that do not benefit: those areas that are under-represented and not equally represented on the market. That's the climate, that's the environment, that's agriculture, these are workers who can also expect some protection from us. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] For me, the question here is: Who makes the rules? Who will make the rules for our systems in the future? Are these the corporations, or are they politics, governments and Parliament? – I am convinced that we elected representatives of the people are the only ones who have a claim to make these rules. We have not only one claim, but also a responsibility. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Nice.]] We are already experiencing it in the context of climate and environmental policy, how highly regulated by industrial representatives or economic lobbys are constantly being regulated, lobbyed and how difficult it is to maintain climate protection standards, environmental standards, let alone increase to the necessary degree. In Austria, for example, we have a climate protection law, which has been written by the Industrial Association and looks forward accordingly: Austria is the European Union's climate protection closing light. These trade agreements will not only facilitate this, but they will create a right for companies to intervene here: Court of Justice of the European Communities, Court of Justice, Court of Justice of the European Communities, Court of Justice The examples of the nuclear exodus in Germany or the shale gas promotion in Canada have already been mentioned by previous speakers. I find this problematic because we are giving up responsibility because we let ourselves be blackmailed if we let it go through, and I find it difficult because citizens do not have these opportunities. At present, there are international decisions that citizens must also have the right to have complaints to enforce environmental law, but Austria has not yet implemented it. If these trade agreements are going through, this is a double injustice, because companies can press environmental standards, but in return, citizens would not have the opportunity to sue the existing environmental standards – what we have already decided here. The next question I have to ask is: Who will be involved in this whole process? That's what we asked in our inquiry. – The Minister answered the question of 11, which social partners were involved: the IV – my knowledge is not a social partners – and the 13 which non-governmental organisations were involved: none. So in the climate negotiations, I remember that the non-governmental organizations involved are always the IVs involved. Mr Secretary of State, perhaps You'll find out: Who or what is the IV? Can we agree that the IV is also a non-governmental organization? [[Abg. Kogler: Who are they anyway?]] So the correct answer would have to be: A non-governmental organisation was involved. And on the question: Which?, it should be called: the IV. In fact, it is clear that industrial associations are once again involved, while environmental protection organisations are outside. [[Abg. Kogler: Where is the legal basis?]] Mr Cap has called for a national shoulder closure. I give you all the opportunity to support an initiative from Lower Austria, there are also representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ, so I think we can also achieve this national shoulder closure. I am therefore submitting the proposal, which covers all the essential sensitive points of these free trade agreements: [[Quoted print version removed]] I expect the Austrian Federal Government to inform the public in full that a clear position will also be taken here, which will then be honestly informed. However, I also expect the Austrian Federal Government to work and engage in the next few weeks and months in particular to make an active and ambitious climate protection policy and primarily to advance climate negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e15635	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by the honourable Members. Werner Kogler, colleagues and colleagues are sufficiently supported and are therefore involved in the negotiations. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e15727	Next speaker: Mrs Ecker. I set five minutes of voluntary speaking time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e15749	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! As an economic spokesperson for one-person companies and small and medium-sized enterprises, I consider the TTIP agreement from the entrepreneurial perspective. In small and medium-sized enterprises in Austria, we find 90 percent of the employees. This is where the Austrian economic engine works. Here comes the innovative force, which is Austria's competitive advantage number one. Useful here TTIP?, once fully grounded asked. Which What are the benefits of TTIP, and what do they look like? I am told that there are many different standards, certificates, import regulations. Of course, red tape reduction and simplification would also help a company, this will be confirmed by every entrepreneur here. Only: How many medium-sized enterprises, how many small businesses benefit from this market opening? What companies are working in other European countries today? Would TTIP really help the small business? I wonder if an agreement will not benefit from the large companies which can also be fully informed about such markets. From the car dealers around the corner, hardly anyone will benefit from the opportunities that slumber in Kansas, a business like BMW is easier to do. For us Social Democrats, human beings are always at the heart of us. We know how long it took to create social security in Austria. We know how long it has taken for us to establish a social network that covers people in emergency situations. We Social Democrats know how important it is that there is a health system in Austria that benefits everyone, whether rich or poor. This is called responsibility, and here there is justice; Responsibility which we also have towards our environment. The standards must be met in all these points. And here I would like to quote Werner Faymann, who clearly promised and clearly declared: We will clearly not agree to a free trade agreement that is pressing down Austrian standards! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kogler: Yes, we only have to tell the Minister of Economic Affairs and the Secretary of State!]] Let's draw the food here, for example. I am working in this area, and I am often told how important the high standards of our Austrian food are. [[Calls to the Greens.]] There are very, very many people who have been unsure in this area, and I, as a Social Democratic, am increasingly committed to ensuring that these standards are respected. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Right!]] It is very important to me that these achievements are not sacrificed either. [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and the representatives of FPÖ and Greens.]] The motto of the European Union is ‘individual’. There is nothing here from “Selling Our Variety. ” Let us therefore go to the bigger and speak of Europe, of a Europe that needs to recognize and play out its own strengths, because, ladies and gentlemen, Europe is the world's largest market! [[Abg. Kogler: Wau!]] And we should make the regulations and not vice versa. [[I should like to say a few words on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.]] [[Abg. Kogler: Yes!]] But Europe is only as strong as we all stand together. [[Abg. Kogler: Exactly! And that's why chancellors and vice chancellors, how do they do?]] Europe is still regarded by many as a hort of democracy, a place where there is much peace. My irrevocable position is that we must take care of these values and these foundations and that this foundation should not be rinsed. [[Abg. Höbart: It's been underwashed for a long time!]] Our standards must be respected, there is no negotiation on this! If these two major markets are to unite, the US and Europe, then we can also talk about the potential benefits. It could be set standards because this association would have enormous global effects. There are fundamental questions to be explained and also how we deal with our environment and the world in the next few years. We may now have one of the last exits to an ecological, sustainable economy. We have the opportunity to make the European Union more transparent. And if we are today talking about a democratic package for Austria, I would also like a democratic package for TTIP. Finally, and in this context a word to the opposition, first of all to Clubobfrau Glavischnig: Please stop worrying people here so much! [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: What?]] It would be more important to support the government so that Austrian interests are best represented. [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] [[Abg. Kogler: Yes, but that is absurd, the Austrian representatives are working against the Federal Chancellor!]] Only fears of incitement run out of populism and market-screaming. Thank you, Mr Kogler, I understood you. [[Abg. Kogler: Obviously not!]] So I would like to have a trade agreement here for Austrian politics, even here one could introduce standards, responsible action, for example. [[Abg. ==References== You can continue on December!]] I therefore support our Chancellor Werner Faymann, who ensures that Austria and the interests of the local population are not sold out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e15944	Mr Auer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'm setting 4 minutes of speaking time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e15975	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! I can do so in many areas of my previous speaker, and I can add something to one point: [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] It has stated that you are supporting the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, I support the entire government in this agreement. To make it clear. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Arbitrator.]] [[Abg. Kogler: But everyone is doing something else in the government! The Mitterlehner government or the Faymann government? What government?]] Ladies and gentlemen! After the question was also asked: What does such an agreement bring to the Austrian small and medium-sized enterprises?, the following: I have four such small farms in my community. These are companies with 40, 27, 32 and 21 employees. And I asked her how much they export from their production? – Between 75 and 94 percent of their products! [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Yes, but where, Jacob?]] [[Abg. Wöginger: Also to America! What do you think?]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is therefore also important for such businesses to be able to perceive the opportunities on the world market to have the opportunities in these international markets, whether you like it or not. [[Abg. Kogler: We already had them like that!]] I especially liked an execution of the clubwoman Dr. Nachbaur – she is always so charming, friendly smiling. Mrs Nachbaur rightly demanded that these negotiations should not be conducted in the silent chamber, not by corporations alone, but by all parties. Yes, I agree, but I also have to say: She would have a lot of work in her own group, because I can't remember Frank Stronach asking all the staff of his club, or that the Magna Group asked all the department heads of the company what they thought of different measures. And I remember that some of the mandates had some difficulties because they didn't do something that Frank Stronach wanted. In this respect, one might as well look in one's own stable and perhaps try to bring about improvements there as well. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Wenninger.]] Mr Pirklhuber has today said quite well in his speech, yes, that this petition committee is a very important agreement, namely this TTIP. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Yes!]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: TTIP!]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Citizens' Initiative!]] Yes, this trade agreement. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Over 20,000 signatures!]] And the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs would not have given an opinion on this, which is all the more so. I have now withdrawn the speech by Mr Pirklhuber, whom he gave this afternoon. In this he did not talk about when this committee was, but he wanted to give the impression that no opinion had yet been delivered. I have certainly noticed that he wanted to make a reply to Mrs Fekter's correction, but was retreaded by his own club colleagues because they had to draw his attention to the fact that this was not possible on Maria Fekter's contribution, since she had not mentioned it by name. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: That's right, yes!]] There you have to learn the Rules of Procedure, Mr Pirklhuber, but you still have time to do so. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I give right to all those who point out that trade is important. [[Abg. Kogler: This fits yesterday's herb- and meadow-driving!]] Fair trade is important! There is an old saying that is quite simple: A business is then a business if it's a business for everyone. And in order to make such a trade and such a business, there must be the same conditions. [[Abg. Kogler: Right! Please!]] It cannot be that I agree that one-sided conditions are dictated by corporations. Liberalism or free trade cannot be understood. Undisputed! Undisputed! [[Abg. Kogler: (Applause) Bravo! He understood!]] But I also held down – and it was clearly understood – that Mr. Vice-Chancellor carried out that between what the Federal Chancellor has said and his statements, there is no paper space, but that one is of one opinion. [[Abg. Kogler: Ah that!]] Ladies and gentlemen, that is why you should not keep something secret. It's exciting. If you are here in Parliament a little longer, you have experienced many urgent questions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] They were very often exciting, spicing, challenging – that was once, Mr Kogler – which today was, so to speak, like a shot-off flight that has crashed, there was nothing special about it. [[Abg. Wheeler: But never urgent!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler]] The fact is: Yes, we should not always let the Americans dictate everything, that is not a question at all, but the Austrian Parliament, the Austrian State and, above all, Europe have the right and the duty to act together so that these conditions are not determined unilaterally and at the expense of consumers, our companies and, above all, agriculture, because the fact is, fair trade is if there are equal conditions for all.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e16244	Mr Hübner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I set five minutes of voluntary speaking time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e16280	I can't thank you, Mr Auer. [[Abg. Auer: That would be too much!]] But just like a comment: I believe that Mr Cap has shown us today how to criticize a highly problematic agenda such as TTIP and CETA without compromising government solidarity. You could've done that, too. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] You can certainly keep the club discipline, maintain the club force and say it's all good and what we say is all stupid. [[Abg. Auer: Try it once!]] But you don't have to say in the matter, it's all great, the world trade is great, everything is fine, and the corporations have to be prevented – and that doesn't happen anyway. [[Call the ÖVP: He didn't say!]] [[Abg. Auer: No one said!]] Plus/minus he said that. What surprises me is: In the meantime, all the political groups have been illuminating except for your critical points. [[Abg. Auer: obviously need a hearing aid!]] Even the clubman of the World Citizens' Party NEOS, Mr Strolz, meant that the agricultural chapter was at least excluded from the TTIP. I'm surprised. I haven't heard from any farmer, except a few of the farmers from the Bauerbund, that they find it a great idea to compete in an open market with American industrial agriculture. I've never heard of this – I haven't heard of you either, you don't trust me to say that. Maybe it says a few functionals, but otherwise everyone says: A whore! We know that the current price level for agriculture is fatal. The farmers could not exist – apart from a few specialists such as the wine growers – if not all subsidized, for the various reasons and associated with the various bureaucratic insanity forms that are used there. And now you want to open the market? At least I expected you to say: Yes, trade is good, but what makes agriculture competitive with agriculture in Wyoming or Kansas? Is it our goal to export the organic farmers from the Tullnerfeld or the Innviertel – no matter who you want to take there – to Wyoming, Kansas and California and we import agricultural goods from there? Is that really your goal? I can't imagine that, honestly. [[Abg. Auer: Do you know how much käs we export?]] - After how much? How much to America? - You'll tell me. [[Abg. Auer: What do you appreciate?]] [[Abg. Auer: From production!]] – How much will that be? [[Abg. Auer: 40 percent of production!]] Please, 40 percent of the production! What is needed if we are supposed to export 40 percent of production to America, what do you want to tear down all the barriers and make an agreement that opens our market completely? - You, because the TTIP provides that! [[Abg. No one wants that! No one wants that!]] [[Abg. Auer: Who wants that?]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Auer: Fair trade!]] Fair trade – what is fair trade when Austrian agriculture is brought into an open competitive relationship with the US? That's not fair trade! This is what the English economy did in the 19th century. That's true. England has opened the agricultural market to the colonies, which has led to the almost out of existence of English agriculture around 1900. England has only reactivated its agriculture in 1940/41 under the problems of war. This was gone through open trade, of course, because English agriculture could not compete with Australian, Canadian, partly Indian and East African. If that's what we want, yeah. But let us come to another chapter, and I also have to talk to the SPÖ, because it always means that this is not a reason for alarm, that this is only panic and screaming, because our government will prevent all of this and Austria will not subdue it at the time. Excuse me, Mr Cap, but not only do I believe this, I do not really believe it, even you, namely that if the Austrian Government is negotiating TTIP or CETA, then if the Commission has said that we are doing so, and perhaps a majority of the European countries say that we are, standing up and saying, we are not signing it, we are bringing it to the fore. [[Abg. Kogler: We are surrounded by brave people!]] No one believes that! I, for example, because you always quote the Chancellor, looked at his attitude to the last round of sanctions on Russia a little – media coverage, interviews. 30. August: Faymann in the ‘Kurier’: I am a sharp opponent of senseless sabering and other sanctions that harm us and make everything worse. - A good statement. That's what I thought: He's got courage! 31. August: That's what it says: I'm not excited about the sanctions, what should be tightened up? We must examine how this affects Austria. I can't promise an agreement yet. 2. ==References== September was the Council conference – Faymann in the media: It is right to intensify sanctions against Russia. [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] What Expects If everything goes wrong, do you stand for a resistance from Austria alone? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's why we're asking: Now Austria has to say, now Parliament has to say: No, if you're negotiating points 1, 2, 3, 4, we're not going to do that! We believe that it now belongs to the national parliaments, and in the national parliaments, I can assure you that it will fail if it is inside. The Germans do it in part, but where do we do it? [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] We say the Faymann will do that, we believe the Federal Chancellor. – Comment superfluous.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e16507	Mr Ertlschweiger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. I'll give it to him and set the clock to 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e16528	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. State Secretary! Dear spectators at home in front of the televisions! Ladies and gentlemen! For weeks now the free trade agreement between the European Union and the USA and Canada has been discussed. But no one knows the specific content of TTIP and CETA, we have heard that today. This is precisely the point – I believe that the EU and its national states must, in the sense of future agreements, be interested in increasing transparency and providing better information to people. It must be automatic that, after the experts have clearly put all the benefits and risks of such an agreement on the table, the population will also be involved and informed accordingly. It is only then, ladies and gentlemen, that a meaningful and differentiated discussion is possible. Before that, it's not because you don't know what you're talking about. At an export rate of 60 percent, Austria cannot afford to a priori to abandon free trade agreements, which is a fact. This has not been done in the past, it will not be done in the future, and any other strategy you have to explain to the 47 000 entrepreneurs who rely on the export. That's it. If TTIP and CETA are made such a secret, then politics must not be surprised either that many people, and above all many powerful citizens, rise to the barricades and say: Hoppla, if not! What about transparency? What exactly is being negotiated? What's this about? Many people in Europe are rightly afraid of their high standards in the food sector, in consumer protection and in nature conservation, as well as in the protection of the environment and workers. What matters to us is that Mr Steinbichler will explain even more closely today. Why has it ever come so far that newspapers like the “Kronen Zeitung” are campaigning for a variety of citizens’ initiatives across Europe that there are over-participal resolutions? – Just because the citizens don’t feel informed, quite simply! Because the negotiations are secret and take place behind closed doors because not even the national parliaments are involved because democracy is undermined and the people's representatives are de facto demise. And that's the problem. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] At the moment, we know only gay and little binding arguments, word “special case rights”, and that’s too little. What exactly does this look like with the planned investment protection? – Mr Nachbaur has already said it today. – What does that look like? Who benefits from this investment protection by having the ‘right to regulation’ in these agreements anyway, where it is intended to ensure that a country cannot be sued if it changes laws afterwards? What do you mean by a fair and fair treatment of investors, what does that mean? – These are all questions, ladies and gentlemen, that people in Austria and all over Europe are asking themselves. What we need in terms of TTIP and CETA is simply one thing: Transparency. The policy of secrecy rightly makes people stupid and rightly incite distrust. Parliaments as well as the people must be informed, that is the command of the hour. As you all know, I'm from Burgenland and I'm Burgenland's Member of Parliament. For this reason, I have also invited all mayors in Burgenland to support an extra-party resolution aimed precisely at promoting the disclosure of TTIP and CETA's negotiating documents, thus increasing the pressure for greater transparency. In the very objective discussion in the EU Subcommittee, I had the impression that the SPÖ Members in particular see these agreements, especially CETA, as ambivalent. I have at least felt this part of the speeches when I recall the statements made by Mrs Muttonen or by Mr Weninger. This is also true of me in a positive and confident way, ladies and gentlemen, and it is also relative to the mail I received in response to my over-party resolution from a Turkish SPÖ mayor of the municipality of Inzenhof. He wrote me the following: Good day! It is asked not to provide us with information and other information by e-mail in the future. There is neither need nor need. Friendly greetings. - Quote. I think, ladies and gentlemen, the mayor is wrong! I think there is a need for information. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] I believe that people are very much in need of being informed, in Inzenhof and in Parliament. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e16605	Mr Hable has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e16626	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Estimated citizens! A comment, Mr Hübner: “World citizen” we understand as a compliment! I don't know if it was supposed to be in this direction, otherwise you'd have to think about something else. We are quite positive about this. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] What we NEOS want on the subject of TTIP and CETA, on these international trade agreements, is transparency, because transparency is a pillar of democracy, a pillar of a functioning democracy. Therefore, for example, I do not understand – I wanted to ask this question to the Chancellor yesterday, since he was already gone again, I wanted to put it to the vice chancellor, now he is gone again, so, Mr State Secretary, now you have to listen to it, and I hope that you will also pass it on – why the negotiating mandate on TTIP is secret. The European Commission will always look at the European Commission as if the European Commission had given itself the negotiating mandate. This is a mistake. The negotiating mandate has been given to the European Commission by the Council, and in the Council are all EU countries, all governments, including the Austrian Federal Government. That is why I wonder, or do we ask you, the Federal Government, Chancellor Faymann, Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner: Why is that so? Why, then, did the negotiating mandate have to be secret to the TTIP negotiations? It's already leaked, and I don't think there's such dramatic stuff in there that it's necessary. But it is, of course, unreasonable to be responsible for referring to others. That is why, Mr Cap, you referred to, among other things, the EU level, and this is not quite correct and not quite fair, if, in fact, the Federal Government is also responsible as those who have commissioned the secret negotiating mandate. Last week we heard from Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner in the Committee that the Federal Government and the social partners had been involved all the time in the negotiations on CETA. It is, of course, too little that the competent ministries and the social partners are on board, but above all we must bring the citizens on board, and that has been missed. Here you, Mr State Secretary, on behalf of the Federal Government, as well as the social partners, the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Labour, who were apparently on board here, are responsible for informing and bringing the citizens on board. Switzerland once again shows that it can go differently. In fact, I would be pleased if Switzerland would once point to us, to Austria, as an example in political matters. Unfortunately, this happens only when skiing, unfortunately in politics far too rarely. How does Switzerland do it? – This can be read on the website of the State Secretariat for Economic Affairs, where Switzerland informs about the negotiations in the area of TiSA, about this other international trade agreement on services. [[The speaker holds up papers]] There you can read and understand the initial offers of Switzerland and all the written entries of Switzerland, including the entries of Switzerland to different rules, negotiating positions and export subsidies. [[The speaker holds up papers again.]] So this would be the case, and I believe that we all would like to see the citizens in this country too, because if this necessary transparency does not take place, the consequence is clear. – We open, or you, the Federal Government, open the door to fear and panic. And what's part of this fear, that panic? – For example, we have already heard of the chlorhuhn. Of course, these discussions are about reducing standards, and most discussions are not about reducing standards at all, but are about the diversity of standards. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Ha! That's a joke!]] They focus on different authorisation procedures, they spin around different product standards, they spin around different technical regulations. Let me give an example: In the U.S., it seems that the signals have to flash red in cars, which is, as it were, for the Americans of the security standard, in Europe the hands have to blink orange, which is the safety standard for us. No one can reasonably explain that one is better than the other, that one is safer than the other. That is to say, in reality, we are dealing with the product standards, which are rationally aligned with the authorisation procedures. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: This problem will be solved without a trade agreement!]] Of course, this is always a question of perspective. In banking regulation, for example, both sides, i.e. Americans and Europeans, claim they have better regulation and higher standards. With agriculture – our Matthias Strolz has already said it – we are of course very far apart. That is why we also say that we should take this out, the approach is too different, since we are probably not going to continue. A point on investor protection, also part of the fright and panic. Of course, what is forgotten is that if one says that the national legal systems would be sufficient, then Austrian companies are supposed to move in the case of American courts – in the case of the US courts, which, by the way, also have the task of taking national interests into account. Well, then I wish you a lot of fun! But on the other hand: The arbitration courts are also not the yellow of the egg. That's right. There's a lot of transparency, there's no appeals. We therefore propose that NEOS continue to develop on this issue, not only to see black and white, but to develop into a permanent international court in international arbitration matters, which takes care of these matters to raise quality in order to raise transparency with independent judges and appeals. This brings me to the next point, namely not only to see everything black and white, not only to put the fear-making and panic-making in the foreground, but also to see the positive, to see the positive in the trade, because trade is actually peace-making. I have already heard for the second time from the Greens – and I note with regret – that they do not consider trade to be peaceable. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: We never said that!]] I heard this from your colleague Lunacek in the European Parliament during a panel discussion. Mrs Brunner has now repeated it here. And I feel that we feel an increasingly negative attitude towards the economy and jobs. This is wrong, because not only do you not understand the functioning of the economy if you follow this view, but you also do not understand Europe's idea of unification. Europe is built on this idea that trade is peace-making. This is a central pillar of European integration. Countries that trade with each other, countries whose economies are restricted, are not collapsing. Unfortunately, we experience this much too often today. There is peace in Europe and there is a burning around it and smoking columns are rising. [[Abg. Pilz: Do you know who Ukraine's main trading partner is? Ukraine's main trading partner is Russia! Learn Geography!]] Now follow the last point. Trade is particularly beneficial for jobs. It's not about corporations. This is about the small and medium-sized enterprises in Austria, the SMEs that, of course, if we had a trade agreement, could benefit significantly. These different authorisation procedures, these different product standards, no, which do not hinder the corporations – they can afford to do so – which hinder small and medium-sized enterprises in their economic activities and prevent them from exporting. And that costs us jobs. Let's take this opportunity! There are, of course, always risks, but this – this is the task of politics – must be minimized, can be managed. If we take advantage of the opportunity of this international trade agreement, we will create the conditions for more jobs and create common high global standards on social and environmental issues! If it does not create Europe and America, then the global trade standards of China and Russia are dominated. We won't want to. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e16726	Mr Pirklhuber spoke next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e16747	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, the title of today's urgents is precisely in the right place. ‘Fair trade instead of corporate justice’. - Yes, that's the subject. This is not an issue that is happening somewhere, but it is the burning issue of European economic policy and future strategies. There's no way the ghosts do. We have now seen this with Mr Hable. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Auer is not here now, he was the only one who took the concept of fair trade into his mouth once again. But that's exactly what you need to look at. I quote here Joseph Stiglitz, who made very clear statements on this issue, namely: Free trade alone is not a prerequisite for prosperity. It also needs framework conditions. This is said by a US economist who has been with the World Bank for a long time, who has seen what is happening with a “over-the-counter” corporate policy, where developing countries have been forced into the knees under the dictatorship of so-called free trade, to accept conditions that have then caused the whole sectors to be hollowed out, privatized and destroyed. That's reality. Not only the rainforest, but also the people pay for it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Kogler: Right! Yes! Exploitation!]] And that's why we're dealing with this urgently. That's just the challenge and the question. CETA, when enforced, is the Trojan horse with which the US groups will undermine the European standards. [[Demonstrative applause by Mrs Riemer and Mrs Hübner.]] We will address this together with the European civilian population, including the workers' representatives. I very much hope that the trade unions, together with the Greens, will march against a policy that goes beyond the citizens. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: Reverse!]] [[Abg. Wheeler: You can do that well!]] And we are likely to have to march because the EU Commission has not yet been prepared to take citizens seriously. If a European Citizens' Initiative on TTIP is not allowed with the argument that this is not a European legislation, then I say that is cynical. This is simply cynical because these negotiations – and all experts know this – will have an impact on European laws and standards. That's one of the points you have to make quite clear. This requires a strong federal government, and above all a strong parliament, which says with a clear voice: That is not how it can be done, Commissioner. This is also true of the new Commissioners. This is the message we need to send from Parliament together. Now some facts, because it has always been said, Mr Strolz, we do not know what it is. Look at this! What is it like in the foreign trade? The share of EU-27 external trade with the USA has developed since 1999 as follows: Imports were 22.3% in 1999. The total imports have been halved to 11.5 percent by 2012. Total exports fell from 27.4 percent to 17.3 percent in this period. Why did this happen? – Very simple explanation: This is the South-East Asian region, including the integration of Russia into world trade. The European Union has a very massive exchange with these regions. Trade, international trade, has widened. [[Abg. Stroll: What is the Conlusio?]] So, that's the fact, colleague Strolz. And the second situation is at least so important. The actual foreign trade – and that was what I had written to my colleague Auer in the main book when he said that his small companies export to 75 percent. - Yes, but where, please? This is intra-European trade. Internal European foreign trade is ten times as big – ten times as big! - like trade with the USA. [[Abg. Stroll: That's all clear! The conlusio is missing!]] These are facts, and you should see them. That is why the question that I am asking myself is as follows: What about employment effects? What does it look like? German Institutes, the Institute for Market Research – what do they say? TTIP growth effects per year between 0.03 and 0.04 percent in the forecast, and it is likely that the effects will not be determined until 10 to 20 years. [[Abg. Stroll: Do you know how many tens of thousands of young people do not get a job in Europe?]] – You know, Mr Strolz, it's just like this: If I am – certainly we need a concept against youth unemployment, Mr Strolz. [[Abg. Stroll: What do we do against youth unemployment?]] [[Abg. Stroll: New Biedermeier?- Oh, my God!]] But this requires a European economic policy that strengthens the regional economy which strengthens the cooperation of the Member States. And this is another concept: fair trade, which also takes into account social standards, which also develops environmental standards that further develop a sustainable, resource-efficient economy in Europe. That's a green concept. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Stroll.]] This is Green Economy, colleague Strolz. Green Economy! And we'll implement them, so you can be sure. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One to the Vice-Chancellor, to the Minister for Economic Affairs, because he said he had the same opinion that there would be no hand between him and the Federal Chancellor. I quote from a reply from June 2014: ‘Investment protection and investor-state dispute settlements () make sense also in agreements with countries with a developed legal system.’ [[Abg. Kogler: Exactly! The opposite of the chancellor! I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Tell me something, Mr. State Secretary.]] That's what he says, Minister of Economic Affairs. That's what he says in an answer to a question. And this is diametrically opposed to what the chancellor says. [[Abg. Kogler: This is a barrage from the government bank!]] I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] That's an hour's commandment, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e16973	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Pirklhuber is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e17046	Next speaker: Mr Wenninger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e17068	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! I think the sensuality of today's urgency is given. Based on the statements made yesterday by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, we now have the opportunity to deepen the questions in terms of content. The approaches of colleagues Jakob Auer and colleagues Kogler are not so far apart. In opposition to or concern about these free trade agreements, it is essentially about the fact that European civil society, workers' representatives, environmental organisations, consumer representatives – are concerned that something is necessarily brought together, which does not really fit together. Because NEOS addressed European integration: Yes, it is true that just the common economy is the basic concept of European integration. This is based on the fact that there are no more acts of war within the European Union – a concept from the 1950s that comes ideologically from the turn of the century. But I did not know that we – Europe, the EU – and the Americans were somehow in a state of war! This therefore does not serve as an argument at a time when trade in goods is not conducted fairly. We must move towards a fair course of action, not only towards the North American continent, but also within the European Union and towards the emerging countries, the developing countries. We are living in a time of scarcer resources, and we are now currently having the climate summit of the UN in New York, and sometimes it happens to me that there are prophets of neoliberalism who say that the more it is being done, the more it is sold, the better the life situation of the people. It's not like that! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Matznetter.]] That is why European workers' representatives, social democracy, are very skeptical, not only in terms of transparency, but also in terms of the different ways of life and political cultures in our systems. The American system, which I appreciate as such, is simply contrary to European cultural identity. We Europeans are accustomed to solidarity-grouping regulations, to a high degree. The Austrians can rely on this solidarity and collective attitude. This is an essential part of our quality of life and our social security. Again, back to the problem of fair trade. Why many – especially within social democracy and in the trade union movement – are very concerned in Europe, the very concrete experience of European policy among political majority of neoliberalism over the last decades, when there was not only a phase in Austria where everything was sold, spoiled, privatized and deregulated, under the pretext, then people were better – the results are known to us all – but also at European level, where this approach has not led to a significant improvement in the living situation of workers on this continent. The result is a certain basic scepticism, which is no contradiction to the fact that, of course, social democracy is for sustainable positive economic development and for job creation. Because in recent times it has been argued that there was a contradiction between the opinion of the Federal Chancellor and the opinion of the Deputy Chancellor: More agreement than the Vice-Chancellor says that he is the Federal Chancellor's opinion, can't exist at all. We have heard this very clearly today and yesterday. In this context, I also refer to the Stoneographic Protocol of yesterday's session, according to which German Chancellor Werner Faymann clearly opposed the conciliation procedure, and also to the ORF Summer Conference on Monday, where Chancellor Werner Faymann said we want to hinder all those who believe that they have to build nuclear power plants everywhere, and we want to hinder those who believe that they can do business with cheap wages and bad working conditions, and we want to promote all those who are willing to maintain the high standards. I think it is impossible to bring more than this clear statement and the confession of the vice chancellor, which can be seen in the same way.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e17126	The next item is the speech by Mr Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e17148	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Estimated citizens! Of course, we must take the debate on the free trade agreements with Canada and the USA seriously, also here in Parliament, but I am opposed if there are some contributions to the debate on the uncertainty of the population and if the child is also thrown out with the bath, Mr Kogler. [[Abg. Kogler: You refuse the information!]] This is not necessary in this discussion. [[Abg. Kogler: What is it at all?]] Let's get some facts and data and put them on the table! [[Abg. Kogler: Yes!]] Tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, nothing will be signed at the EU-Canada Summit. [[Abg. Kogler: That's what we know.]] But this claim has been put into space here, Mr Kogler, and that is an uncertainty of the population. [[Abg. Kogler: No! You can't even listen!]] We do not need that on this issue. Implementation in this area will take at least one year. Second point: The Free Trade Agreements should in principle be assessed positively from the Austrian point of view. We're an export country! We generate 60 percent of GDP through export, six out of ten euros we earn in export, and every second job is export-dependent. [[Abg. Kogler: Through intra-European export – without these agreements obviously!]] [[Abg. Kogler: But without North American arrivals obviously!]] In this context, I would like to mention that we still have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe, within the EU-28, under difficult conditions, under difficult conditions. We currently have 62 bilateral free trade agreements, and we have said 'billateral', Mr Kogler. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Kogler!]] Can you listen? It would serve parliamentaryism if you heard other opinions. This would be good for you as a long-standing parliamentarian. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have never been sued or even condemned for any of these agreements. Third point: Investment protection. – Of course, it is necessary to continue negotiations, even in accordance with the principle of what is necessary for the States and what the States need, the investors and the host states. [[Abg. Kogler: You are unsuspecting! They'll close tomorrow!]] It is also necessary to reflect on the inclusion of appropriate provisions in TTIP and CETA. The 150 000 opinions in the course of the online consultation provide a good basis. They haven't been mentioned at all today. There were also 35 000 from Austria. The EU Commission intends to publish a detailed analysis by November 2014 after careful examination. Then there is a discussion with the members of the Federal Governments, the social partners, the experts and representatives of civil society, and then there will be on 21 December. The Council of Trade Ministers took place in Brussels on 1 November. Austria, ladies and gentlemen, is based on maximum transparency. I would like to stress this particularly here. The Vice-chanc Mitterlehner has also made it quite clear to the public. Any further potential for improvement in this area is strongly supported by the Vice-President. Fourth point: Standards. . A motion for a resolution will be tabled by the government groups in this regard in the course of this debate. Of course, the European and, above all, Austrian standards must be secured. It is precisely the anchoring of the “right to regulation” that enables any contractual partner to ensure the level of protection: our high standards in the social and health sectors, as well as in the environment, consumer protection and food. Our members of the government will pay particular attention to this. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear: If these contracts are not good for us, they will not be signed by us either. Fifth point: Ratification. – TTIP and CETA are clearly mixed agreements. This has also been clarified today. This means that both the European Parliament and the national parliaments are obliged to vote. And that means that these agreements come to us here to the Parliament, to the House, here to the National Council, and then we decide whether to accept the outcome of the negotiations or not. Summary: Free trade agreements are important for the export country Austria. They secure and create jobs. The contracts will continue to be negotiated, this is a ongoing process. The Austrian standards must be complied with, otherwise there will be no agreement. And panic and populism are not in place here. Today, Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner has clearly explained his position in this area. He has my full support. He should have one of yours, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e17296	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Kassinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e17318	Mr President. High house! Before I come to TTIP and CETA, some basic findings from us liberals. We liberals are for a strong state. This state has to act in the interests of its population. It does not have to interfere regulatoryly in every detail of the daily life of its citizens, but it has to create the framework conditions that enable the successful development of its economy in the international environment, and it must have the competence to enforce compliance with these framework conditions and standards – based on the principle of the rule of law, “rule of law”! We liberals will fight to ensure that our state remains operational, that it preserves its competences where it is concerned with sovereign tasks for the purpose of the common good. We liberals fight for the final divorceer to be the national people – “demos”, the people – in all essential matters of living together. Democracy is the rule of the people, whether it be through indirect democracy over our Austrian Parliament and our Federal Government or through the path of direct democracy with referendums. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We Liberals are also fighting to ensure that the people as final divorceers in all matters to be decided are provided comprehensively, transparently, openly and honestly with all the necessary information that they need as a basis for their decision. We liberals are fighting to ensure that all decision-making processes relating to the common good are conducted with the highest possible degree of openness and transparency. These are our goals! – The representatives of our federal government obviously fight for completely different goals. What Brings Are you making responsible debts at the expense of our children in the result? – Depending on the benevolence of the financiers, they are now called the ECB, the World Bank, however. This results in huge interest payments and, in particular, in restrictions on the freedom of action and the possibility of action of the State. What results from the excessive surrender of state-of-the-art skills and design opportunities to supranational institutions, such as the EU? – dependence, restrictions on the freedom of action and the possibility of action of the State. You will now ask: What do these two areas have in common? – In both areas, members of the Federal Government speak beautifully about the world, that everything is not a problem, everything is fine, everything is transparent. Critical statements of the opposition – and we have been allowed to experience this live today – are being aborted as panic. We basically reject the debt over the economic cycle. The delivery of competences to supranational organisations must be done with a measure and objective and must be a priority for the interests of the Republic of Austria in the global environment. But what is happening here is the delivery of competences to private special courts. These are intended to negotiate disputes between investors and States with massive advances in investor protection. This is the issue of an area of central government competence, namely jurisdictional competence. Today, legal certainty has been stressed again and again. In contrast to so-called "banana republics", I quote only colleagues in Cap, we Austrians have a sophisticated state legal system capable of providing comprehensive protection to investors. By the way, the German Federal Government has commissioned an opinion which comes to the same conclusion for Germany. I can, here too, fully endorse the findings of the Greens in the introduction to their urgent request. I quote: "The sovereignty of states to take necessary regulatory measures in the interests of the common good and to ensure the security of their citizens is limited by the fact that international large corporations can hinder such laws by costly procedures or demand compensation in billions." So this is no more and no less than questions of the sovereignty of states, in our case the sovereignty of the Republic of Austria in essential matters. But what is happening at CETA and TTIP? What two points are particularly unacceptable for us to be liberals? On the one hand, this is the fact that the negotiations have been completely intruding and are taking place in some areas of the negotiations in Brussels virtually excluding the public. Selected parliamentarians are not even allowed to make notes or copies of the negotiating texts. That's a joke! Secondly, this is the fact that the special rights in the area for large corporations, which sue States to billions, are contrary to democratic and rule-of-law standards of independent legal systems. They will be a massive further weakening of the state. It seems to me that the real goal is the complete abolition of states. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: This is a weakening of the European Union!]] Three individuals sit in the arbitration offices, one is nominated by the parties, and one chairman – these are not judges at all, they are lawyers! They then have to assess whether a state that – I quote – “... Profit expectations of corporations have disappointed ” or, I quote, has passed “in manifest arbitrariness ” – quotations – laws that prevent the companies from making profits. As a lawyer, I can only say: It is only so filled with so-called undetermined concepts of law. There is open to these three lawyers of interpretation door and gate. An insanity, considering the consequences that can go to billions of heights! Is the decision to withdraw from nuclear power, as it has taken Germany, to subsume it? Does this disapprove of the expectations of energy companies? If the three lawyers did, that would cost the German taxpayer billions. The same would apply to state laws and standards, such as high environmental standards and environmental standards, high health standards, prohibitions or labelling requirements of genetically modified foods and high social and labour standards. The drafts are always about harmonisation. This harmonisation, of course, is based on the interests of the corporations and financial investors. That means that this can only result in medium-term harmonisation of the standards downwards. Now I have to keep myself a little shorter. All right, let's leave something away. [[Abg. Lightenecker: This is called flexibility!]] That's flexible. I'll get you together. Of course, we liberals do not reject free trade in a globalized world, that would be non-worldly. It has long been taking place, also very intensively between the United States of America and Europe. What we reject is the neoliberal development of this free trade, which manifests itself in a disarmament of states. What we reject is the total subordination of states among the interests of corporations and financial investors. What we reject in the specific case is the abolition of European standards and the abolition or elimination of European state legal culture by an American culture of the global privatisation of law with an associated and beneficial legal representation industry. I firmly believe that the majority of the Austrian population rejects this, and thus also the essential provisions of CETA and TTIP in the present form – at least what is publicly known. However, I am afraid that CETA – and with it TTIP is already firmly negotiated and decided by way of the removal of the seat from the USA to Canada – is de facto. The case is already bitten, and we didn't get any of it. And that's the real scandal!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e17384	The next item is the report by Mr Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e17406	Mr President. High house! Today, we have heard from the Vice-Chancellor that free trade is always a very positive thing, and that is true in many cases, but unfortunately not always. That is why I would like to take a closer look at the chicken that is constantly being tried. Let's see where this chicken comes from! There is a chicken factory in the United States where this chicken is produced. This chicken is slaughtered, cooled, loaded to a truck, brought to the nearest port, transported from there thousands of kilometers, then loaded back to a truck, and sometime this chicken arrives in the Austrian supermarkets and costs by 20 cents or 30 cents less than the chicken that has grown up around the corner at the farm. Now I wonder how it is. How can it be that this chicken, which has so far behind it, which consumes so much energy and, of course, has also caused costs, is cheaper than a chicken that is produced around the corner in Austria? – This is only possible if you do all the stupidities that are already very familiar with us. That is, inferior food, use of antibiotics, use of many, many other things we are trying to get away from in Austria. And then I wonder what the meaning of free trade is. What do we do with our Austrian chickens, if the American are much cheaper? It also raises the question of what will happen. Passing will be as follows: Our farmers, our chicken girls will simply die away, just as has happened in many other areas. And then, of course, the question arises again whether we want to do so. Do we really want to let our farmers die and import the inferior chickens and inferior foods from other countries? [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] This is already happening, but the question is whether we want to expand it, whether we want to do it even more excessively. – I say: No, no, no, And I'm saying no, because we have only 80 percent self-sufficiency right now – 80 percent – that is, we can't take care of ourselves. If we continue and introduce TTIP, it will get even less – and then the question is what happens in the crisis. Then the ships still come from the USA and elsewhere? Or should we rather see that we can take care of ourselves in the crisis? That is why we must show a certain degree of protectionism. I am, of course, in all areas of free trade. In the case of raw materials, it makes no sense at all to refuse because there are regions where cheaper production can be produced – no question! – but not in food. Food is about risking the health of our people and creating high costs. These costs are not to be borne by the American companies, the cheap food and so on. I am not a clairvoyant, but as soon as this agreement is in place, the farmers will die even faster than before, and if you try to do something about it by law, you will see exactly what has been negotiated here in the Treaty, namely the right of appeal, and this will be turned off. If you don't believe this, you just need to look into the US. A few years ago, there was the problem of giving mast animals, in particular cattle, cheap food to save costs. As a result, bacteria that have contaminated beef have formed, and twenty children in the USA have died. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber]] When this became big on the subject and the moderator dared to say that she had not eaten Hamburg for a long time, she was sued by the food companies in the USA – and they have also won! These companies have all sued, including a mother who complained that her child had died of these poisoned burgers, and have thus killed her mouth. And exactly the same thing you want here. Don't you see that? That is why they do not want to waive this right of appeal. They want to send us their cheap food to Europe, and if we don't swallow them, we'll be sued until they're all mouth-dead and finally the principle of putting profits over the interests of consumers is enforced. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler.]] That's exactly the point! These groups do not have to pay the follow-up costs. I am basically for profits – profits are something good, profits also generate economic performance and prosperity. But if the profits go at the expense of people and if then the generality has to rise for the follow-up costs, then it will be critical. And there we need a close corset, a corset made by the states and cannot be tied up by any self-appointed censure points. That's exactly what's being done, but apparently nobody wants to see it here. If Mr. Faymann says that this is only 2018 anyway, I already know what he thinks about it. He promises today: We will fight against it! and hope that it will be beating after the next election and only then will it become clear that it has spread sand into the eyes of the people. Finally, he has – and he can't do that deny – together with the President-in-Office, the mandate to negotiate this agreement. That is why he has a responsibility and cannot take responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e17496	Next speaker: Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e17517	Mr President. Estimated Secretary of State! I am now doing a little hard where I am supposed to start, but yes, Mr Kogler, I am giving you a right with regard to transparency – you are quite right – and false communication from the EU side – also completely right. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer]] However, if even your club woman speaks of the fact that one should argue in a sound manner, then I can speak directly to Mr Lugar's statements. Do you not know that we are already importing over 10,000 tonnes of beef from the USA? Don't you know that we import 37 000 tonnes of beef from South America alone? No, the problem, Mr Kogler, is something else. [[Abg. Kogler: This is the problem and not the solution!]] You should, I believe, put it differently and get away from your ban dogmatics, in which you require that we do not eat meat two days a week. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lugar.]] We can no longer produce what we take each day. That's the reality! [[Abg. Kogler: People in South America die for this!]] Mr. Lugar, we import chickens from Thailand and Brazil. – Is that something bad? Did we die of that? [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Deforestation of rain forest!]] Do you think it's getting worse now? That panic! Why can't you argue that? Why do you always spread panic? - No, I don't. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Agriculture not only in Brazil, but also with us!]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] That panic! We should put it on a different level. Look, we can also raise our standards in that we – yes, but we can also contribute to raising our standards. [[Call the Greens.]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Yes, how?]] What we see is that the population is very dependent on regionality, that the population needs regionality and that agriculture with agricultural products from regional production is becoming increasingly attractive. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Pirklhuber]] But what are we doing? - We don't strengthen our farmers. We should strengthen them more, and we should not only strengthen the final product, but, accordingly, also its origin. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] That's clear, we agree anyway. [[Abg. Brosz: But to and fro, you don't need to send the meat!]] - I'm not sending you back and forth. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: The flesh!]] You're sending people back and forth, 'cause that's panic, and I think that's pointless. [[Abg. Brosz: and the potatoes! - Oh, my God!]] What about mass production? What about the 780 000 tons of soya we bring to Austria? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] What do you want with that? Do you want to get rid of it? Shouldn't we feed any more? What do you want? [[Abg. Kogler: That's all a problem!]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] What we need – and that is our demand – is transparency. We must not only look skeptically at the American agricultural sector, but we must also do our own homework, for transparent, comprehensible criteria in agricultural production also with us. ==References== For example, the new Food Information Regulation will enter into force on December 2014, which will at least provide more information on the part of consumers. This is undoubtedly a step, but on the other hand: Where do I take the next step? And at this point I just have to say that this panic is unsustainable, and you can move through the plenary room at the median nose ring. [[Call the Greens: What kind of panic?]] [[Call the Greens: You too!]] - No, I don't! We don't need that. On the comments made by Mr Brunner, I only say one thing: If I'm a businessman, I'll produce something, then I'll have to deal with it. And if I don't handle anything, I fail to do something, then I'm a neglecter and not an entrepreneur. I believe that prosperity was very well built up by this entrepreneurship in Austria and that we are living on it.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e17738	Next item is the report by Mr Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e17788	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Frank Stronach is not always easy to understand; not only have we, but the whole population has had problems there. [[Abg. Rebaur: happy to translate!]] But if I read the tomorrow edition of the “Kronen Zeitung”, on page 2, I have to say: The man sometimes expresses himself, and we also understand him – and actually he is right. If he could, as he wanted, he would immediately send several of the delegates of his team Stronach to the desert. The man knows what he's talking about – when I've been listening to the Lugar. The man gave this interview before he talked here. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Rebaurer: First of all! Government except Mr Schelling!]] – I just want to say something positive about him, so to speak, is nothing bad. [[Abg. Who are the two?]] It is not true that I can always agree with the statements from the NEOS side, but now to the serious part: Yes, it is precisely this paper that is polemizing in a very strong populist approach against the Free Trade Agreement. [[The speaker keeps a newspaper up to date]] [[Inter-call at the Stronach team.]] With regard to the accusation made by my predecessor that there is a lot of panic going on here: I would at least think about this – this to the most intense exponents of the critics here. [[Abg. Brosz: This should be discussed with the Federal Chancellor!]] We have a free trade agreement before us – that is, in a few years before us – whose benefits are certain – and I think everyone will agree to it – for everyone, especially on the European side. [[Abg. Brosz: SPÖ government!]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: What does the union say about it with you?]] With all the love that the USA is making its reindustrialisation, we are producing the best products here in Europe, especially in Austria. And for us it is a huge chance to achieve this free trade, and therefore we should not risk the entire project by panic. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: But not at the expense of standards, of jobs and!]] - Yes, eh! Mr Pirklhuber, we are talking about the standards. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] The talk about the “blood chocolate” back 20 years ago was really disinformation of the population – the attempt of Jörg Haider as chairman of the FPÖ to say: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riemer]] You must vote against EU accession because your chocolate will no longer be from the purple cow and cocoa butter, but from blood! – that was just wrong! [[Intrusions of the Abg. Steinbichler as well as representatives of the FPÖ]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] It was a disinformation, it was the attempt of panic – and as you hear, ladies and gentlemen, the successors have not really learned anything. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Ederer-Tusender!]] Please, let this be part! [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] I just need to name the chlorinated chicken at this point. Ladies and gentlemen! The washing of chickens in chlorinated water is prohibited in Europe. Someone has to tell me why the chlorogas – which is allowed – is better; but that's just a small thing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riemer.]] In Asia, live chickens are sold – also a form of making them durable longer – but then there was bird flu and SARS. [[Interlocutory calls from MEPs Neubauer and Schwentner.]] Therefore: Of course you can argue about the standards, but you should keep in mind what it is about. It is about debossing the surface of the chicken meat before it is traded. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Disinfectionant!]] And quite honestly: This is a method before which, although we have to use it in some form, we will have a salmonella problem, Mr Pirklhuber. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Production is no longer okay!]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] So let's hope that our dear locally produced Sulmtal chickens are as germ-free as possible in our cooling shelves! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ and the Abg. Kogler.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Read the application!]] - Thank you for coming! [[Call the SPÖ: We'll be careful anyway!]] The second part: To whom the fear of local production and the local food comes, be written only in the main book: There was no pasta in Italy, if not 17-year-old Marco Polo at the beginning of the 13th century. ==References====External links== – So much about free trade! We don't have a parade, we don't have any potatoes, all this is a result of free trade. [[Demonstrative applause with the NEOS.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] So if you take the Wiener Schnitzel – actually an Italian schnitzel – as a local food, you should be pleased that there is this variety. [[Abg. Steinhauser: As a Social Democratic I would be ashamed!]] [[Abg. Neubauer: Shame as Social Democratic!]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] Back to the subject.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e18082	Ladies and gentlemen, every political group and theoretically every Member has the opportunity to speak in front of us. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber]] Interlocutory calls – I have said it today – belong to parliamentary use, but permanent interlocutory speeches to prevent the speaker from speaking, which is not one of the uses. So I'm asking you to hold back a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e18109	I would like to make a motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Matznetter, Mr Haubner, Mr President, with a huge chance for the Austrian economy, while maintaining European standards. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler]] Since the request is longer than a page, I allow myself to explain it in the basics. In view of these free trade agreements, which are to be concluded by the EU with Canada and the USA, the Federal Government is invited to adopt the obligation to comply with high social, data protection and environmental minimum standards and to prevent any reduction of European standards.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e18144	Ladies and gentlemen, before you leave the speaker's seat: You must read the application in the text. [[Abg. Matznetter: He has more than one page!]] – The application text is exactly one page long. I have no request to distribute it, so I have to ask you to read it, otherwise it is not properly submitted.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e18177	The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government is invited to the EU's free trade agreements with Canada and the USA, continue to adopt the obligation to comply with high social, data protection and environmental minimum standards and to prevent the reduction of European standards. The aim is to achieve the ratification and implementation of the commitments of the EU's free trade partners from the internationally recognised ILO Conventions and from international environmental agreements. It is also important to ensure efficient monitoring of commitments and a mechanism for resolving differences in the absence of implementation. continue to work towards the European partners and, in particular, the European Commission to strengthen the transparency of the negotiations and public access to negotiation documents and to strengthen the public interest in the preparation and follow-up of negotiations. committed to ensuring that such comprehensive free trade agreements continue to be classified as mixed agreements and are therefore also submitted to national parliaments for approval. the protection of public services vis-à-vis EU trading partners at European level. This means, in particular, that the scope of action at local, regional and national level for the preservation and expansion of public services and/or services. to ensure general care and thus to protect against restrictions caused by liberalisation obligations. The level of protection of the existing horizontal exceptions to public services (public utility clause and “reservation of subsidies”) must be maintained and the right of Member States to decide on the definition, organisation and requirements of public services and the principle of subsidiarity must be respected. It must also continue to be open to Member States, depending on national circumstances and in line with international obligations to ensure their sensitive public services in future trade negotiations. The meaning of the inclusion of ISDS clauses in agreements with States with developed legal systems (e.g. It is not recognizable from the present point of view of the USA and Canada.” [[Bravoruf des Abg. Kogler.]] – I see Nicken at the opposition and hope for the widest possible approval in this area. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, I advise you not to go along with this. Let's go the way together, we'll get our standards! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] The question of arbitration is finally clarified, I believe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e18246	Thank you very much, honourable Member. I'm sorry I had to ask you to read the application. According to § 55 para. Although we could have distributed the amendment to the Rules of Procedure, this would not have taken place until the end of this debate, and it would not be possible to postpone the vote after the next item on the agenda for a resolution. The vote could therefore have taken place only at the beginning of the next sitting, and it is well known that it will not be until next month. I'm sorry, but in this case I had to ask you. I'm asking for understanding. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Kogler: Well thought!]] The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e18339	Next speaker: Mr Grillitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e18360	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Quite honestly, I don't understand the Greens anymore! Mr Kogler, Mr Pirklhuber, Mrs Klubobfrau Glawischnig! Now you want to rule almost in all or in many federal states, even at the federal level. But now you have an orientation problem, because you are still running uncertainty policy. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: (shown on the motion for a resolution)]] Government work means responsible and providing people with security, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Therefore, we should go into a discussion where we are not hysterically talking about something and painting the devil on the wall, but where we are really emotion-free, objective, competently trying to show the opportunities and risks and to find clear positions here in this Parliament together. A global market, which I say quite openly, of course also requires clear rules of play to be developed here. [[Abg. Kogler: Comparable standards!]] But global market also means that there are opportunities, export opportunities. [[Abg. Kogler: Yes eh!]] For example, the Austrian farmers produce more than domestically can be sold. That is why we also need to see export markets, also taking advantage of this opportunity. At the same time, we should discuss the need to force Mr Pirklhuber, through clear labelling, through clear transparency in the domestic market of regional products. This is the discussion we should have here, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Right!]] Austria has a very, very important pioneering role at EU level in terms of standards. I believe that the EU position or a strong EU position in these negotiations can also be a protection mechanism for Austria, ladies and gentlemen. That is why we stop being insecure! It is possible, as we know, that you also know when you try to discuss objectively, objectively, objectively. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: There we have our request!]] For example, the Federal Animal Protection Act in 2005, one of the strictest laws we have, with clear rules of play, where we have collected the longings of consumers, but also in this international market we have already ensured the practical capacity for our farmers. That was a great story here in this high house. That was Parliamentaryism, which I would like to ask myself now, ladies and gentlemen. Believe me, none of us want unlimited import here, no one! [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Very good!]] We want these clear rules for the game we're fighting for. We are committed to this by, for example, forcing agricultural agriculture, as we have it in Austria, where consumers stand to know where they are, where they are producing, which we want to make marketable, which we want to place fair competition. We want, and we are quite clear, no industrialized agriculture, where genetic engineering, hormones and everything are allowed.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e18488	The next item is the report by Mr Bösch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e18509	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of my speech, I can say that we will today also give our approval to the Greens' request to the Federal Government not to accept the CETA agreement in the Council, to the government proposal that Mr Matznetter has read here. By the way, Mr Matznetter, Europe owes to tomatoes and potatoes not to free trade, but to colonial exploitation, you Social Democrats. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Grillitsch. — (FR) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council. In fact, I have expected from the ÖVP that there will at last be reasonable and factual arguments regarding the critical consideration of these agreements, which are planned here. But I became bitterly disappointed. Just like my colleague. He has not shown that he is actually the representative of the ÖVP farmers and an agricultural politician. For, ladies and gentlemen of the EIA, you must be aware that when these agreements enter into force, your entire agricultural policy, which you have made in recent years and decades, will be ad absurd. Then you can put all of your regionality, then you can put all your AMA seal and what is related to it on the steirer hat. I can tell you today. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Kogler.]] Ladies and gentlemen, many of my colleagues have already addressed matters. I would just like to return to the very beginning of this whole matter. The Council has instructed the Commission to negotiate these agreements independently with Canada and the USA. He also gave her the order: However, this is as quiet as possible, so that this blatant public, especially the national parliaments, does not get any of it. It was stupidly the other way round. Unfortunately, something has been learned, and here the rulers see that they have to take action. The public, just like today the Federal Minister, but not only the Federal Minister, Chancellor Merkel and other well-known European politicians, are being presented to the public. One recognizes and admits, yes, with the transparency, that did not go as well as we expected. That is also the content of the government proposal. One realizes that it has gone wrong, and now wants to make up for the failure of the rulers in a request. But that won't work. One is playing the people concerned and would like to say that this transparency unfortunately has something wrong with God, but in the future it will be much better. – Ladies and gentlemen! There'll be nothing better at all. It hasn't changed at all. The mystery will continue, I can prophesy to you. A particularly difficult issue has been raised in this investment protection clause. We have also made ourselves ready in this area to take up a new position. As Allerster, the esteemed Chancellor of the Federal Republic has come up with it, he has recognized it equally. In the context of a populist fore-press, he went to the parade of his coalition partner and said about the “Kronen Zeitung” that as head of government of the Republic of Austria, he was not eligible for an investment protection clause. The ÖVP has swallowed this up, the ÖVP takes note of this, we have heard this today from the Minister for Economic Affairs and pretends as if nothing had been done. Ladies and gentlemen, we liberals believe that a return to the start in all these negotiations will be the only reasonable one. That is why we have repeatedly said that it is important that we negotiate properly at European level. It was also claimed by some previous speakers that this was a mixed agreement. A mixed agreement means that not only at European level, but also at national level, it must be voted on when it is ratified. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a simple claim. If you look at the European level and the debate on this fact, whether it is a mixed agreement or not, I can tell you today, that this dispute is not settled and that the Commission and all European institutions will make every effort to ensure that the national parliaments will have nothing to say in these agreements. Ladies and gentlemen, it is therefore time for the Federal Government to start representing the interests of Austria at European level.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e18600	Next word: Mr Pock. It would be possible to get to the speaker's desk a little earlier.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e18622	Mr President. Estimated Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! Before I deal with the environment and sustainability, I would like to address both the Green Group's statement and the motion for a resolution. Yes, Mrs Brunner, you're right. 80 percent of resources worldwide are currently used by a third of the population. No, I think you are not right if you put this into line with the free trade issue, because the European Union would have more than sufficient tools to implement measures, even with a corresponding free trade agreement, that we are doing more resource-saving here. Furthermore – and I have to ask that already – the question arises of how you cannot equate prosperity with trade. Mr Schellhorn has already mentioned it, Mr Matznetter has also mentioned it in detail. From our point of view, of course, it is a central element and I would ask the reverse question: Where has trade ever led to an economic decline? In any case, I do not know a single example. For us NEOS, it is quite clear as a central element that economy must serve people and not vice versa. I would now like to address the motion for a resolution of the Socialists and Christian Democrats. We have tried to study him exactly in the short term, and unfortunately we cannot support him for a very specific reason. It is mentioned that the meaning of the inclusion of ISDS clauses in States with developed legal systems, such as the USA or Canada, is not recognizable from today's point of view. We wish ourselves an international jurisdiction. We wish for an international solution. I would also like to justify this. If we look at the example of Hungary today and see how quickly a functioning rule of law can turn out again, we think that an international solution is the right approach. However, I would also like to contribute to facilitating the debate, namely in the area of environment and sustainability. It was mentioned that environmental protection and sustainability are at least difficult to reconcile with free trade. We have already mentioned the transparency on the part of NEOS, which has been mentioned by all sides. We have mentioned that our approach is to remove agriculture from the agreements at the moment, although there is indeed more than sufficient trade at present. But what has not been mentioned – and I think that is known to the environmental speakers – is that there are leaked documents to the CETA agreement. Of course, we do not know whether this is the final version, but in these leaked documents, environmental standards that are already in place are very likely to be defined, in the CETA agreement, not in the TTIP, because we do not know this. There is its own sustainability chapter, where this is clearly defined. And corresponding environmental agreements and standards are also laid down. In other words, we are not here in the Wild West, but these agreements actually deal with the issue of sustainability and environmental protection. What does not happen is that the stakeholders are involved, neither now on the American side nor on the European side. What does not happen is that transparency takes place so that people know what we are negotiating. What is not happening is that we know at all what negotiating mandate our own country has given us. I would now like to offer concrete solutions in the field of the environment and sustainability, and from our point of view: In each area of the agreements, the highest environmental standards must be laid down, without exception, on the basis of high European standards. This does not mean the opposite recognition of the standards, but it applies to each of them higher. For example, there are also some areas in the USA that have higher standards. The attention and scepticism that trade agreements are currently experiencing in Europe can be used as a great opportunity, namely as a pressure element in the negotiations. For it is quite clear that if we do not become more transparent here, if we do not address the concerns and fears of the people, then we will not come to these agreements. I think this is an important negotiating argument for the United States. The fact that, in the event of doubt, the protection of health and the environment has priority, in concrete terms, the right to adopt laws for this purpose must be explicitly and prominently stated in the agreement. On investment protection, I would like to extend once again to Mr Hable's proposal. There is a fear on the part of environmental NGOs that the field of investment protection could become a problem for maintaining environmental standards. We therefore have the following request: the establishment of an international Court of Justice on investment disputes, which could be ratified in a multilateral convention of States, which would be a completely new model and possibly a way out of the previous discussion; the possibility of contractual agreement to settle disputes before the IGIS; the establishment of an appeals court, which may also be used in existing investment protection agreements; Setting up of five judges instead of so far three, of which at least one should be an environmental protection officer. So I think there should be some discussion in the House. Sustainability is important, but it is no barrier to reasonable free trade. – In this sense, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e18716	Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Lopatka, spoke as the last speaker in this debate. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e18737	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that we agree on one thing: that it is one of the most important tasks of policy to create framework conditions that allow as many people as possible to find work, so that they can find their way out as far as daily expenditure is concerned. And if one leaves aside the opportunities that a closer cooperation between Europe and the US can offer, then one makes a big mistake. 45 percent of global economic performance is exchanged between Europe and the USA. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a huge achievement. As a small export-oriented economy, Austria has been able to benefit from every previous agreement – which has already been said by Vice chancellors and Minister of Economic Affairs Reinhold Mitterlehner – today. And what are our goals here? – Our objectives are, of course, to reduce trade barriers, but on conditions that our standards remain. In order to really eliminate concerns that have been expressed here once and for all, I can repeat it again: This Right to Regulate is enforced, that is, that the level of protection we have can be set here at our own discretion in the future and that standards we have cannot be undermined. The second point, also raised several times, is transparency. Yes, we take it very seriously that there are major concerns, partly caused by unfair media coverage, in the population. Therefore, everything is done by the government that, whenever new negotiation steps are taken, transparent information is provided to Parliament and thus to the Austrian population. Third point: At the end of the day, this agreement cannot be concluded by national parliaments. That is beyond doubt. This has been called for by very large European states as well as Austria. The ratification will therefore take place in the national parliaments. The last point, also raised several times, also included in the motion for a resolution: It is questionable whether one actually needs these investment protection provisions with the possibility of complaint. We assume that this point is not necessary. Therefore: In contrast to Mr Kogler, I think it is a step forward if, at the end of the day, such a free trade agreement is to be reached under these conditions which I have mentioned. In addition, the Greens, together with the government parties, have, for a long time, also agreed to this request. Yes, in principle, to the Free Trade Agreement, but under the conditions I have mentioned. Today, in an interlocutory call, you don't need this agreement. [[Abg. Kogler: Including corporate protection clause!]] – We have just said that we do not see this safeguard clause and do not need it. But a free trade agreement is making progress, which I would like to conclude on this debate. As Europeans, we are well advised, as I think, when we consider the situation worldwide, to put this US bashing back into the background. When I look at the social situation, the environmental situation in China, when I take Russia and the USA, I say, from the fundamental values, the USA is still me, I say it quite directly, closer than other blocks of power. And that's why: If we come to an agreement here economically with the standards we want, then I see this as progress. I hope we can understand that.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e18774	In the meantime there is another speech by Mr Steinbichler. The rest of your club's speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e18795	Mr President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear watchers on the televisions and on the gallery! [[The speaker places a panel on the speaker's desk.]] I think it is really historic days, and I said it yesterday, in which, thanks to the urgency of the colleagues, the Greens on this subject TTIP, CETA and TiSA are being discussed again today, and unfortunately, Minister and Vice-President Mitterlehner is no longer in the house. I too am a “Kronen Zeitung” reader. Half five in the early morning at the station start with the “Krone”, with the latest news. However, I would like to start with a very important daily newspaper, with the “New Volksblatt”. Agro-Landesrat Hiegelsberger: Success story Agricultural exports: Innovation secures export opportunities. - Quote. ‘Kurier’, paid advertisement, signed by Mr Auer, as well as by former Commissioner Fischler: Let's get our food. Every day a farm is built. - Quote. You have to explain this field of tension yourself. And then the “Kronen Zeitung”: “UNO warns against climate-collaps”. - Delicious! We have a very great discussion. Why do we have this discussion? – Because it’s in the “Kronen Zeitung” again: Pig farmers: 20 million € lost. - Quote. President Reiser, however, criticises in the same article that this Russian aid comes from the agricultural budget. – This is completely casual, very rarely, that the Catholic Church itself is funding a conversion. [[Abg. Wöger: Page two!]] Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday I heard from my colleague, Mrck, that this was a polemic discussion, today I hear from Vice-Cancecian Mitterlehner that we had panicked, the opposition was panicking. And the best from Upper Austria, so that we can finally come back to the topic of nutrition: Head of State Pühringer recommends knee bending, because a turn hour is too expensive; Landesrat Haimbuchner recommends the turn hour because our children are too thick. Unfortunately, 50 percent of schoolchildren are too thick. But no one talks about eating! Ladies and gentlemen, let's see what lunch menu the children eat in school today, what they eat to keepers – because we need endless durabilitys – what they use in flavors, in artificial colours and in e-numbers. Let us look at reality and thank you for the term “facts” has fallen! Let us remember Mr Obernosterer, who spoke of the important client for the region, that everything will be invested in a radius of 50 kilometres. And now, of course, at autumntime, to the wild weeks a famous gastronomy company with a five-star cook offers a deer leg, but with a problem: The deer keule looks great, the special offer with 9,99 € is also included, just, dear colleagues, the deer comes from New Zealand. He was laid out of the helicopter there in a gate. And this will be seen by us in autumn with Waidmannsheil-Grüß as wild animals from the region. [[The speaker keeps an advertising brochure up to date.]] It goes further with the same provider, but I do not want to become polemic at all, because there could be called other providers. Here we take the side with the fish. [[The speaker shows another page from the advertising brochure.]] Everyone has on his card fish from the local waters, friends and colleagues. This probably means the pangasius fillet from the Mekongdelta, but not from the river, but from the aquaculture, from a concrete basin. But now it's even better. The top-headline reads: “True. Good. From Austria.”, with red and white-red flag, ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, an Upper Austrian company buys into seven nations and, of course, only has Austrian quality. How long are we watching that? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] This has been brought to the fore in the entire discussion today, up to the jobs. Steyr tractors are also produced in Turkey and offered as Austrian Steyr tractors, valued colleagues. Mr Grillitsch, if you say we have a surplus problem, I repeat what I said yesterday: We have an import problem. We import a lot of raw materials from abroad and sell them as Austrian goods. It's just not portable and not durable! Ladies and gentlemen, I have a great request. Today it has been said several times that the government should act, that the government must inform. This is okay, Minister Rupprechter has now complained in America that information has not been asked – this is what today’s “Kronen Zeitung” writes. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] I therefore call for this to be finally implemented at the end of my speech to agree with yesterday's request for the Quality Seal Act, because it is the best protection for our citizens, for our climate, for our environment, for our regional jobs, if we take action against this internationalisation, against these international Boycotts in an area where we can act. This Parliament is capable of acting. I ask for support from our application for the Quality Seal Act. Thankfully, the opposition supported him yesterday. Now it is about the government parties coming along. This is the best and most honest protection. I'm asking for honesty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e18863	The Greens have also decided to use their remaining speaking time. Mr Magnificent came to speak. Kogler. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e18912	Mr President. I'm fine, I'm fine. I am going to address this immediately with regard to the exchange of arguments. But I have rarely experienced a urgent request and corresponding requests, where, in fact, you have always been in the debate, but as far as official opinions are concerned, especially on the part of the Intergovernmental Bank Da or there, I say, except in exceptional terms, that you have not connected but corresponding club members and others here. First of all, I take out only one sentence in order to remain particularly positive. I am in the government's proposal, Matznetter-Haubner, which we very much praise. In view of this criticism, it is incomprehensible that the European Commission intends to announce the end of the negotiations with Canada this week, as has been said, tomorrow and the day after – you have made fun of it at the beginning. That's exactly what the record is: Then there's no big deal going on, they'll clear us up like that. That's the problem! No one has claimed that tomorrow will be paraphrased. It has, as it were, been exchanged with the level of information, we have drawn the same conclusions, and nothing else has been spoken of. By the way, I haven't talked about the chlorhuhn for the whole of 20 minutes today, although that would be a problem. Only, as the APA writes, if a generous Mr Vice-Chancellor does not get along with anything, will this not yet have to be made a problem for Members. That is why I am glad that there are sensible Members like Mr Matznetter and Mr Haubner who make such requests. There's hardly anything to do with this, which we could almost have written. We will also agree, you will hear it. And I would like to say once that one can see how the debate has developed, that there and there one is not so far apart and can come to a point. But if this is all the same now, then we must act immediately. That's why we made it urgent, otherwise we wouldn't have done it any more. Middellehner was right, we are constantly exchanging. We have already discussed some questions. But that's exactly what it was all about: setting a sign before tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. Now the question is: How does the European Commission get, how do the representatives of the Canadian Government in Ottawa and Toronto still get our request? We will then be clarifying this with the Parliamentary Directorate, because I would not be able to give it back to Mr Vice-Chancellor. The Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany is reorientating the “Kronen Zeitung”, but this does not come there so slowly, so we will see how we organize it. Then we got very far. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] So, I'll stay with the positive. You mention the minimum standards, you mention transparency. I don't even talk about this anymore. However, I mentioned in my explanatory statement what the Americans understand. Not the “evil” Canadians, but the Americans make fun of the Europeans and say that this is enough transparency. At the same time, they also talk about these parts, i.e. corporate rights. That was our system today because they are the fire accelerators of this whole story. This is about the group-laws they want. This is probably also the reason why everything should be so secret: because everything else is perforated by it. Where a shale is, it gets even worse, and where something is right, it can also become problematic. [[President Head gives the bell sign]] That's why we want to prevent these problems, you've recognized it. We have a large majority in the Austrian National Council. I don't know who else will agree, but we should make sure that this is in Toronto and Ottawa by tomorrow or the day after, then it's a star hour of this National Council.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e18964	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall proceed to the votes. Debates of the European Parliament Kogler, colleagues on fair and reasonable trade instead of corporate justice. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Kogler, colleagues and colleagues on CETA-TTIP – no special claims rights for corporations. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Dr Christoph Matznetter, Peter Haubner, colleagues on requirements for EU free trade agreements. Whoever is here, please give a visible sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. (E 40.) [[18:30:08]] Short debate on the reply to the question 1606/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e19044	We are now entering the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Families and Youth with the order number 1606/AB. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with a speaking time of 10 minutes for the first speaker. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. I am now looking for Mrs Mag. Meinl-Reisinger as an applicant for the request to open the debate. As I said, 10 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e19078	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewers! This is a question to the Ministry of Family Affairs on strengthening elementary education. In Austria, the training of elementary pedagogues is still not at university level. There is indeed a lively debate on this issue. Austria, and I would like to stress this here, is lagging behind in the European comparison, together with Slovakia. This is clearly seen in the OECD study "Education at a Glance", which was published last month. The status quo is: Training for the profession of kindergarten pedagogues takes place at the educational institutions for kindergarten pedagogy, which in Austria are still the main pillars of this training. We are already at the heart of the problem. Training at this school is beginning at the age of 14 and you can see from the figures of the most important students who finish this school and then on the numbers of those who actually take up the occupation of the elementary teacher, that just a third of them are engaged in the activity in this field. We believe that this training from the age of 14 is clearly too early, that too many leave it and that only a few men opt for this profession. When it comes to the academicisation of elementary education, political resistance is constantly taking place at all levels. I would like to quote the President of the Federal Community of Mödlhammer, who said: Not only can you train academically, you also have to pay academically and create corresponding places for that. This is not true of the covenant, not of the countries, but of the communities. – That’s right, of course. But he also said, and I find this particularly remarkable: “Pedagogy is not included in the community’s competences, but only in the care.” That, ladies and gentlemen, says a lot about the understanding that we still have from day care centres, kindergartens and kindergartens in Austria. In our opinion, this is an educational institution, it is not about care. We have to make a paradigm change there at last! This is urgently necessary. This is also one of the reasons why we demand NEOS to move the entire area of elementary education to the educational area: Because it is better up there because it is about the foundations of the education of our children. You, Mrs. Federal Minister, gave an interview in the summer of the newspaper “The Furche”, saying that you reject the fact that you do not believe that higher education needs to be done. They then meant as a comparison, there is no need for academic carpenters in Austria either. The debate, as I have already said, has now started because, unfortunately, the Secretary of State Mahrer, who has not been present, has voted in favour of it and has then been pruned back immediately. Now to the request itself: We have the impression that neither the education mandate of pedigrees and kindergartens is taken seriously, nor that the government programme is particularly binding on this issue. There, on page 40, among other things, there is a talk on the extension of the continuing and continuing education of the educational universities in the field of elementary education, which should eventually be transformed into a separate training offer. We have addressed twelve questions to you. The result is quite surprising. First: They say that strengthening elementary education is limited to those initiatives to be set up under the new 15a agreement. Now we have to say that this 15a agreement on the primary quantitative extension of childcare, which we very much welcome, is limited here in this area of qualitative development, to voluntaryness. There are no mandatory minimum standards, there is no federal uniform quality or even educational framework, no, it is based on voluntaryness, namely, on the voluntary participation of child care providers in the quality of these care facilities. The second area is the following: In the field of elementary education, you do not say that this is not in your competence. That may be the case, but I also decreed you to ask as a minister and not the situation of competence. And that's where I have to say: On the one hand, you are responsible for the quantitative and, as you say, qualitative extension of child care, on the other hand, you are often mediated about this issue. And I wonder why you do not actually express your opinion to Parliament on this, if you do so very often in the newspapers. The costs are, of course, a subject that you simply cannot hide, but concrete calculations of what is needed for a budgetary surplus are not available to you. – Of course, you are not the cost carrier, but from your side the argument of the costs as a blockade ground is always brought to the meeting. That is why I wonder why you do not express your views here. They would have to have an approximate cost breakdown, even with regard to the additional need. I hope that this issue, which is really so important for Austria, for the education of our children, will not continue to fail in the disputes of competence between the various levels – the federal government, countries and municipalities. This is really about the foundations of the education of our children. This is where the Fund Office is set up, on which one can eventually build in the folk school or also in the other schools. The academicisation of this profession is no longer to be stopped. This shows a look at European foreign countries, and this also shows a look at the many private initiatives that are currently taking place. Just yesterday or yesterday, “Children in Vienna” presented a training offer for their kindergarten pedagogues, namely in their field, in cooperation with the University of Koblenz. I know that there are obvious efforts by the University of Graz to set up a chair there. So this development will not be stopped. I very much hope that the benefits of a truly profound, technical training in the field of basic education will soon be widely known and that a training reform – which we feel is urgently needed to, and this I would remind you once again, to raise the quality of childcare, second to focus on education, thirdly, to gain more educators in the field of day care centres, because we need the educators urgently, and fourthly to win more men, even in Europe – that this training reform no longer allows us to wait. I would also like to know how the real position of the ÖVP is now. I know from the media what you stand for, Mrs Minister, unfortunately not from the question, I know that Secretary of State Mahrer sees this differently; and honestly, I do not want to wait for a whole process of evolution now to get a position from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e19166	Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Karmasin spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e19188	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the High house! Dear Seers! Yes, the topic of tertiary education has been the subject of the last few days, and I am glad that I can express my opinion here if it is not yet sufficiently known, which I have articulated several times in the media and would like to say again here. The BAKIP training and those at the colleges I consider to be a very good education. It should be noted that not all kindergarten teachers with 14 years of age must opt for training, but very probably with 18 years of age. The Commission will be able to make a decision on this matter. So this way over the colleges is now fortunately possible and also gets a lot of encouragement. Especially in Vienna, the need can only be met, because many new entrants – especially women, hardly men, unfortunately – choose this course of training, and I think this is a very good training in the basic areas, basic care, if you want to do so, of elementary education. In addition, I am certainly committed to an extension of tertiary education, but not necessarily for all kindergarten teachers here and today, but in the first step for management functions, for management, for further training and for the deepening of special topics such as language promotion, motor development or other cognitive funding programmes, which I think would be very useful especially in the academic field of education – that is, an addition to tertiary offers and not the replacement of current training. It should also be mentioned that it is very likely that we can already offer this in Austria. From this semester, the winter semester, there are some higher education courses that are just beginning, so it is simply not true that there is no such training in Austria. We have offers in Innsbruck, Graz, Salzburg and also on the FH Campus Vienna. This already starts and is very supportive, apart from the KIWI/Koblenz programme, which is a very good distance course, for which 37 Bachelor students have already applied for it. In any case, that is to be supported and entirely on my line. On the topic of quality in elementary pedagogy: Of course, this is a very important point, and it is very important to support and promote. I can't do anything for it, the 15a agreement regulates my competence, which I can work on. It is not a federal issue at the moment, but a country theme. Currently here and today, we can work through a 15a agreement, which very probably includes a lot of quality criteria, much more than in the last Article-15a agreement. The reduction of the care key to 1 : 4 for the young and 1 : 10 for the 3- to 6-year-olds is an excellent cut in the European average, which is to be sought for Austria, where large subsidies are now granted on a voluntary basis when this care key is applied. We will call on the countries to cooperate very strongly and jointly to develop this reduction of the care key, which is more necessary in individual Länder than in others, and to try to institutionalize it. In addition, there are several other quality parameters that are promoted. Keywords: Men in kindergarten. I also believe that this is an element of quality, for which we invest a total of €450 000, as co-financing for campaigns dedicated to this issue. So there is a clear focus on this issue, which is now, of course, being developed together with the countries. This is to be seen as a minimum investment, which of course is being supplemented by the countries. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In addition, there are promotions in relation to the opening hours, which ultimately also include a quality, the promotion of day parents, the training of day parents. So I think, apart from the spatial improvement measures of accessibility which are being promoted, that is a good package and, well, with € 305 million, as explained several times, the largest expansion offensive of the federal government, which has ever been the one where the countries have also pledged a great deal of support to really pick up this money until the last euro. Accordingly, the Barcelona objective can also be achieved, after which a minimum care rate of 33 percent to the age of six applies. That is why I am very open to further negotiations and inputs in terms of quality. We also like to exchange information about this, and nothing stands against it. And with regard to tertiary training as a complementary programme and as a complemental competence for elementary education: of course, because I am also convinced that we form and promote in elementary education and do not keep or care for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e19254	The next item is Mrs Holzinger's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e19275	Dear visitors to the gallery! Estimated citizens who are on TV or the Internet! Dear colleagues! The current NEOS request expresses the concern that the path outlined in the government programme is at risk of the qualitative development of elementary education. For us it is perfectly clear that the objective and direction of the Intergovernmental Agreement will continue to be adhered to. We insist on this and also want to work comprehensively to ensure that the quality of the hoards, kindergartens and cribs as the first educational institution in the life of a child is constantly improved in the sense of children and child needs. Kindergarten pedagogists are already doing excellent work. I know from my narrowest environment how much heart blood and conviction really are in this pedagogical work. However, there are also challenges in this area, where politics, where we are simply called for, namely that in future we will make the conditions for kindergarten teachers more attractive – the figures have already been mentioned – that we can keep them in their job. That is where we are called, and it is our job to make this job and this profession very interesting for men. We are still at the beginning, with the formulation and the goal set out in the Government Convention, that we want to strengthen elementary education by expanding the range of continuing and continuing education in the field of elementary education and leading to a training offer. But I think we're on the right track. What should not be forgotten is the targeted research task, which has also been defined here. Although in certain statements and quotations in your request, but also in the reply by the Minister, it is unfortunately not clear that things may not be implemented here, this agreement is for us. In this respect, we do not believe that the Government Convention is going to go away either because it is a valuable development that we and the children need in this regard. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Furthermore, we have already established the basis for women and men who opt for primary education at a university of education and place their emphasis on elementary education after graduation, that is, after the Bachelor, as a kindergarten teacher and educator in the professional life. The only prerequisite for this is that countries amend their implementing laws. That is, because of the tertiary training it is then, it is up to the countries to create the basis. As a federal government, we have already laid the foundation for this by means of educational training. But we also have a few things to do with further improvement in the field of childcare. We are pleased, of course, and was also a huge effort to invest around €350 million in the development of childcare, especially for under three years. But this can only be a first step, because, Mrs. Minister, the Barcelona goals will be met by 2018: yes, 33 percent. But the promotions for further creation of childcare facilities must be continued. You yourself have mentioned it as an example, and I think it is in all sense that we reach beyond 2018 the same as model countries – such as Sweden, which can offer around 98 percent of its population childcare facilities – and our population also offer this offer and this possibility. We also work intensively to create a national quality framework with uniform quality criteria, in particular with regard to the opening times of kindergartens, but also with regard to the improvement of the care keys, the improvement of spatial quality, the early promotion of language et cetera. But there is still a lot to be done especially in the opening hours, as we have a large urban-land gap in Austria and especially in the federal states such as Vorarlberg, for example. Parents who are employed who cannot choose it simply need a care, and then there are many kindergartens starting at lunchtime. The fact that these families are in distress is that I do not need to explain to anyone in here, if there is a maximum of five weeks of annual leave and in some federal states there are only seven weeks of closing times. But we have much more to do with the management of the transition from kindergarten to folk school, and that is also decided in the Government Convention. The challenge is to enable a better transition between kindergarten and folk school, which can only be achieved by increasing cooperation between kindergarten and folk school teachers. As social democrats, it is important for us to support all children from the very beginning in the development of their personality and in the learning processes. Therefore, it takes more time for the individual development of the children in the common school entrance phase. Strengthening elementary education is precisely this valuable basis for the first educational establishment in the life of a child. That is why we must stick to it, and I also ask for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e19346	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Straster. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e19367	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Estimated Mrs. Meinl-Risinger! I should like to thank you very much for the many contributions you have made towards the end of the summer and even now in autumn for the further development of our kindergartens, our cribs and also in the field of elementary education. I can assure you, even in our ranks, these things are considered. But one thing I can say: If you want to take people, employees, and institutions on a new path and make reforms with them, then you should first and foremost receive respect and appreciation for the work done so far! I can assure you that in the kindergartens and gardens in our country, excellent work is done by the educators, by the helpers, by the communities, businesses and private institutions. Also in our BAKIPs, the educational institutions for kindergarten education, excellent work is done. I can also assure you that in the western Lower Austria and the neighbouring Upper Austria, highly qualified and highly motivated ladies and gentlemen from these schools come to us. We have best working conditions for them, and for most graduates we also have a job! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The parents and the children in the federal states are also satisfied with the service in the kindergartens and cribs. In this context, I would like to ask you not always to compare the situation in Vienna directly with the situations in the federal states. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: In Education...!]] I can also assure you that there are many activities or initiatives aimed at training, training and specialization in this area. Some have already been mentioned, for example, the reform of educational education, where it is now possible at universities to offer curriculum and studies. Of course, research and teaching must go hand in hand in this area. We looked at this very carefully. In Graz, there is an existing chair, in Innsbruck, Linz, Salzburg and Feldkirch in Vorarlberg, teaching chairs are being built. There is a new course at the FH-Campus in Vienna, and the KIWI initiative has already been mentioned. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Reisinger]] But what you have told us is that our esteemed colleague Karlheinz Dägenle was significantly involved in the development of these offers. At this point: a warm thank you! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Dr. Däderle thinks we have placed strong plants here that will develop well in our educational landscape. Finally, allow me one more thought: We are constantly experiencing in the public debate when it comes to education when it comes to jobs in terms of location policy, the reputation for higher academic rates. There are also voices that, as a counterpoint, have invented the word creation “academization madness”. An interesting word creation: “Academization Wahn”! – On the other hand, I see a great consensus in the population that academic education is not necessarily a guarantee that one will be very, very successful in the profession. Building on these thoughts, I conclude with a quote of a friendly young, highly motivated educator who teaches in a BAKIP and also at a pedagogical college – that is, a man who knows quite well what he is talking about, and who knows the practice very well – today at lunch: We need kindergarten teachers who are practitioners and have a big heart for children, and not just academics. – Thank you very much and very much!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e19428	Next word: Mrs Kitzmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e19460	Mr President. Minister! Love – maybe a few more – listeners! Ladies and gentlemen! About quality of requests or, I say, answers can be disputed. In this case, however, I can say that the level of kindergartens or kindergarten teachers, if we want to express this exactly, will certainly not be raised if we now make the study or care of the children academic. We need to motivate kindergarten teachers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jarolim.]] We must allow them in kindergartens the quality of the work they need. In other words, we have to make kindergarten groups smaller – the approach is already there – and we have to offer them the rooms to actually work freely and unobstructedly with the children. Once again, these are priority points that we must make possible for children and kindergarten teachers. When we look at an academic education, we note that the New Secondary Schools have academically trained professors; and how does the level there look in schools? – Every primary school beats the level of training in the New Secondary Schools at Weitem! We have heard these surveys, and the studies are there that the level has not necessarily increased by the fact that we have academically trained teachers there, professors. [[Abg. Walser: There you are badly informed!]] But the reward, I believe, is also a great point, with which we can motivate kindergarten teachers. [[Abg. Walser: These are the same teachers, still!]] The remuneration of kindergarten teachers is certainly a point that needs to be pursued here. Then we may also have some men who apply to care for the kindergarten children and help them. But if we look at this law of equal treatment – I don't want to say this gender law, I don't want to express it here – we see that women should be preferred if they apply as kindergarten teachers. Well, if we prefer women, where do we have the men? – They are in fact disadvantaged. Here you have to break a lance for the men by saying: Why should not men be employed in that case, rather than women, if we already say that we want more men in kindergartens to care for our children? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have something else here: We have the problem that there is a huge disunity within the EIA. We have the former ÖVP State Secretary, family secretary Marek, who sees it as a special step for a study to take place. Then we have the Secretary of State of Science Mahrer, who also meant how insane it is that a university degree should be completed. Then we have the woman ministers who have re-buffed the whole thing and says: Well, that's not what it means! So how is that supposed to be, and what is to become of it? [[Federal Minister Karmasin: Have you heard me?]] - Of course, always! But how does that look now? By having a university degree for our kindergarten teachers, do we have better care? – We certainly don’t! We need to motivate kindergarten teachers, through better pay, through better conditions in kindergartens and, of course, also an important point, by helping with the framework conditions for kindergartens, in terms of the conditions that the communities need to create, that kindergartens have a better outcome and that they are not constantly bitters in the communities or elsewhere, in order to reach pedagogical resources for childcare and for the children. Therefore, we believe that educational training is very appropriate and that university education is not necessarily necessary. Then how is it to continue with the dayparents, mother-in-laws, day-fathers? Do they have to complete a university degree in the future to become dayparents? – That will certainly be an interesting discussion, and we look forward to it.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e19536	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e19573	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! I see you have returned well from Denmark. I hope it was an interesting visit to Copenhagen, and I hope you have also taken a lot of what you have seen in Copenhagen as an example for Austria, namely academically trained kindergarten teachers, a support key of at least two to three pedagogues per 20 children in the kindergarten, not to mention the children up to three years old. All this you have seen in Copenhagen, we are here to implement it. But what are we doing in Austria? - We're sorry! We regret that there are too few children born in Austria and do not ask why this is so. Because in countries such as Denmark, Sweden, other Scandinavian countries or France, it is precisely the extended childcare facilities and kindergartens that make it possible for women to have children without problems, because there is a suitable offer for the care of children. [[President Bures takes over the presidency again.]] This is not the case with us. We talk about it, we promise where we will become active everywhere, but we will not become active. We still have a quota of only 20 percent for the three-year-olds. We do not even reach the 33 per cent Barcelona target, which should finally be addressed. We regret that children are trained and have language deficits, and refuse to train kindergarten teachers accordingly. And then, Mr Strasser, I appreciate your commitment, but to speak here of academicism, please, that is entirely in addition. No one wants a fully theorized training of kindergarten pedagogues. Of course, practice must play an essential role in this training. [[Congratulation with greens and NEOS.]] Of course, we need kindergarten teachers who go to the children with empathy, with joy and see the individual child. We don't need to talk about it here, what you're talking about has financial reasons. The mayor – and here is one already – refuses to accept. [[in the direction of the Abg. Wheeler]] They do not want better trained educators, because of course they also come a little more expensive. I hear you have 450 000 € for a campaign to bring men to kindergarten. I'm afraid you'll have to start the pay schedule if you want to make this profession attractive. Today I take away the “Small Newspaper”: 50 000 in addition to advertising. – We don't get along with newspaper advertisements at the best will. [[Congratulation with greens and NEOS.]] That's not what we need. We need a profession that also transports the image accordingly in which young people apply to be allowed to take up this profession. And what are we doing? They praise the BAKIP. Yeah, the BAKIP is doing a good training. I know a lot in Feldkirch, I have looked at it very often. [[Abg. Strasser: These are your colleagues!]] – Just, Mr. Collegue, why is it that some 100 graduates are going to kindergarten between 25 and 30 and take up this profession? - Because they say with the Matura: Please, I can't take this job at this payment. – There are classes, there are just two maturants who take up the profession. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] That's why we have to go somewhere else. And that comes to us, please, expensive. Because until Matura, kindergarten teachers are known to have a year longer. Here we make a professional training for a profession – by the way, the BAKIP is one of the most expensive types of schools – which the graduates do not then most of the time take. There are more intelligent methods. Let us let the young women, the young men at the age of 18, decide what job they want to take! Let's do an appropriate academic training, as you have seen in Denmark! On this path, we have to continue and we finally have to get away from this vague idea, that the kindergarten aunt is kind of a judge and that it is only about care in the kindergarten. These times are over, please. [[Congratulation with greens and NEOS.]] The kindergarten is an educational institution, but we don't want to make it to school, not at all. Children's gardeners should be able to continue their activities in this way, but they must know that if a child has a deficit, they must be able to find out, here's a language deficit, here you have to invest in social terms, in terms of language. To that end, we need trained forces accordingly. Unfortunately, Mrs. Minister, we are not on the right track yet.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e19653	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Lugar. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e19674	Madam President. High house! If you look at the request and listen to the demands, you notice that some in the House seem to be very far from reality. [[Abg. Walser: That's it!]] That's just why: We have the problem in some federal states that there are just as many trained educators as assistants, but the assistants do exactly what the educators do. And that's because there's just too little. That is, before we begin to improve the educators and, so to speak, put a higher obstacle on them, we should finally put in place where the problem actually lies. [[Abg. Stroll: (keeping a brochure in height) That's why we have the solution here!]] There are too few. There are too few, because apparently the salary is too low, and you can't go here and say we only want academics, because then the obstacle gets even higher and we get even less. Finally, if we really want to take the right steps and lower the age of entry – we know that we have a quota of between 20 and 30 per cent for the under three years, depending on the federal state – and we want to reach a quota of 50 per cent or better, then we already need hundreds, if not thousands of additional educators. [[Abg. Stroll: Stage plan!]] If we “verband” the assistants there – under quotation marks – where they belong, and also fill it with educators, then we need thousands more pedagogues. That is, when it is ready, we can talk about the improvement of the educators, about the academicization, but not before. And that's exactly the problem we have here, because if you don't look closely, it can happen once before that you ask for something to be lifted, which ultimately leads exactly to the opposite of what we really want. What we want is a pedagogy that starts as far as possible at the second year of life so that we can eliminate all the shortcomings we recognize. We know that these are not only migrant children, they are also children with Austrian background who do not learn the language properly. That's a social problem, here you have to go. But you can only do that if you have more educators. And that's exactly where you have to go. But if you now demand an academic education, then make the entrance seat even higher, there will be even less. [[Abg. Stroll: Stage plan!]] And in the end, these assistants, already employed, will be released after a crash course with virtually no training on our children. – This is probably not what you want.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e19769	Mr Klubobmann spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e19791	Madam President. Appreciate members of the government! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear fellow citizens and fellow citizens! I'm preparing a speech and I can't need it because there's so much that I have to deal with it right now. [[Abg. Rädler: Has failed anyway!]] On the one hand, Mrs. Minister, you're not the Ministry of Marketing. In this case, you have to take care of education, although we think it would be more sensible, this area of elementary education would be part of the Ministry of Education. But at one point he's still with you. You will not render this topic a good service if you say you invest almost half a million in ads. [[Interference of Federal Minister Karmasin.]] You won't get an extra man because that's not how it works. You have to make the professional image more attractive, otherwise the men will not come. That's the way it is. [[Congratulation with NEOS and Greens.]] I think it is good that you have today opened the line that at least in stages you are obviously heading towards tertiary education, but then I also ask for more consistency in the line of your party. Mr Salcher as Chief Advisor for Mr. Mitterlehner says something different than you, and Harald Mahrer as Secretary of State also says something different than you. This slinging course is annoying me, and that on the back of the kids, that's not okay. If I hear other ÖVP politicians, like Mr. Mödlhammer, who says a bit macho, well, there's no need for pseudo-academization or something, but it needs a good heart and a good hand for children, you know, I get such "cables". I do not hold out this trivialization of the support of young people. [[Congratulation with NEOS and Greens.]] Imagine the library on brain research, development research, language research for people between three and six years of age and the library on brain research, development research, learning research and so on for people between 10 and 13 years of age. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] Yes, do you think that this library is smaller for people between three and six years of age? Do you believe that in these people, just because they're small, there's not an infinite lot going on? - They all have children themselves. You know, they explode between three and six years in their development. And we say for the little ones aunt is enough, you don't have to be able to do anything! [[Intervocations at ÖVP and SPÖ.]] And we still find it cool. – That’s machoesque education policy, I don’t get through it. That's on the back of the kids, that's incredible. There's something you need to stop. I can't do that! See if today a fifth of young people aged 15 cannot read properly and You've been discussing school as a whole for 30 years, yes or no, then I have to tell you that it's the assumption that they haven't been able to read at the age of 10. That means we missed something earlier. And, of course, it starts with elementary pedagogy, where we have not set the course in Austria, where we are behind, where we are a final light across Europe. We are a unique final light in the European Union. We have to fix that. [[Abg. Strasser: Grandmaster at the snail pace! They do great work!]] No, Mr Straster, I very much respect that great work is being done. But you also know that for the assistants, different in each federal state, some people are allowed in, who have a crash course of a few weeks. That's not okay. That's not okay. We need to strengthen the professional image. Let us turn the BAKIPs into a secondary level II for social, health and education professions! We can also take the graduates on the trip to kindergartens. And then we put something on it in the tertiary area. That's how other countries do it. As I said at the moment, we are losing 600 BAKIP graduates every year because they go to other professions. One of the most expensive expressions of secondary school II, which we have in the system, is people for occupations that they then fail to perceive. It's the worm in the system. And you're not ready to recognize that. Beate Meinl-Reisinger has led a working group on elementary education. I would like to share with you the most precise concept that is currently in the political market. [[The speaker presented a brochure entitled “elementary pedagogy” to Federal Minister Karmasin.]] You have a government clause, you can write off on the weekend.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e19880	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[19:13:20]] I announce that, contrary to the written communication, the Government template 263 of the Supplements, federal law, with which the Constitutional Court Law 1953, the Civil Procedure Order, the Extraordinary Act and the Criminal Procedure Rules 1975 are assigned to the Constitutional Committee. [[19:13:51]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e19921	I take the negotiations on the 4th. Agenda item again. Mr Magnificent came to speak. Loacker. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e19951	Mr. Ing. Rädler calls hard before I start. That is what I call appreciation in Parliament. Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen in the High House! Now I have put the bow back to the Committee on Petitions, in which a petition has called for a mandatory referendum in the merger of cities and communities. Some – some painful and others happy – have learned the consequences of the community alliances in Styria and how this happened to the population. The fact that things are different shows us the neighbours in Switzerland. The canton of Glarus had the problem that the communities were pleading – a fate they shared with many Austrian communities. It was proposed to the people that in the rural community – where the population meets directly democratically – the 25 communities should be grouped together to ten. And in the discussion with the population a citizen spoke and said why actually ten communities, we don't need them at all, we do three: Glarus north, Glarus middle, Glarus south. – The rural community has accepted this. So, if you involve the population, take it in the boat. Of course, this is much easier in Switzerland than in Austria – you can shake your head, but the evidence has already occurred, Mr Mayor – because the unit is responsible for the revenue, which is also responsible for expenditure. [[in the direction of the Abg. Wheeler]] And the citizens know her exactly when we afford to do everything ourselves, afford a construction department, own a construction building, own a cultural house, own a swimming pool, then we also have to pay it ourselves with our taxes. The Austrian financial logic, according to which the federal government collects the substantial part of the funds and then distributes them afterwards and allows the national leaders to distribute them into political acts of grace, is of course another. That's where it's hidden. And it may also be much more convenient for a mayor when he is standing in front of empty cash registers to waver at the head of state. And it is much finer for a head of state to drive with his eight colleagues to the Minister of Finance and to extort a little more money. That is why some things have been changed. It is not enough if we in Austria are always talking about reforms and demanding them, but the financial compensatory negotiations are postponed. If one does not implement the reforms politically and simply extend the financial compensation, then it continues as before and we have the same expenditure salad as before. We could make a much more modern policy. We could have a more democratic, more federalist state. That is why I am now submitting four proposals to our group: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] There are already good examples. There are good examples for community cooperation in my home country, but there is absolutely more. And the more responsibility the communities themselves bear, the sooner they are willing to take over them. That is why we would give the communities this responsibility directly.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e20081	The motions for resolutions which have just been tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Magnificent, have been put forward. Gerald Loacker, colleagues and colleagues are sufficiently supported and are therefore involved in the negotiations. The four applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e20252	Next speaker: Mr Keck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e20273	Madam President. High house! Many interesting suggestions and ideas in the form of petitions and citizens' initiatives were included in the last Committee meeting. This time I would like to highlight more closely, as a works council representative of workers, the citizens' initiative, which is about the citizens' initiative 44 on the "Information obligation for underpayments and extension of expiry periods". This citizens' initiative states that local health telephones and financial services are regularly established in the event of contribution reviews. claim that companies remain guilty of social security contributions because, among other things, they have unlawfully paid out too few wages and salaries to their employees. This results in a loss of income, mainly due to the 43 620 persons concerned in Upper Austria alone, of € 57 million, or € 1 316 per year and employees' earnings and salaries retained only in Upper Austria alone. It is around €200 million across Austria. In addition, it should be noted that the workers concerned are not even required to be informed of any underpayments. In other words, the abuse is known, but workers affected by it must not even be informed. The Citizens' Initiative therefore demands that employees be informed when a check shows that they receive too little wages or salaries, for only in this way will they be able to raise legal objections. In addition, this citizens' initiative calls for expiry periods to be regulated by law. Here, too, the legal three-year limitation period for claims arising from the employment relationship as a minimum period of time must be asserted in order to enable these workers to claim the claims which they are entitled to. This important concern, ladies and gentlemen, has been given appropriate support. In the meantime, with online support and signed written support, it is already 18 000 citizens who have supported this citizens' initiative. I too fully support this citizens' initiative. I hope that it has been assigned to the Committee that all the parties here in the House will put an end to this abuse.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e20321	The next item is the report by Mr Kunasek. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e20343	Madam President. High house! In short, the NEOS applications. Yes, we liberals will also agree to these requests. When it comes to bringing community cooperation to a better level and making it possible, it is also quite in the sense of our liberals. We have also had the situation in the Styria, where we have experienced exactly that, namely that one has therefore been forced to merge, because often the arguments of the mayor have been: We can't cooperate better. That is, we liberals say: Reforms, yes, but no forced mergers. The amendments tabled by Mr Loacker are, in principle, in line with our position, but I would really like to take this into account, especially on the basis of the experience gained in Styria, Mr President, I would like to say that it would be good to involve the people and thus also to ensure more attractive Community policies, ladies and gentlemen. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Loacker.]] For one thing is clear, we stand for good municipal policy and we need mayors, we need councillors, but above all we need the people on board. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Loacker.]] It would do us good in politics to listen to the people again in total and to live less perhaps the church tower thinking, which has often kept in the communities.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e20397	Mrs Diesner-Wais has spoken. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e20418	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen in the High House! I would like to comment on two points that concern our young people in our society, our children, because they should be our focus. They are our future and they must protect it. The petition concerning the maintenance of children of single parents – stop child poverty! notes that the Austrian child support law has gaps. In particular, it is noted that the current regulation carries out process risk and risk when the maintenance requirement is not met on the back of the children. Our Minister of Justice Dr. Wolfgang Brandstetter has already announced improvements. This is important, because it is precisely the single parents who often have to endure mutilating maintenance procedures, and this is then carried out on the back of the children. Supporting single-parents is particularly important because they have a great job to do, they bear the responsibility for the children and often live at the poverty line. Preventive measures against child poverty are therefore necessary. If the child can develop well, if it experiences good education, we prevent the child from falling into society as an adult person, not to the state, but to us. That is why Minister Brandstetter, as I have already said, is working on a comprehensive reform package so that it meets the requirements of time. We have allocated this issue to the Committee on Justice, because it is so important. Now a few words about another initiative on mobile and Internet use by our children, because technological development is taking place very quickly, including the development of social networks. This, of course, brings many positive aspects for our young people, but it also presents many dangers. This initiative shows the problem areas such as cybermobbing by which children are evaded in social networks and are exposed to mental stress. There are also many videos that lead to violent crimes and violence. When a child is constantly accessible and constantly confronted with these media, a addiction arises. That is why this issue is of course very important to us by the ÖVP. Some schools also react by not being allowed to use at any time. That is why we have also requested opinions from three ministries and assigned this petition, because it is so urgent and important, to the Teaching Committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e20468	The next item is the report by Mr Hechtl. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e20489	Madam President. Appreciate High House! The present petitions and citizens' initiatives have addressed various issues relating to society. It has been mentioned in detail earlier, which topics are very specific. However, the collective report also confirms to me how responsibly this committee deals with these citizens' initiatives and petitions. I would perhaps like to look at a citizens' initiative a little closer. The Citizens' Initiative 50, "Worktime FAIR Shortfalls, Work FAIR Parts: For 7 hours working day and overtime reduction”, the aim is to reduce daily working hours to seven hours or to reduce them to 35 hours per week by law and to force overtime reduction. Especially at this time, the issue of the citizens' initiative is particularly important, which we attach great importance to. For fair working conditions, social democracy is, we have always stood up and will continue to do so in the future. The example in the 1970s, the legal reduction of working time from 45 to 42 or 40 hours in the legal framework, shows the great importance. The industrial concept 4.0, and this is not to be concealed, shows the robotization and also that we will not pass a legal measure to reduce working time in the longer term. However, I would like to point out that, in the current implementation, we cannot take a different path or take this path that this citizens' initiative provides, namely now, a legal reduction in these working time frameworks. This is for one reason because now the geopolitical economic conditions do not allow the general reduction of working time by law. We believe that this is the best way for the social partners to regulate by industry, and are confident. In this sense, the government programme has also established that a reduction in additional labour costs should occur. We fully support this. Our big goal will be more net of gross. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e20531	Mr Magistrate has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Smoking. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e20553	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The Committee on Petitions already sees one thing, namely that very, very many petitions that come into this committee also have a kind of seismograph function for what is moving people in Austria today and which topics are dealt with medially or in federal politics. I want to look more closely at a petition. It is in a petition about closing a refugee home in Gries am Brenner in my native Tyrol. I think there is another reason for this to happen, and this is being discussed hotly just these days: How do we distribute the refugees? I think we have a good asylum law, and I do not understand the criticism of the FPÖ of this asylum law, because the basic structure of this law dates back to 2003, and it has been negotiated by the FPÖ decisively, I admit, but it has always been innovation. But if we look at refugee policy, I believe that Austria must already ensure that this Article 15a agreement, the quota system, is implemented as well as possible. Austria is the top 4 in the per capita ratio, in the ratio of residents to asylum seekers and refugees, and I believe that à la longue is such a small country as Austria. That is why, in the future, apart from the Austrian asylum solution, in which the Minister of the Interior is on the right track, a European quota system is needed, whereby we simply have to deal with this issue at EU level. Then à la longue cannot be so that there are always four, five, six, seven countries that meet their standards. This starts with uniform asylum standards. If the standards are uniform, then, of course, asylum tourism will also be countered. I think we are on the right path if we simply reduce this to three sets in asylum policy: Just help when it comes to help. Of course, stop when it comes to abuse, but also punishment when it comes to crime tourism and towing. In this sense, I hope that in Austria we will achieve a measure of refugee care. But in the future, this challenge will only be possible at European level. – Thank you very much for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e20610	Mrs Yılmaz is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e20631	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! My speech also refers to the petition against inhumanity that we have dealt with in committee. I can't imagine that there's someone here in the hall who can be inhumane to treat asylum seekers and asylum seekers. I very much welcome this initiative because I am proud that we in Austria have a civil society that not only accompanies, advises and helps asylum seekers in this sad situation, but it is also concerned about how it could be even more human, how we could help them even better, and it also makes proposals. It is also pleasing in this matter how the Ministry of the Interior has responded. There have been several preliminary talks – I know of two – and what has been said is that they stay in conversation with civil society – there is the deacony there, Caritas, Volkshilfe, Amnesty and many others too – that is, they stay in dialogue in order to bring about real improvements. A few days ago, the President of the Mödlhammer municipality, in an article, very beautifully analysed the problem and also put forward proposals. I would like to quote the last paragraph: We all, the Federal Government, countries, communities, have the obligation to give asylum seekers a decent accommodation until their status is determined. This is a common organisational and financial responsibility. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I can not only agree to this, but I must also stress it, because mutual debt allocation will not help any mayor, any single community, no refugee, any asylum seekers. – In this sense, thank you very much for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e20678	As the last speaker, Mr Magistrate is speaking. It's a kilnauer. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e20699	Madam President. High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! Also the Bun- Heer was a topic in the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives. The initiators are concerned about the functioning of the federal army. I understand this concern, because I increasingly have the impression that the political will to take reforms seriously is more likely to end. Ladies and gentlemen, the ÖVP confesses itself to the German army, and it acknowledges the general obligation of military, as the popular survey in 2013. The ÖVP is also committed to the new Austrian security strategy, which the National Council adopted in resolution of 3. ==References====External links== The population has given a clear mandate, it must now be implemented, and our Minister of Defence is required here, because the government programme of this Federal Government explicitly refers to the Austrian security strategy. This was already known during the negotiations for the 2014/2015 budget. Mr. Klug, Minister of State, has himself negotiated the budget in the knowledge of this security strategy and in the knowledge of the tasks arising from it. It is now his responsibility to organize the German army with its tasks according to the given financial framework. We have heard much about war and peace, hatred and violence in today's debate on jihadism and neutrality. Unfortunately, the world is only apparently peaceful, and it is up to us not to encourage the increasing radicalization by means of unnecessary donations of words. All the more so, there is a need for awareness that, in order to fulfil the security strategy and maintain the security of the population, a functioning federal army is essential. At the moment, however, an escalation appears consciously to be caused and the federal army to be driven to the wall. But this certainly leads to uncertainty, dissatisfaction and fear. It's clear: If the Federal Government has problems, they are not only to be solved through the budget, but they need innovative ideas and a set of priorities. I'm sure the soldiers are for both. You only need a corresponding order, and I miss it. In any case, we of the ÖVP always have to work together to develop and implement viable solutions for the preservation and stock of the Austrian federal army.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e20757	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives to take note of its report 265 of the additions to petitions Nos 1 and 2, 11 to 13 and 15 to 19 and of the citizens' initiative No 17, 21, 44, 45, 47, 49 and 50. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who give their consent here to a corresponding sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Schenk, colleagues and colleagues on 'Austria needs an anti-mobbing law'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Loacker, ladies and gentlemen on citizens' participation and information in the financial compensatory negotiations. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Loacker, colleagues on regional communities. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Mr Loacker, ladies and gentlemen, on the financial constitution. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Loacker, colleagues on framework conditions for community cooperation. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[19:40:18]] 5. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the 2013 Joint Economic Performance Report, presented by the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology (III-98/266, D.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e20882	We're now on the 5th. Agenda item. I welcome Mr Stöger. There was no oral reporting. Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e20912	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Common Economic Performance Report is already an exciting thing. Behind this technical word is a large sum of money that we don't just give to the ÖBB, but mainly to the ÖBB, but – and that's now this big But – that's not a promotion, that's a purchased performance and that's tax money. That means there's a responsibility to bear. If you break this down to the very simple needs of the taxpayer, who then rides with the ÖBB or with other companies, then it is very easy to know what he wants. He wants a punctual train connection that wants cleanliness: Cleanliness on the seat on which he intends to sit, on the floor, in the sanitary area. The space has to fit, pitches are more suitable for other facilities. And if something happens, he would like to be informed in a timely and correct manner. How is this now being reviewed in the framework of this public service contract? Performance must also be checked so that the money can be earned. – There are once the samples from the SCHIG mbH. As I say, it is nice if Mr Putz and his staff draw appropriate samples, that may also have his statistical accuracy, but for me the whole thing will only be really fat, if it is more widely tested. Who's doing the tests? - That's the VCÖ. The Director-General, Mr Kern, said: That's our preparatory organization. [[Abg. Heinzl: Well, you confuse them with the greens!]] Well, that's a little bit like the ÖVP says she's been tested by the Farmers' Federation. It may be all honest, but it's worth it, please, none. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I myself have been asked a little bit during this review, and professionally, please – I know Toni, you can laugh, I have laughed afterwards – that was really not professional. Perhaps the ÖBB can look for another one, a really professional examiner, because then you can say with good conscience that the money is applied properly and well. Quality required in this context is provided by the employees. But that only happens if they experience appropriate appreciation. If you say about the employees, they're a cost factor, then it looks a little different again. Let's see what's in the GWL Treaty: Well, a profit margin was granted to the ÖBB, but on the one hand, the personnel costs are growing, which are indicated by 2.5 percent, and in reality we experience on the other hand that ongoing staff is being reduced. I can't cut the sentence. The €150 million profit, which we last saw distributed by the ÖBB, has been achieved at the expense of the staff. The keyword is, "unscrupulous." I don't want to strip the theoretical and technical word zero-to-zero operation at all. For me, this means that, for example, schoolchildren or older and fragile persons may have to evacuate themselves or have to do with any problems. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] We know assaults on the crew are piled. In other words, there are people on the trains who are not quite flawless. I want to protect not only the ÖBB staff, but above all the passengers. The only problem is that there's no one. Therefore, this unscrupulous operation must be rejected. You don't have to go that far and bring the accident to Leobendorf, colleague Rädler. It went well again. There God has only given light to the injury. The problem is, if something like this happens in a tunnel when something like this happens on the free route and not by chance at the train station, then the students can evacuate themselves in the early morning. If someone in there is disabled, who's going to get him out? – The driver may be forced in front or unable to do so in the course of a fire. Who's doing that? That is unbearable, and that is also the reason why we reject this report as such in the final effect, even though it has some good approaches, but that is not the case. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! In the course of this contract and these regular payments, take a look at the fact that the management is appreciating the staff! Make sure that the staff is not a cost factor on whose back you may be able to win a few million euros! Check that the services that are required and which are also precisely specified can really be provided in the final effect! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e20961	Mr Heinzl is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e20984	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! So there's one thing that's going to happen. Dear colleague Dipl.-Ing. Deimek, you know, I really appreciate your policy on transport policy very much, but that the VCÖ is a precursor organisation of the ÖBB – apologise if I laughed there – that can only be the statement of an opposition politician. [[Abg. Deimek: That was the Director-General himself!]] That's how I see it. Ladies and gentlemen! Public transport, especially public transport, is a central issue in transport policy. How seriously we take this issue seriously appears every year in the so-called Community Performance Report, which has already been discussed today. It is also clear to us that, under purely market conditions, a public transport system that meets the objectives of Austrian transport policy is not feasible. It's known to us. However, in order to ensure modern mobility, the Federation takes money, not little, into its hands. These are the so-called public services. These amounts, I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, are a very clear statement: Public transport, especially public transport, is important to us. One thing I'm allowed to say: While a company, of course the ÖBB, was directly supported earlier, it is now being specifically invested. First of all, investment is being made in the development of infrastructure, creating values for generations, second there is the promotion of cheap train tickets in public transport, and thirdly, the transfer of freight from road to rail. Now a few numbers: In the field of passenger transport with twelve railway undertakings, the corresponding contracts were concluded in the previous year, and they were also promoted. A total of 77.1 million railway kilometres were funded. Almost 250 million passengers benefited from this last year. Compared to 2012, this is a plus of about 4 percent. So that's quite a success story. In total, the federal government supported passenger transport in 2013 with a further €671.4 million, of which €619 million was for the ÖBB, the rest for the private railways. Distinguished, highly esteemed Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to the very important instrument of criminal or bonus payments in the support system. You know, train failures, delays and other shortcomings lead to a reduction in support. If the agreed target values are exceeded, for example in the case of punctuality and customer satisfaction, there are also bonus payments. With the turn of the year, this system also applies for the first time to the eleven private railways and not only to the ÖBB. Ladies and gentlemen! The shift from road to rail is a transport policy principle that must not be lost sight of, and it will be implemented successfully in Austria, as I believe, for years. This is why the public authorities also support the relocation of freight transport to rail, particularly in the field of the transport of dangerous goods. Another number: In the previous year, the total amounted to € 93.9 million, of which € 16 million went directly into the promotion of the rolling country road. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Federal Minister! We in Austria are rightly proud that about a third of all goods are transported on the rail instead of on the road. There we are European champions. That's where we're top in Europe. [[Abg. Moser: But there was a lot more! It should be more!]] In summary, ladies and gentlemen: Public services are an important contribution to a successful and sustainable transport policy. We are rightly proud of it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e21034	Mr Ottenschlager is speaking on behalf of the European Democratic Group. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e21055	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! We are discussing the report on the so-called public services. Maybe briefly to the explanation: It is tax resources that we have decided to issue them for certain services. I would like to put a few figures here, some of which have already been mentioned by Mr Anton Heinzl: In 2012, approximately €656 million were spent, and in 2013 it was around €671 million. Of these, about 92 percent went to public public public transport for passenger transport and about 8 percent to private railway operators. However, I would like to point out – I would add why I am saying this – that in 2010, for example, we had planned € 387 million for this. I would also like to make a small criticism, although the report is, in principle, very informative. Mr Federal Minister – or Madam President – that was still under your aegis; thank you very much for this – it would be very helpful if we were to get a separate designation of passenger and freight charges so that we also know in freight traffic what ÖBB gets and what private railway operators get. I have therefore also mentioned the number from 2010, because I believe that it is necessary that we take a very close look at the development of public services. Costs rise. Yeah, it's probably higher passenger numbers, which is also good. We are also in favour of this, but we must closely monitor the development, as has been said. I think we have to consider how, in particular, in the sparsely populated areas, in the rural areas, we are dealing with this issue, because what we do not want is that there is no infrastructure, no more mobility. Perhaps we are considering an evaluation of certain routes, perhaps also of alternatives on certain routes, such as the mailbox, which comes more flexible, direct to the towns and which can also be operated more cost-effectively. I would also like to point out that in the context of the debate in the European Parliament – the key word: various railway packages – there is also discussion of the procurement arrangements in this area. What do I mean by that? – At present, we have mainly the system of direct awards. This means that by the Ministry the services are given directly to the operators, and here, of course, especially to the ÖBB. But we will have to compete more and more in the future. This trend is perfectly clear and it also has advantages. In this context, I would like to point out, Mr Federal Minister, ladies and gentlemen, that we may also be more involved in this discussion – for example in the construction industry – than to carry out forgiveness not only in accordance with the low-cost bidder principle, but also in accordance with the best bidder principle. And I believe that this would be a very imaginable way, especially in the area of railways, mobility, that we can see that we can deliver quality, quality for the citizens, the it is dependent on it, especially in the areas which are not so densely populated and which do not have the appropriate close-up infrastructure. Summary: We need to look at how we deal with the means of taxation efficiently and how we create the best possible offer – the best bidder principle in the award process – in order to maintain the quality here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e21107	I call Mr Willi. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e21128	Madam President. Mr. Minister, I'm glad you're here! Ladies and gentlemen! It is about this thick book, the performance report on the public services of the year 2013. To us – that is why we have put this report to the plenary session – is a train that works customer-oriented, which offers high quality, and we want it to be handled carefully with tax money. Firstly, Mr Minister, a compliment to the report: I think this report will become more informative from year to year. We get more numbers, even better numbers. [[Abg. Moser: Yes, but only on our pressure for decades!]] I hope that this fresh wind in BMVIT will last below you. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: But the current President Bures was still responsible for this!]] Thank you, of course, for the Madam President, who was still responsible. So the fresh wind comes from a woman – and continues with a man so to speak. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] So, but what are we talking about? – We talk in total of over €620 million, which the Austrian railways receive for passenger transport. Now it says the same thing, 620 million euros are a lot of money. A small number of comparisons: We support the commuters with the Pendler Pauschale. The car shuttles alone receive around €800 million per year, more than all trains for passenger transport. [[Abg. Heinzl: Transport!]] Goods transport will again receive € 75 million, so that we have a lot of goods, especially dangerous goods transport, on the rails, so that there is more combined transport and that we maintain railway stations or service stations for freight transport, although they do not actually expect. I think that's a very smart investment. But now the important thing: 85 percent of these funds go to public transport, 15 percent to long-distance transport. So the bigger part goes to the public transport, and what do we see? – This leads to interesting and correct effects. Local transport in the railways has grown by 5.5 percent in Austria – a remarkable number! –, long-distance transport by 1.7 percent, so only one third of it. That is, the service provider is the local transport. But do you know the advertising of the ÖBB? That's always where you see the Rainlet, always fast. Yes, that's great, but, Minister, your success product is local transport. If I have a product of success, I focus on my product of success and therefore on local transport. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl.]] My appeal, as in my last speech in the last part-session, is that you make a certain shift, so that the long-distance transport is operated with wide-track and that the long-distance transport – I know – is also a bit narrower, so that Their success product, the local transport, is even more successful. I'll bring you a number again. We've managed to make 7.7 billion miles of people by rail. So that's really a beautiful number! It can also be seen that two thirds of these miles of passengers are transported by public transport and one third by long-distance transport, which means that long-distance transport is also hit by long-distance traffic. Now I have to quote an important sentence that is in the government agreement – I quote –: “In order to increase the attractiveness of public transport, the system of the integrated cycle roadmap will be introduced according to the Swiss model and the supply of local and long-distance transport will be extended according to the budgetary possibilities of existing systems.” That is to say, you have taken a model, namely Switzerland, and it is indeed the case that the Swiss are the world champions. I think we should make Switzerland a model – not everywhere, but on this issue. My request is: Do it! Integrated cycle schedule means first of all a great offer and a minimum supply to the smallest place, second short route options at the knots, and that also means high quality, user-friendliness and at the end for the consumer, for the customer, attractive ticket prices. There are two federal states that are great, Vienna and Vorarlberg: 365-€ ticket, i.e. a whole year all the public around 365 €. And I tell you, we would like that in Tyrol, too, in Upper Austria, in Styria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gartelgruber.]] That's where we need money, we have to take it into our hands. You must take this into your hands and help the federal states to succeed. You're looking for 10 percent increase, but I'm telling you, that's going to be too little. That is, we have to do two things to bring people to the environmentally friendly traffic: create a great offer with such services that are mentioned in this report, and on the other hand by offering attractive tickets. I hope that in many of your wallets there are annual tickets for public transport, in any case, they are well removed, and I enjoy them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e21213	Mr Hagen has spoken. Speech time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e21235	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Yes, an extensive report, if you look at it, with many nice statistics, there are a few pictures inside – interesting to look at, good success. [[in the report]] Ladies and gentlemen, you can of course give praise to the officials of the ministry. He's very extensive, but I'm just saying, Nothing new in the West or the East! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, what I want to do: I would like to address a few small points that may have raised me a little bit or that have made me a little curious. If I were to quote the whole report, we would still be here tomorrow. One is the punctuality statistics. The punctuality statistics, like many statistics, are a little beautiful. Mr Federal Minister, we have already discussed this in committee. The problem lies in the fact that if a train fails completely, which is not reflected in the statistics, it simply falls away. That is why we are very timely in punctuality statistics, because these real train failures are not registered, that is a small trick. We all know the saying: Don't believe any statistics you didn't fake yourself! – The numbers speak for themselves, so that's a nice of numbers. This is something I would like to criticize, and perhaps it could be a little different in the next report. [[Abg. Heinzl: the most punctual train in all of Europe!]] – That is why we are the most punctual train, because we simply remove the trains that do not drive. That's where we have to expect the full time. That's the one point. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Heinzl.]] I would also like to go into a few small things as a good high-speed driver and someone who rides on the train from time to time. In the event of shocks, I notice that the train might not have enough access to it. When I take the train from Vorarlberg to Vienna, I like to take the Rainjet on Sunday in the late afternoon. And the train is overcrowded when you drive in the second class – in the first one it goes half way, there you get another place –. Then the soldiers from the Federal Army, who drive to Salzburg, sit in the luggage compartment, because they no longer have a seat. Of course, this is not an optimal thing, and you have to consider whether you might extend the train by adding a yarn more. It's a logistical story. The second point: If I don't travel by train to Vienna, I fly from time to time, and occasionally I also drive by car. And if I fly here, I will of course drive on Friday afternoon with the quick train from Vienna to Schwechat. I always notice that there are two trains that are connected to each other. The one does not stop at every station, but only at certain stations, that is, it moves faster towards Schwechat or to Wolfsthal. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Cap.]] This train is always extremely crowded, and it is usually carried as a short train so that it is even more overcrowded. People are standing on each other's toes, and I don't want to know what happens – I've thought so often – if there's really a problem when it comes to an emergency brake or something else, then we've got a bunch of hurts right away, because people are pushing in there. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Now you can say that nothing can happen, no one can fall by because people are so close together. But I think that's the wrong tactics, and I noticed that it hasn't happened until now that these tractors have been enlarged once. There's still the short train. That's not a bad thing. [[Abg. Pendl: Just say it's all right!]] The students are out, the pendlers are out, the people want to go to the airport. The management should respond; this is a manko I would like to address now. Then there's something else that's holding me off as a Vorarlberger from the train ride. Mr Walser has also mentioned this in the Committee: It's the duration of the ride. When I drive from Bregenz to Vienna with the Railjet, it usually takes 6 hours 50 minutes if it does not have a delay. But that's more common, then we're over 7 hours. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Cap.]] The problem is, the route between Salzburg and Vienna is two and a half hours away, and in the rest of Austria – also Vorarlberg belongs to Austria, as well as Tyrol – too little investment is being made, Minister. There you have to expand the railway that there is really a competitive transport offer there. Because if I need to use the car between five and six hours, depending on the traffic situation, from Vorarlberg to Vienna and by train one hour longer, then something goes wrong. Mr. Minister, you still have a few tasks to do. I'd like to give that to you. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] On the whole, it is a clear report, but please also take the criticism and the demands and the factual reports that we welcome as a parliamentarian outside. I'd like to give you a hand and invite you: Improve the whole, you will get more customers! They will not only be the best in the West, they will be the best in Europe among the train drivers, yes, they will be the best if you make the offer accordingly that it is good for the people who invest their tax money in the train. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e21341	Mr Pock is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e21378	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! The 2013 Joint Economic Performance Report has basically shown a solid picture, I join with three very constructive amendments. We must be in favour of the report that we have increased in punctuality, that we have increased in quality and also implemented some improvements in monitoring. In concrete terms, however, there is a clear need for reflection in some other areas. First of all, I would like to support Mr Georg Willi's speech on favouring local transport. Statistics speak a very clear language: In local transport we transport more people from year to year, compared to last year there were 5.5 percent more passenger kilometres this year, while long-distance transport stagnated. At the same time, however, we see that the focus on long-distance transport is placed on infrastructure projects, which are currently being discussed or are being implemented. In other words, there is a discrepancy between the success of local transport and the expansion of long-distance transport. What is essential to not only talking about tunnel construction projects, is that we have to put on a clear look at transparency and realistic cost-benefit calculations. We need to create the basis for decision-making here, which has provided a cost-benefit study, but also a cost-effective study, and of course both studies must be published. Then there would be no discussion as at present at the Brenner Base Tunnel, because then we would have conducted it several years ago. What I actually wonder about the transport sector is the following: I would just like to address the costs of the three major tunnel projects. The coral tunnel is €5.37 billion, the Semmering Base Tunnel is €3.31 billion, the Brenner Base Tunnel – only the Austrian share, but not yet the EU contribution – is €5.03 billion; everything from the ÖBB Framework Plan 2014 to 2019, that is to say, these €13.1 billion. Now I wonder if we have new studies, if we know that there may be the potential for redimensionalization in the Brenner base tunnel, if we actually know that we still have optimising potential in the route management at the Semmering base tunnel, and we may save only 10 percent, how would this money be used in the local transport as it were? So for me, it's really important: The funds are limited, how can we best proceed rationally and rationally? [[Abg. Heinzl: This does not have much to do with public services!]] The second point I would like to address is intermodality. A critical point: You may be familiar with the issue of re-purchasing the Rainjets, but they do not have the possibility of taking them along. The Czech State Railway has ordered at the same time, having taken this into account from the beginning. By having to retrofit now, the taxpayer and the taxpayer have an additional financial burden to be borne by the general public. One essential point – and I believe that we should also pay attention to this, because this fits well with local services – is that overall growth rates in rail passenger transport are very low. This comes from a press release of the VCÖ, which, I think, has a reputation with you. However, there would be a lot to be done in the area of public passenger transport. The example of poverty in mobility can be described very well in the rural region: ‘No railway link, only three bus lines with four stops in total: The Free City of Rust lists Austria's worst publicly accessible district capitals with a clear advantage. It follows Güssing, Waidhofen a. d. Thaya and Oberpuldorf.” According to VCÖ, every third capital city is poorly accessible by train, and only every fourth benefits from many bus lines. The close interplay between transport and spatial planning must finally arrive in the minds and in the planning of coordination processes in Austria and provide the necessary impetus in the context of a comprehensive redesign of the financial balance. So clear text is that we still have a third of the capitals that are not well developed in public transport. If we were to invest, we would have a significant boost in the development of rural regions, which in turn has advantages, even in terms of land sealing, as far as connecting costs are concerned. That would be in the sense of the Republic. As a final word, I would like to lead the former mayor of Bogotá, Colombia, Enrique Peñalosa. I have translated it freely: An advanced city is not recognized as the poor are driving by car, but that even the wealthy are using public transport! - Quote. I think we should take this as an example! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e21418	The next item is the report by Mr Stöger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e21439	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank you for this - and, Madam President, you can give it as an order - that the opposition has said that this is a good report. The population should hear that too! I think that's important. We have, and you have put the right criteria in this report. It has become clear that in Austria we have a public transport, where we are transparent – there you can discuss some sort of parameter – say: Yes, we want a qualified, qualitative transport, a public transport for citizens. And this report shows that we can keep this in the long term. We buy public services where there can be no marketable services of the railway. We are talking about rail transport, and I am very pleased that we are European rail champions in the European Union. We still have a lot to learn from Switzerland. In Switzerland there is a good rail connection, but they have less services in bus transport. If you take the bus with us, we can also keep up with Switzerland. Overall, it has become clear that public transport has been strengthened by orders from the public sector, and I am even more pleased that the population has also adopted it – and that is the decisive thing. The criteria that we set out and which we also control are the content of the transport service contracts, the scope of services. We are discussing whether there is an overcompensation, we have a very clear performance control, we only pay the benefits if they are actually provided, and the report also shows how we deal with quality management. It is about working customer-oriented, and the transport companies have to work customer-oriented, and they also work like that. - Thank you for that. The aim is to implement a cycle roadmap. Mr Deimek, the VCÖ is testing the subjective criteria, which represent a total of 30 percent, 70 percent of the criteria are objective, which can also be understood, such as punctuality. I am pleased that in 2013, every Austrian, every Austrian, has driven 1 425 kilometers of train. It could be a little more, but we are at the forefront in Europe, and we have ordered 77 million kilometres of road map by the federal government. I am also interested in the transport of goods, where we are European champions, where we are also better than Switzerland. We have a high share of freight on the rail, and this leads to us having a safe transport. We know transports on the rail are 64 times safer than on the road. This means that we are doing the same thing when it comes to dangerous goods. I still need to point out that traffic cannot be counted against each other. For some, there is a bit of a long-distance transport, which is a different regional transport. If I drive from Vienna to Salzburg and there's someone in Wels going to Attnang-Puchheim, that's for me long-distance traffic and for those in Wel's local transport. So it's not always the same. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hoefinger.]] In my view, what is also important to make clear is that public transport is also strengthened by investment in long-distance transport. Let me give you an example: There are as many people living on the west line as on the southern route, Vienna to Salzburg are as many as Vienna to Villach. However, because we have a better transport link, we have four times as much public transport. I say, therefore, that it is also necessary to invest in other railways. We'll do that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We will do so, and I thank all the modes of transport that contribute to providing good public transport. I think that this report also shows the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e21502	The next item is the speech by Mr Hell. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e21524	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Federal Minister, not only the opposition-savings say that the report presented is a good report, but also the government groups. We are proud of this report because it shows that the path has been properly taken. [[Abg. Heinzl: That's the way it is!]] We live in a time when mobility plays an increasingly important role, the transport of people and goods becomes a huge challenge in the future. In this context, particular attention should be paid to social policy, environmental and financial factors. If we have this joint economic performance report before us today, we are talking about a basic offer which is supported by public authorities in the transport of passengers and goods. For the purpose of ensuring Austrian mobility in rail passenger transport, a total of 71 million miles of trains were ordered from the Austrian Federal Railways and 6 million from private railways, which are also paid for. The basic offer is about 75 percent of the total train kilometres in Austria. For the public services, there is a multi-annual order framework, which, I believe, is also important for railway undertakings. This report contains a list of the scope of services completed with the ÖBB and the private railways. A quality management was also implemented with the Transport Services Contract. The aim is to increase the quality of the services ordered. Mr Deimek has already referred to it: Timeliness in local and long-distance transport, cleanliness, free of damage, passenger information and complaint management are key factors here. In addition, the safety, the train staff and the seating offer are included. An incentive system has also been introduced, this so-called bonus malus system, where supplements or discounts are given for certain benefits. If you talk about quality controls, there is an evaluator who can best say whether the quality fits or not, those are the travellers. I am pleased that this report states that we have already reached a very high level in Austria and that customer satisfaction and passenger numbers continue to rise. The subject of freight transport has already been addressed. It is also important to provide the appropriate financial resources from the Federal Government. 93.3 million €, of which 16 million in private railways, were used and awarded here. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, the 2013 Joint Economic Performance Report shows that we are on the right track in Austria. Improvements are possible, and we will, together with the railway companies, try to work on them.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e21560	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e21582	Madam President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Yes, 765 million € they have cost, the public service, in 2013. The majority went to ÖBB, 620 million for passenger transport and around 78 million for freight transport. However, the general economic benefits account for only 16 percent of the total state benefit for the ÖBB. A total of €4.8 billion was spent on the ÖBB in 2013. [[Abg. Heinzl: For infrastructure, Mr. Collegue! Let's stay right!]] Also for the infrastructure. [[Abg. Heinzl: Yes, then we are right!]] If one looks closely at the evolution of the public service, it is obvious that there has been a steady increase in recent years, although the number of ordered train kilometres has remained almost the same or has fallen. The reason for this is a contractually fixed value assurance, which lies above the valorization according to the consumer price index. From my point of view, good for the company, less good for the taxpayer. If you are looking at such public expenditure, you naturally wonder about the benefits. Clearly, public transport is in most cases not economically profitable. Of course, public funds are necessary and also useful to maintain them. Also mentioned: It is important that we increase freight traffic. There are also, of course, public funds for this, which is of course also useful. It is of course also important to make public transport more attractive, as already mentioned. I am thinking of cross-road transport information or cross-company tickets. Yes, of course, public services must be paid, and it must be clear that all providers are treated equally. I have already spoken about attractive public transport. Unfortunately, the Linz–Graz and Graz–Linz routes are less attractive from the time of travel. It is noteworthy to me that young Upper Austrians who are studying in Graz made a virtue out of this need years ago and have built up a co-drive network, a co-drive network that is flexible for the users who use individual traffic with all the resources that are attractive from the time and also works excellently. Ladies and gentlemen! In my view, such transport networks could be an answer to the lack of mobility, where public transport does not work or can not work, especially in rural areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e21632	Next item is the report by Mrs Mag. Brunner. Four minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e21653	Madam President. Mr Verkehrsminister! Ladies and gentlemen, We are discussing the Common Economic Performance Report. Thank you both for the report. [[towards President Bures and Federal Minister Stöger]] This report deals with services provided by railway undertakings that finance the public sector. And I think that railway companies, rail transport and public transport as a whole should become at all a massive and also a greater public interest. We experience discussions about climate change. We experience alarm reports that CO2 concentrations are rising, that CO2 emissions have also increased in Austria. Transport in particular has a large share of it and is the main problem among the causes of climate change. In Austria there has recently been a report, according to which Austria will also be heavily affected by the consequences of climate change. Elsewhere in the world it looks Even worse, so I think it can only be the duty of the hour to finally attack the transport system, to relocate the transport system and to reduce traffic, but also to invest massively in public transport and to allow people – as the previous speaker mentioned – to increasingly change to public transport, especially in rural regions. This means well-developed transport systems, good supply of connections, high-quality connections, so it is also attractive to use this offer. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Federal Minister! You're new in office. I would also like to tell you that it is not enough to make a commitment to invest a little bit, but at the same time to invest in counterproductive measures. There are a number of motorway projects across Austria. First of all, we should consider whether we can afford them financially. I don't think so. But from a climate perspective, we cannot afford these projects at all. These projects are counterproductive, and we should use these resources and efforts to re-route and re-route the transport system. It is also about taxes, even here we need more ecological components, especially to achieve steering effects in order to create incentives in the transport sector to allow people to drive publicly and not to drive by car. I come from a region where you have to drive: from the southern Burgenland. I know what that means. That's not just funny. I think it is more pleasant for people and also means an increase in their quality of life if you can switch to public transport. You will not be able to drive by rail in any village, but I believe that we can free many people from the cost of transport and from the burden of transport if we make a better offer available. I would like to give this to you, Minister. This is an important task for the citizens of the country, but above all for climate protection. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e21710	The next item is the speech by Mr Buchmayr. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e21732	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! The 2013 General Economic Performance Report, to which I would also like to congratulate very warmly – although I am not of the opposition, but I have rarely seen such a detailed report – shows very clearly how, under strongly changed conditions in recent years in public transport, both in passenger transport and in freight transport, a very positive development in transport services is possible. An important contribution to this is the integrated cycle roadmap, which has already been addressed several times, whose implementation would, of course, have been widely desired. The report notes that, according to budgetary possibilities, an increase of 10 percent is envisaged in the coming years. In particular, efforts to attract public transport and make it even more customer-friendly should be highlighted. These include improved Austrian-wide and cross-road transport information and the simplification of the acquisition of cross-company tickets on mobile devices and on the Internet. In total, there has been a marked increase in the number of passengers in the train sector. The transport of goods, operated by Rail Cargo Austria, remained stable at a very high level in relation to other European countries. In the future, there may be a positive influence here that very large industrial enterprises will also be subject to environmental audits for competition reasons and that the mass flows will also play a role here. I would also like to express great praise to BMVIT for that part of the 2013 Joint Economic Performance Report, which is dedicated to international cooperation between regulatory authorities in the EU area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e21771	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Aubauer. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e21792	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! What do we all want as citizens in everyday life? We want to make sure we want to get from A to B on time. This is not so easy for some. Some people fail in barriers. This can only be a few steps in a train station, and they can't reach the train – it's out with mobility. This applies to young parents with prams, but this also applies to disabled persons, and of course this also applies to seniors to a large extent. As we know, more and more people in Austria are older and older. They want to be mobile, and that is why it is absolutely necessary to create a Senior Transport System. To be mobile, this is so especially necessary for the elderly in order not to unite in order to be able to participate in social life as well. Minister! I am delighted about your change from the Ministry of Health to the Ministry of Transport. You know the problems of people with walking disabilities, and I also know that you see all this very sensitive. In recent years there has been a great deal of success. However, there are also further development plans for the railway stations in the direction of barrier-free, and there is the Gretchen question: Will it be saved here or will it continue to be extended without barriers? Mr Minister, you said it in committee. Nice! We will demand this again and again and see it as absolutely necessary. But, of course, it takes a whole bunch of measures for older people if we want to ensure that they can be mobile. Just one point from it: It was also saved from the staff at the ÖBB – absolutely necessary and also important, but especially older people might need a contact person at the station, namely one from meat and blood, and not just machines. So please take this into consideration. Mr Minister, we are looking forward to further cooperation in the interests of all people and especially our older people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e21833	Mrs Hakel is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e21854	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have now heard a lot about the Common Economic Performance Report. I want to take a look at the future. I'm as Of course, social democrats are particularly important for the promotion of railway companies to lead to a level playing field for passengers. On the other hand, it is equally important to me to prevent competitive tenders from leading to social dumping. So: We want to get away from the cheapest bidder principle to the best bidder principle. In other words, in the future price criteria, quality criteria and social criteria must also be defined as award criteria for federal states and transport associations. And: In the future, if a change of operator is to occur through calls for tender, the competent authority must require the new operator to make a binding offer to existing workers to employ them at least on the previous working and remuneration conditions. Each employee can then voluntarily decide whether to accept this offer or to change the employer. Which quality criteria do I refer to? For example, there is a need for proof of local knowledge and ability to provide information on tariffs and traffic connections and, of course, regular training. Or, another quality criterion: a certificate of competence of the staff employed in dealing with dangerous situations, keyword of violent de-escalation or first aid, but also for snow-chaining capabilities and similar more. The equipment of the vehicles, i.e. accessibility, info screens and the like, is also a quality criterion. Or: The social criteria include the working and pay conditions of public transport workers, such as to mention just a few keywords, the quality, number and equipment of social and sanitary areas, the proportion of women, the promotion of women, the professional experience and so on, as well as social benefits that go beyond the minimum legal or collective contractual level. Good employment conditions are clearly important conditions for quality transport services. As mentioned at the outset, we want to get away from the low-cost bidder principle to the best bidder principle.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e21896	Mr Rädler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e21918	Madam President. Federal Minister! The report on public services contains a lot of praise, including right. There are increases in freight transport, 270 million passengers on the Austrian Federal Railways. [[Abg. Hoefinger: Man is a living lexicon!]] The economic location and the tourism sector, of course, contribute to this, but the essential prerequisites for this are in the infrastructure. However, the praise for these achievements, I would say, is due to you, Madam President, to the 2013 performance report. But now on those points which have already been raised, namely the calls for proposals which are currently under discussion, towards the principle of the best bidder. I believe that this is necessary not only in the field of public service, but in all areas of the Federal Railways. I can only confirm this as mayor. We have already addressed the problem in the last committee, Mr Federal Minister, namely the railway crossing regulation. This is currently the case with the Administrative Court after the ÖBB has filed recession after the consultation mechanism has not been put into effect here and the participation of the municipalities and the countries has thus been suspended. That's why it's important to us: We pay 50 percent of the services in the construction of security facilities. Now we have the problem that citizens' initiatives form, that mayors stand on their feet and say, we no longer accept that at night, from 9 p.m. to 3 p.m., pipe signals lead to noise pollution to our inhabitants, pipe signals that are sometimes unauthorized. There are examples where in the case of barriers secured with chains, because they are not public transitions, for example, a forest path, is nevertheless pruned by the respective train leader, because he probably thinks I prefer to make sure. That's where we need new, modern security systems. These new, modern security systems cost money. The municipalities do not have a party position in the process, but have to pay 50 percent. That's a change. So I'm curious about what's going to happen at the administrative court. But I would ask you, Minister of State, that you also make an understanding of this. There is a target, that is to say, one will extend these safeguards in a certain period of time, and there one speaks from 14 to 15 years. This is just too long for those concerned and also for the communities. I am trying to change this plan and make us think something about it, in technical research, in such security facilities, which are currently costing between €300 000 and €400 000, without transparency for our communities. We do not know if there has been an invitation to tender within the ÖBB or not. That's a long time off. We should not only discuss how we can introduce the best bidder principle, but also how we can achieve more transparency – in the interests of the train travellers, but also of the locals. I believe that noise protection is one of the most important measures for you, Mr Stöger, also because of your past as a health minister. I'm asking you to do this.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e21956	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? – That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Transport Committee to take note of this report III-98 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. [[20:41:19]] 6. Point Report by the Committee on Human Rights on amendment 583/A(E) by Mr Dipl.-Kffr. (FH) Elisabeth Pfurtscheller, Franz Kirchgatterer, colleagues on sexual violence against women (267 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e22009	We're now on the 6th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Dipl.-Kffr spoke. (FH) Pfurtscheller. Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e22041	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Estimated viewers on the screens! As in the recent study presented by the EU Fundamental Rights Agency, "Violence against women across the EU. Abuse at home, work, in public and online, is still a major problem in the EU Member States despite all the measures that have been taken so far. I would like to quote here some of the shocking statements of this study, since I assume that many of you do not know them. 33 percent of women have had 15 years of age. Year of life experience physical and/or sexual violence. This corresponds to about 62 million women in the EU. 62 million! 22 percent of women have experienced physical and/or sexual violence in the partnership. One of 20 women has been since she was 15. ==References====External links== Almost every tenth woman who experienced sexual violence outside the partnership indicated that several perpetrators or women were involved in the serious incident. 43 percent of women were either exposed by the current partner/current partner for psychological violence. 33 percent of women have experienced physical or sexual violence in childhood by an adult or an adult. 12 percent of women were affected by sexual violence in the childhood, which was practiced in half of the cases by foreign men. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== In 5 percent of women, this was the case within the last 12 months before the survey. This means that about 9 million women in the EU are affected by stalking. Many of these women reported that the harassment lasted longer than two years. 11 percent of women have already experienced inappropriate approaches in the new social media or received e-mails or text messages with clearly sexual content. 55 percent of women have experienced some form of sexual harassment. 32 percent of the victims of sexual harassment called perpetrators, colleagues and customers. 67 percent, i.e. two thirds, did not report the most serious violent incidents within a partnership to the police or to any other organization. All of this is a terrible list. In all these acts of violence, the dignity of women and human rights is disregarded. There must be no room for this in the EU. Unfortunately, we in Austria do not live on an island of the Blessed, as far as violence is concerned, but we have been working hard for years to improve the protection of women and girls. Austria has many initiatives in this area that have proved to be successful both in terms of legal bases and in practice. ==References== The National Action Plan on the Protection of Women from Violence, which is to be implemented by the Federal Government between 2014 and 2016, was adopted in August 2016. Austria thus has a pioneering role on this issue and has developed an extensive expertise, which is also internationally recognised. The Presidency of the European Union, chaired by Mrs Federica Mogherini, has undertaken to adopt this issue more strongly. This was also discussed at the Informal Council of Justice and Interior Ministers in Milan in July. I am Convinced that an exchange of best practices can be helpful at EU level and it is important that we bring in our priorities, our Austrian priorities prevention, i.e. crime work, victim protection and networking of all stakeholders. It would be nice if a platform for protecting women and girls from violence could be created at EU level. The aim of our proposal is therefore to call on the Federal Government to push forward international efforts and bring in our experience. I am very glad that this request has received broad support from the Committee. Please allow me to make a little in-depth swirl on my current occasion and because it is really a personal need for me, which unfortunately also deals with violence. But I am now concerned with the refugees and asylumists who are currently arriving in Austria. They too were and are threatened with violence. As a human rights spokesperson of the ÖVP, I feel very attached to the Christian-Social image, and I would therefore like to use my remaining speaking time to ask you all here in the hall and the Austrians in front of the screens and to call on them to open their hearts to those people who are looking for protection and support in Austria – thank you! – because the accommodation of these people is an aspect, but the much more important aspect, as I believe, is that we meet these poor, traumatized people openly and appreciatively and try to help them overcome their terrible experiences. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of SPÖ and Greens]] I am well aware – I am not a social romanticist – that there are many different aspects to be taken into account in the housing of people, we can currently read and see a lot about this in the media, and in the course of today also a part of the debate on this issue has to be held, but one thing is quite clear: As one of the richest countries in Europe, we are economically capable of absorbing and providing for these people. I am convinced that all of us here in Austria can vote together on this challenge in human terms, even if we are all addressing the solution with a positive attitude. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e22121	I welcome Mr Brandstetter's Minister of Justice and give the floor to Mr Kirchgatterer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e22143	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! For us Socialists and Socialists, the commitment to safeguarding and safeguarding human rights is an important pillar of our policy. Yesterday, German Chancellor Werner Faymannand today morning Klubobmann Andreas Schieder illuminated the human rights situation, the human rights situation in Syria and Ukraine. The Human Rights Committee submitted applications for human rights in the first half of this year in particular. We want the companies, the suppliers of companies not with child labour, not to produce health-damaging working conditions. Today's theme in the Human Rights Committee is the fight against sexual violence against women. I would like to begin by stressing the very valuable work done by those who give assistance, support, protection and security to victims of violence: All the federal territory. Thanks to those who have created and developed these aid facilities and who are working with great personal attention today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Similarly, prevention work is necessary to stop violence against women. In Austria, the National Action Plan on Human Rights is based on a broad framework and is very important and crucial in prevention work. Ladies and gentlemen! Fighting violence against women is a major task in all EU countries and in all countries represented in the Council of Europe, an often underestimated and urgent task. The results of the studies in the individual European countries have already been mentioned. They're terrifying, yes, they're shocking. Therefore, the relevant agreements, the Council of Europe agreements, and the EU's commitment, are so important – so important for those who want to focus on the experiences of the aid institutions, for those who face the dangers of the new media, for those who are looking for improvements, to work towards improvements. Summary: We want to promote awareness-raising in Europe and to contribute effectively to the fight against sexual violence on women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e22200	Mrs Gartelgruber is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e22221	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If we are discussing this proposal against sexual violence against women today, I should like to begin by saying that we reject any kind of violence and that any kind of violence must be vehemently opposed. There is every effort to support and pursue any initiative. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you imagine that almost every fourth woman has become victims of violence at least once in her life, that is not tolerable. There's a lot to do. The awareness of this problem, in particular, still shows a great need for action. The fact is that violence is still taboo in many parts of our society, especially because violence usually takes place within its own four walls and children are also affected. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Whatever moves me very much, besides physical violence, the aspect of mental violence is increasing. These emotional damage and injuries leave serious traces for those affected, but unfortunately no visible scars. As a result, the people concerned are always in a situation where they have to prove the state of being threatened, and women have to be encouraged to break this silence in this situation. In this context, however, I do not want to mention the fact that traditional violence of some cultures has also taken place in us and that we still have far too little vehement against it. It is not tolerable that in Austria there are still forced marriages, circumcisions and even homicides. On the other hand, we really have to act very vehemently, and we must not look away. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am particularly irritated by the condition that we stand up for women's rights, but under the cover of Islamization, the Patriarch is returning to Austria over the back door. And that just can't be. In my opinion, however, the issue of violence and violence against women is also a bigger one. This proposal, which we, of course, also support, needs to be discussed much more widely. He's not going far enough. I believe that we must also include children, young people and the disabled. In this context too, international exchanges would be necessary and important. That is why we will also make a request in this regard, and I would like to ask you, as we support the debate now, to agree to this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e22276	Mrs Mag. Mag. has spoken. Korun. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e22297	Madam President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, We discussed four requests in the last human rights committee. Today we have only one more request, and not quite by chance those three requests, which were postponed by the majority of the votes in the committee, were opposition requests. We have discussed, among other things, a Green proposal aimed at improving the detection of victims of torture in the asylum process. Because there was also talk of vulnerable people, of vulnerable asylum seekers/asyl women in need, it is all the less understandable why such a request is postponed, as Parliamentary experience unfortunately shows, often on the Sankt-Nimmerleins day. There are also two opposition requests on the subject of fundamental rights protection in the Schubhaftzentrum Forderenberg, which was partially privatized, available: a request from us, from the Greens, a request from the colleagues of NEOS. These applications were also postponed. Unfortunately, we cannot, at least not in detail, discuss these postponed issues. However, it is my concern because this delay practice is constantly operated by the government factions, which should be stressed here again. [[Congratulation with greens and NEOS.]] We will, of course, agree with the request made by the government in relation to the fight against sexual violence against women. We have all been following the very dramatic cases for several years, but in recent years, especially the following: Group rapes in India. We remember the case of the young medical student who died a year ago of her injuries after such a particularly brutal and incredibly cruel group rape. We remember the abduction of 200 students a few months ago, of young girls, by the so-called Boko Haram, also a terrorist group. It was said that these girls are being sold and enslaved. At present, we are dealing with the cruel phenomenon of women's drag-offs by the terrorist organisation IS. For example, at least 1,000 Jewish women have been dragged away, and rapes are also deliberately used as a war weapon against women and against yezids, against Kurds, against Christians, against different minorities. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is also very necessary that this request be made. International efforts are needed in this area. I also support those who have clearly stated that Austrian expertise in this area should lead to enhanced cooperation. However, as the last point, I do not want to mention that sexual violence against women – even though it is God’s thanks to us such conditions as in Nigeria or in Iraq, in Syria, there is not – even with us in Austria is a topic. Here, too, rapes happen, even here sexual violence happens. It would therefore be necessary to invest more in Burschen work, also in perpetrator work, to support more programmes and finally to implement an independent right of residence for migrants, so that migrants are not dependent on their husbands, so that the state does not make them dependent on their husbands by law. So there is still a lot to do with us, and of course there is also a need for more international cooperation to combat sexual violence against women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e22357	Mr Hagen is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e22379	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Yes, we too from the STRONACH team speak out quite clearly against violence against women. Even if I would like to address the request now, I would like to repeat something that has already been mentioned by two previous speakers: The request is held so widely, a statement of intent, and – Mrs Korun has already mentioned this – that is to say, to have done something, but it is not fish and not meat. [[Abg. Mr Yılmaz: We take it very seriously, Mr President.]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that only with the proposal has not done much. That's where I have to give my predecessors the right way. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There is also violence against children, there is violence against men, and there is, of course, already a bit of a monotonous application on violence against women. I don't want to forget our most vulnerable children. Do you remember the situation of the little Cain in Vorarlberg or that of Luca? Ladies and gentlemen, what happened then? Although we have made certain changes to the law, it is already on the minds of the persons acting, and of course this is the most important point. I think it is very, very important to achieve a rethink in the minds. As a police officer, who always comes into contact with the fact of violence against women, children, but also with men, I would like to remind you of a statement by Mahatma Gandhi, which we should always bear in our conscience: ‘Government is the weapon of the weak one’. We should be aware of this, ladies and gentlemen, and in this respect we should raise awareness in all areas. The right thing about this proposal is to hear it extended, as Mr Gartelgruber has already mentioned. We should not forget our weakest, our children. That would be desirable from my point of view. But of course we will also support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e22416	The next item is the speech by Mr Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e22438	Mr President. Mr. Minister! The application contains only “sexual violence against women. ” It is very important that the application is intensively interdependent with other forms of violence. He's in the And I believe that it is incredibly important that we place a clear sign here and also give the government the mandate that it should deal with this issue even more at European level and that it should also expressly bring in the expertise we have. In the Istanbul Convention, we have practically the first European Treaty to deal specifically with violence against women and set the minimum standards for prevention and protection. If you look at the various statistics and the results of the study of the European Fundamental Rights Agency – we have already had it – this is more than shocking. We have already heard the numbers in part. The number that has shaken me the most is that about 12 percent of women indicate that they have some form of sexual abuse before their 15. ==References== This is something that is absolutely impossible to tolerate, where we should do quite a lot of things about it. That is why I think it is very good for us here to call on the government to make even more progress at European level. However, many other issues have also been very important – Mrs Korun has already mentioned them – which we discussed in the Committee on Human Rights, although very briefly. Once again, the government parties have taken a very negative stand, with their reluctance practice. I do not get tired of speaking each time about those requests that have been postponed because they concern very important human rights problems that we have in Austria. Firstly, Mr Korun's request for the recognition of victims of torture should be mentioned. That is why public servants should be better trained to recognise victims of torture, so that they can recognise traumatisation and thus make it possible to carry out an asylum process useful, because it is very, very difficult to recognize it. This request has been postponed. A problem in this regard is what we do very often, namely that we are entering into international commitments – that is, a UN agreement – and do not comply with them. This is also the case with the Convention on Children's Rights: We close them, but then we do not implement them accordingly in Austria. We also have a massive fundamental rights problem in the case of public protection applications for outsourcing of security tasks to private individuals, because there is no such fundamental legal protection when private fundamental rights violations are committed. It doesn't work. And then, in committee, Mrs Fekter, who unfortunately is not present, says: Well, there's a legal protection anyway, he's there anyway; Civil law, criminal law, everything is there. – There is, however, an essential difference between a civil law approach to suing someone and criminal law and a fundamental public law protection. This is what she meant, no, the Federal Ministry of the Interior says there is a protection of fundamental public rights. Now, however, there are very many well-known constitutional experts who say that this is not possible. And if you look at the argument of the Federal Ministry of the Interior, why the Ministry of the Interior believes that fundamental rights are given, this is of course also very exciting: They refer to a VwGH knowledge, which is cited as an example: while maintaining sufficient medical care. The two applications, however, are a general problem and not just an example. In the same way, Mr Kneih's essay is cited, which is also about something else, namely rescuers who are explicit after accommodation. Act as an administrative assistant to the police. That means it's about something else again. But that is the only way the Ministry of the Interior is based on its statement that we already have an effective fundamental rights protection. The only problem is that this one is not given. And when I said in committee, in the People's Procuratorate's report, it is also criticised that he has not been given, Mrs Gessl-Ranftl said that all recommendations will be implemented by the municipality of Vorsenberg anyway. The problem is only, the municipality of Vorsenberg cannot make federal legislation and it cannot introduce fundamental rights. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gessl-Ranftl.]] Yeah, that's possible. But he can't do any fundamental rights protection, Mrs Colleague! I can't. The community has no competence when it comes to these laws. The problem on the whole is: We are discussing human rights problems here, and it is always the same. This simply reflects how the government parties deal with this issue, namely, it is not at all good. If we are discussing specific human rights problems in Austria, they are either blind or deaf and simply do not want to say anything on this issue.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e22513	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e22534	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Scherak, I find it quite unfrozen that you are producing here and saying that the government groups are not taking human rights seriously because they are not willing to deal with it. That's immense what you're saying. Just because your request did not find a majority, you say that human rights are not important to us. I reject that categorically, and that's not all right for you to address this. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Now we can discuss why the request has not yet been accepted or postponed, but the issue we are dealing with here in the current proposal, which was tabled by the government groups and in which violence against women and also domestic violence – against children and others – is such a serious one that it is worth a broad discussion and serious discussion here. Much progress has already been made, but the problem is still a huge one. And the problem is not only one for the victims, but also one for the families, for the acquaintances, for the whole society; and it is not an Austrian but a European and international one. To this end, it is to be welcomed that the designed Commissioner for Foreign Affairs Mogherini says that she wants to accept the issue of violence against women – I say it deliberately as a man – because it still needs a solution. The study, already mentioned here by Mr Pfurtscheller – other speakers have also mentioned it – clearly states, and that is the particular thing in the study that not only adult women have been examined here, but also women give information about how they have already experienced in childhood. So it is a very comprehensive study, and the result of the evaluation is very bad, because at least one third of the women surveyed say, yes, they have already been victims of violence, and many of them already in childhood. And this is not only about physical, sexual violence, but also about mental violence. It is therefore necessary to be rigorous against these things, to appear in conspicuousness and to act supranationally. It's not just domestic violence, it's about new forms of violence, right up to cybermobbing, that is, the online harassment of women. That means, that's a big topic. On the basis of the UN Convention, which has adopted this issue, the Council of Europe has made an agreement, and Austria was one of the first States to sign this Convention. And with this – that should not be self-fearing now – we are always ahead of this. It has been found in the Committee that we can show a lot to the European Member States in particular what is important. Nevertheless, we do not rest, which is implied by the establishment of a national action plan to protect women from violence. An interministerial working group has been set up in which a large number of people are involved. What is needed was networking between the actors, the courts, hospitals, the women's homes, the prosecutor's office. Victim protection is very important – entry bans not only for apartments, but also for schools or kindergartens. On the basis of the number of bans, it can be seen that they are effective, because in 2003, there were some 4,000 bans, and in 2013, there were 7 800. That means that we are going to proceed consistently here, which is to be welcomed. In conclusion: Unfortunately, there are, in particular, brutal forms of violence against women. We have already discussed jihadist terror today. In Syria and Iraq, however, women are also sold on international slave markets – also a very brutal and bad form of violence. That is why we must act together, across all levels of society, against this violence against women and, of course, against domestic violence, because looking away is a part of the problem and not the solution. One has to face this problem offensively. Let's put a sign against this violence! We must and we want to give our women and children security. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e22577	The next item is Mrs Yilmaz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e22598	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The family is the germ cell of society – this statement is used very often, and that is true – and the family is also a germ cell for comfort, love, but also violence. We have already heard of the fact that women are most exposed to violence in their social environment and in the family. Austria has been known since the 1990s to protect women and children, and since then there have been continuous measures, both legal and preventive, which are being expanded, to be re-adjusted – advisory bodies and the like. Under black and blue it was not really important to continue working here as well. [[Abg. Kitzmüller: That's a mess!]] – This is not an impotence, Mrs. Colleague. As most of the advisory services have been closed, they have no longer received support. Victim protection was not a subject. I am very glad that for this Federal Government the protection of victims from violence is really a major issue. I would also like to thank the Federal Government, in particular our female wife, for the state of the National Action Plan for the Protection of Women from Violence. A working group – the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Youth, the Ministry of Integration, the Ministry of Health and Health – has been set up here. Then there was a round table with representatives of civil society, in particular victim protection facilities. This work programme is firmly established, and it is a very, very good one, so that this protection is even better worked and that all women and children can be protected from violence. A warm thanks to all those who have worked on it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e22635	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Darmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e22656	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Violence against women is just as huge as it is. And I do not need the studies at the beginning of this debate, which I have also expressed internally now, to do so with 30 different figures. For years, as an attentive politician, we have been observing the media landscape, tracking reports from home and abroad, and not only as a politician, but only as a feeling and compassionate person, we must have noticed this fact. That is why I am not entirely with Mr Scherak of the NEOS, who said that it is good that there is this request to the Federal Government that there should be such initiatives. I think – and I am speaking now also for my group, the FPÖ – that it would have been much better, that there would have been a self-initiative of our Federal Government at European level and that it would not be necessary to give a clear signal here – fortunately, cross-party – with a unanimous support of this very important proposal in the fight against violence against women. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] - That's the one side. In the human rights committee last week, I held down in my statement – and this concern, which I gave to the Federal Minister for Internal Affairs last week, I would also like to stress here – that this initiative in the fight against violence against women should not be seen as so closely formulated and taken as an order, but also to take account of violence against children, sexual violence against children, violence against children, violence against young people, violence against young people, violence and sexual violence against men, which should also exist. This issue should be given some value at European level, and these measures and initiatives should be discussed in an exchange of views and with – unfortunately! – in recent years in Austria, the expertise of politics, the legislator and also of the relevant bodies responsible for taking preventive action in this area has also been carried out in other European countries and in the European Union. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is also, of course, also important to give this protection to another group in our society and also to advance this exchange of views at European level, in order to counteract violence in all its forms and sexual violence towards the disadvantaged people of our own country and also to take up this fight. For this reason, as a FPÖ Parliamentary Club, we have now made a request to the Minister of the Interior for my formless request. The aim of these important initiatives in the fight against violence, sexual violence, all forms of violence against women is to see this fight as a fight against violence against children, young people, people and men and to extend it. I would also like to ask you that, following the correct submission of this request, not only as a Member of Parliament, but also as a person we live with our eyes open and we also have to take up and take note of these shocking facts every day, what is happening in Austria and beyond the borders of the country, all together give a clear signal that this request will receive our support. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I should therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I repeat my heartfelt request to all of you, ladies and gentlemen, also to give this request the support and the appropriate appreciation in the interests of the people concerned in order to hopefully prevent cases of violence in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e22751	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Darmann is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e22824	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Aslan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e22845	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators in front of the screens at home! Many of you probably do not even know that in the Austrian Parliament there is a Kurdish Tyrolean. Until now, much has been said about the “people without lawyers” about Kurds and Kurds – also by my previous speakers. De facto was never really spoken to them. Now I want to convey an important message to you and to you not only as members of this people's group, which is almost exterminated, but as a woman, as a human being. Over a thousand women and girls – Kurdish, Jesidic, Christian, Turkmen – were kidnapped, enslaved, raped by the IS. These delayed war victims were then sold for $5,000. Now, of course, you're wondering: Is IS going to create a new source of income through this trade in women? Cases are also known that women and girls take their lives in order not to be raped or dragged away. Not to mention here would be a political scandal, I think. A systematic mass rape pursues the intention of creating an atmosphere of terror, an atmosphere of fear, and that does the IS. What do we have the UN Women's Rights Convention for? What do we have the Istanbul Convention for? For what do we have a national action plan in which the protection of women – not only nationally but also internationally – is defined? Foreign Minister, dear EU, dear UN, please prevent this destruction of human dignity and stop this brutality! Please check or let which neighbouring countries of Syria and Iraq tolerate this trafficking in women, this crime against humanity, and do not take countermeasures! Please create secure accommodation for women and girls affected by violence and ensure that they are also treated psychologically! Please ensure that a crisis staff is formed that explicitly cares for the abducted women and girls, and explore where they are towed! Please be courageous and fight with me, with us for women and human rights! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e22891	The next item is Mrs Gessl-Ranftl's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e22912	Mr President. Minister! High house! Mrs Aslan, I am very impressed by your speech. Thank you. Violence against women takes place daily and in all contexts. There is also violence against women today, in the 21st century. ==References====External links==* Official website But violence against women has many faces. For me, it is important to address these many facets precisely in this context. This begins with financial dependence, in the treatment of inequality in the working world and goes through insults and insults to domestic violence. For many women, the most dangerous place is their own four walls, where violence is extremely widespread. According to statistics, in any case more than 90 percent of the perpetrators are not strangers in dark parks or on empty streets, but the husband, the friend, or even their own father. Physical as well as sexual and psychological violence against women is and remains a massive human rights abuse. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But it is up to all of us to break through this spiral of violence. I would like to stress positively that we already have a very good law on protection against violence in Austria. I am speaking here of the direction, the bans on intervention, the involvement of anti-violence centres in support of the victims of violence and also the anti-talking law. Nevertheless – and we are all aware of this – it is important to evaluate these laws continuously and to develop them further if necessary. In this context – and we have already heard this today – it is very welcome that on 26 May, it was The Council of Ministers of the National Action Plan adopted 64 measures in August. We are all required because the figures are alarming and show the importance of improved and effective protection of violence in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e22961	Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e22983	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) On the proposal that we are going to decide today, a lot has already been said about the study on which this request is based, and many figures have already been mentioned which have brought this study to light, shocking figures on violence against women. I would like to add a number to this: Two thirds of all women affected by violence do not report this, either to the police or to an advisory body. Once again, when you see this, you know that sexual violence against women, mental and physical violence, is still a multiple issue. It's over here. One should keep in mind at the time of the debate how big this problem is international. This was also mentioned by you, Mrs Aslan, quite dramatically, which has touched us - or at least me - very much. In Austria too, as we know, there is violence in the family, and it occurs very often, in various forms. It has already been mentioned what forms of violence there are. I think there are a few points that you must pay particular attention to, for example, prevention, which has already been mentioned today. Since I think it is very important to shape, train, accompany and teach strong girls and strong boys in schools, that there are other mechanisms of conflict resolution than violence. There are always problems, but you should not solve them by force. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I also think it is very important – that has already been mentioned today – to work with the perpetrators. I'm convinced that if you don't work with the perpetrators, people will often remain perpetrators for whatever reason, perhaps because they haven't learned to articulate differently. That is why the work of the perpetrator is very important, and we need to pay much more attention to this issue in the next few years in the field of violence prevention. I'm really convinced of that. I would have much to say, but unfortunately I only have two minutes, so I would like to end by mentioning that I support the FPÖ initiative in general to extend this request to violence, no matter who, and that, as far as I am now properly informed, we will also agree. [[Demonstrative applause at the FPÖ.]] I think it is a human right to be protected from violence, because violence is a serious violation of human rights.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e23046	Next speaker: Mr Buchmayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e23067	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! On this motion for a resolution on sexual violence against women, I would like to address the structure of the centres of violence in Austria. It is, as is known, a centre of violence in every federal state, which is the first point of contact for victims of violence in the family or in the social area. This is particularly true of violence against women, such as partnership, violence against children, but also sexualised violence. Decentralized contact point in Austria is usually the so-called women's houses. In 1987, the Committee on Women's Rights in the European Parliament recommended the establishment of a place in the women's house per 10,000 inhabitants. There are 759 places in women's houses in Austria; 837 places should actually be in accordance with this EU Directive. The need for these facilities proves the constant utilization of women's homes, but also some other figures. In 2013 alone, there were 2,008 violence-affected or threatened persons in Upper Austria, including 1,739 women. Similarly, in 2013 in Upper Austria, there were 1 073 directions executed by security authorities or bans on entry. These figures show that violence against women is also not a marginal issue in our society, and I therefore fully support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e23110	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall vote on the resolution on sexual violence against women attached to the Committee's report 267 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This has been adopted unanimously. (E 41.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Darmann, colleagues and colleagues on sexual violence. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign. – This is also unanimously adopted. (E 42.) [[21:32:57]] 7. Point First reading: Request from Members Dr. Nikolaus Scherak, colleagues on a federal law amending the General Civil Code (498/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e23168	We're now on the 7th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e23195	Thank you very much, Mr President. . I have for longer considered whether we should ask for a first reading on whether it should be carried out, but I soon became aware that this is still very, very necessary in Austria, because there are still people in Austria who believe that if one is committed to equality and equal treatment of homosexuals, one should listen to a so-called homosexual lobby. What Mr Gudenus did in Moscow, and what fears he feared, which evil powers were there at work, which would try to undermine the European Union with its homosexual lobby, that was such a shame that I did not really know how to deal with it. This has de facto been seen by all parties – apart from Gudenus – and expressed themselves accordingly. [[Abg. Schönegger: There too!]] The problem is simply that Mr Gudenus does not want to go over time and does not realize that this concerns essential human rights and that we simply abstain from rights of a certain population group. We also see this when we look at the case law of several highest courts in recent years, because it is always the case that Supreme Courts must be repealed because there are in these laws unequal treatment and obvious discrimination. It has begun with the question – but this is not the highest court in this case – of the registered partnership, where it has been a question of where one can justify this single partnership. – Luckily, there will be a change, so that will be possible in the future also at the office. Then there was one thing that is also very exciting – not yet a highly judicial decision – namely, the one with regard to surnames. Invented partnerships have only one surname in Austria and may not have a surname. There you have chosen a conscious discrimination so that you can see clearly – based on the registration note you can understand this well – that is the last name, but not the last name. And all of this, although the European Court of Human Rights has long said that homosexuals also have a right to family life, which he has not seen before, but he has done it anyway. Furthermore, there was this famous thing with the dash in the double name of registered partnerships. This is not originally provided for in the law, so that it is also clear that it is a registered partnership. – Luckily, the Constitutional Court in Austria has taken this up and said that is discriminatory, that is not possible. We have also needed the Constitutional Court to make it clear that lesbian couples also have the right to seed donation. And we have needed the European Court of Human Rights to find that a stepchild adoption must also be open to homosexual couples. I don't know if you've noticed this. The problem is that for almost all the things that have happened in this area in recent years, the highest courts have been used, because it is obvious in politics that it is not possible to finally go with time and to introduce modern regulations as well. In this sense, I expressly appeal to the representatives of the government parties – I believe that I will not find a hearing at the FPÖ – because we are finally making modern regulations that we open the Institute of Marriage to all people, regardless of what sex they have, and whether they have different sexes.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e23242	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Grossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e23263	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The NEOS request is indeed much to be recovered. § 44 ABGB is no longer contemporary, is discriminatory to couples of equal sex, but also to couples of different sex, who cannot or do not want children: for medical reasons or for reasons of age. It really speaks a lot of that this provision of § 44 ABGB, which is indeed the world picture of early 19. In the 1811th century, the ABGB was born, so that the law of marriage was passed on to the 21st century. ==References====External links== We from the Socialist Group will continue to do our work tirelessly with our coalition partner in order to remove these discriminations. Much has already been done – a few examples have already been listed – with the help of the highest courts, which have, so to speak, been motivating. We will be consistent with the SPÖ – be assured of this – quently working to eliminate all forms of discrimination, and I hope you will help us to do so – I now look at the right side of this House. [[towards ÖVP]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e23306	Next word: Mr Mag. Nice to meet you. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e23327	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Discrimination of people – I am clarifying – can and should not have any place in the Austrian legal system without objective justification, without objective justification, and in 2014 – hopefully we all agree. Whether the NEOS proposal is to eliminate this alleged discrimination or whether this is just an ideologically motivated attack on existing structures, we will have to discuss it in detail, in terms of content and subject matter, without great emotions and without foam. [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: The Constitutional Court...!]] I am personally at the moment – but I am open to results – on the point of view that we have in itself a very practical and good solution with the law concerning registered partnership. But again: We do not, of course, conclude such a debate and look forward to a proper discussion in the Committee on Content.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e23362	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Schrangl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e23383	Dear Mr Schönegger of the ÖVP, the ÖVP family party! I already think that it is factually justified that the historical legislator established 1811 regarding marriage between separate sexual partners – I just tell you – that if possible children should arise from marriage. [[Abg. Schönegger: I never disputed that!]] A state must try... – Yes, you may see it differently from the SPÖ, but it is my opinion, and this too must be heard. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Elisabeth crochet.]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Elisabeth Hakel: It’s about “jumping out ”!]] You can talk later and say that. My opinion is that a state must try to expand and preserve its people, and therefore children must arise from a marriage between separate sexual partners, if possible. Love and sexuality are a private matter and should remain private. We are, of course, in favour of legal equality in inheritance, so that they may inherit each other, when entering lease contracts and so on, but we have done so, although we have, of course, rejected it at the time, in the partnership law. But that's typical: In 2009, the ÖVP said that the introduction of the registered partnership will save us any further discussion. Even then – I have it with you – our Klubobmann Strache and also our Secretary-General Kickl said that this is just a pure salami tactic, the greens will want more and more. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Elisabeth crochet.]] I have believed – and this disillusioned me – that NEOS are a fresh and new party, but it is unfortunately such a thing of old and despondent that it also supports what the eighty-eighties demand, namely the abolition of marriage as the community of the separated sexes. This is really embarrassing, and you see clearly in countries like Vorarlberg that you will lose. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: We want to make marriage even more people possible because it is so great!]] You should learn from the story! A very prominent Federal Chancellor once said: Learn history! – The Liberal Forum has gone down on it, and it will flower to you as well. So I say good-bye to you now. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Cap.]] For us, it is clear – and we know the majority of the population behind us – that marriage is something between divorced sexes, and marriage should, as far as possible – and I wish everyone who enters this covenant for life – also have children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e23498	The last item on the agenda is by Mr Magistrate. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e23520	Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr Schrangl, the historical legislator is only helpful because the historical legislator in 1811 assumed that homosexuality must be punishable and should be banned, and therefore it was quite logical that a definition of marriage refers only to heterosexual relations, because something else was not possible at that time. [[Abg. Schrangl: There we are, thank God, far away!]] Today, we all judge social policy differently, too, because you too do not want to use criminal law against homosexuals, and so, as it were, the historical legislator is no longer a contemporary witness. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Therefore, from my point of view, there is only one conclusion when we say, and hopefully all of us say that homosexuality is nothing objectionable, but everyone should be able to follow his sexuality and his relationship as he wants us to make available to the current legal framework. [[Abg. Schrangl: Yes, but not in marriage!]] And because you've argued a little conservatively – even if he's not from your party family –: I found it exciting what David Cameron said in England: Because I am more conservative, I am not against it, but for the opening of marriage for the same sexes, because it clearly considers marriage to be a conservative value and says that everyone who wants to take responsibility together should find this framework in marriage. [[Abg. Schrangl: I read that!]] I don't think that David Cameron is an eighty-eighter, at least his other political views allow this conclusion to be less, but he has understood what it's all about in the heart of marriage, for those who want to choose this institute, namely... – Whether petty-bourgeois or not, I don't judge on it at all. [[Abg. Schrangl: This is very petty-bourgeois!]] [[Abg. Kogler: Why can't they make the mistake?]] That must be decided by those who want to choose this institute. I also have a wedding ring and don't feel like a petty-bourgeois, but everyone has to be able to choose it individually. And if someone chooses this institute, then he should be able to do it legally, regardless of gender. [[Congratulation and bravorage of the Abg. Kogler]] [[Congratulation with the Greens as well as with representatives of the SPÖ]] And that's what David Cameron, with whom nothing else connects me, understood, and I think you should think about it, too. That the marriage definition is no longer contemporary, I think it can be fixed at many points. It speaks of the marriage definition of inseparability, but we know that 50 percent of marriages are divorced. [[Abg. Schönegger: In the beautiful performance!]] I don't want to evaluate that either – it is. Also what is happening to the child's production: Yes, this is the programmatic goal of marriage, but we know that this is not always in the foreground, and we also know that elderly elderly people are still getting married, and that is also beautiful, but they will still not bear children. [[Abg. Schönegger: But you can formulate ideals!]] We don't deny them marriage. Therefore, I believe that it is up to us to open up the Institute of Marriage and say: It is nice if people want to take responsibility for each other and stand together, and for that we want to offer a modern legal framework, and that can be the marriage. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e23654	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with request 498/A to the Committee on Justice. [[21:46:25]] 8. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Dr. Wolfgang Zinggl, colleagues in the Federal Law amending the Constitution and the Federal Theatre Organisation Act (526/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e23693	We're on the 8th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. The applicant, Mr Zinggl, is the first person to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e23721	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It has now been over 40 years, and hardly anyone knows what happened in 1973. Nobody – or hardly anyone – today in politics Those responsible at the time were at all in politics, but a law that has no reasonable basis, we are also responsible here if we do not change it. It is about § 133 of the Labour Constitution Act. Paragraph 6 states that works councils and works councils have no right of participation and no right of opposition. This has quite surprised us after we have come to believe that this is so, and we have tried to find out why this is so, but have actually not found anything. The only thing we have found was the explanations that assume that, I quote, “there was no need in practice for the establishment of central works councils for theatre companies”. – That’s a little bit of a marker. What practice has been examined, and who has identified needs? It was the Kreisky era, i.e. during the solo government of Bruno Kreisky. It's a mystery! I also wonder why the ÖGB has since shown no institutions and no initiative to change that – no matter what. After all, there is a small change in connection with the Federal Theatre Act of 1999. Since then, the Bundestheater has been excluded from this exception and can be sent to the Supervisory Boards of Works Councils with the right of participation and opposition, and they have, as well as the works councils at the Federal Museums, been able to reveal and prevent and improve a lot. The fact that the posting of works councils into the relevant bodies of companies no longer needs to be criticized today is, I believe, consensus. They are responsible for representing the interests of workers, and this is appropriate in connection with economicisation in the cultural sector, as I believe. We have more and more to do with precariates. Now these works councils are probably unable to stop the development, but they can at least relieve it there and there, brake it, dampen it. I think we should decide very soon to change these paragraphs, and I would ask you to support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e23766	The next item is the report by Mrs Hakel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e23787	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, On the request of Mr Zinggl: We looked at it, of course, and I admit, too, I was a little surprised that this is not the way it is called for. I too have researched why this has not happened in the past, and I have been told that at that time there has even been a corresponding request, which was also in consideration, but then there has been strong resistance from the federal states and great fears on the part of the theatre companies, which have justified it so that the works councils would not be in a house for so long, because they are always going elsewhere. So I see that too, that the reasoning is a little sluggish. But what this means for us in relation to the request is that we will definitely get back in touch with the theatre companies, listen to the experts once again and then see in any case that we will come to a hopefully common solution in the Committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e23815	The next speech is from Mr Höfinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e23836	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! On this request: A number of issues have already been addressed, and there is a clear need to differentiate. So, once in principle, it is regulated by the Labour Constitution Act that employees' representatives are sent to supervisory councils of stock companies. That's what it is. Of these, however, is the theatre area, theatre companies are excluded. Why? – An essential reason has already been suggested, but not really addressed: There are various legal forms of theatre activities. This starts with associations, societies civil law, individual companies, then there are those who do only temporary performances during the year, there are mobile businesses and many, many, much more. And then, whatever has already been mentioned, there are, of course, theater companies that only have seasonal performances, that is, that it should be partially elected twice, three times a year, a new works council. – These are the basics, that is the current situation of the theatre. In the Federal Theatres, this is different, since the works councils, the staff representatives, are already being sent to the Supervisory Boards, there it is clearly regulated. But now they suggest – but that is, as I think, perhaps even an error in the legal system, in the name finding – that employee participation is simply passed over to all theatre companies. But we have so many different forms, so, I think, it can't work so easily and probably can't be implemented in this way. And then it comes to the fact that not the competent works councils send the representatives, but you write in your request that the Entrepreneurship Law is the responsibility of the Works Council meeting, which is something completely different again. So I think we have to look at these points carefully, but just as the request is now available, I don't think it can be implemented simply because it is not practical. And if we assume that this is actually a classic social security matter, we should also discuss this, I think, with social partners – but of course we will continue to talk about it in the Committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e23881	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e23903	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! Strengthen works councils in theatre companies: Why not? If you look at other businesses, where works councils are also active in supervisory councils, a good cooperation usually comes out. The Works Council, my dear friends Ladies and gentlemen, the central link between the management and the workforce is therefore an essential factor of a company, a company. And why should a staff representative, a works council of theatre companies, not be sent to the Supervisory Board if there are already exceptions? In the explanatory statement – which has already been referred to by Mr Zinggl – the Government template for the Employment Constitution Act from 1973 is to be read that there was no need in practice. - Back then, dear friends! Now, however, there is the need for works councils to participate in supervisory councils, also in the theatre sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e23935	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment No 526/A to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. [[21:54:48]] 9. Point First reading: Request by Dr Eva Glawischnig-Piesczek, Members of Parliament, concerning a federal law amending the Rules of Procedure Act 1975 (547/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e23974	We're on the 9th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. The first speaker is Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e24002	Mr President. The debate on whether European Parliamentarians in the Austrian Parliament should be given a right of speech in the National Council is already taking place for some time. I can remember that we have already debated this question on the question of the esm design in the Rules of Procedure. At the time, it was our wish to have a speech right. We have not enforced ourselves, the government parties did not want to do so at the time. A few weeks ago, there was a joint proposal by SPÖ and ÖVP to introduce a right of speech – by the way, there is also a NEOS request. The proposals differ to a certain extent, and we should look at them relatively quickly and see that we come to a common solution. The NEOS request looks such that there is a general right to speak. – In fact, we believe that this is too far-reaching, because it is likely that the use of the right of speech would be difficult and that a certain reference to the European dimension is likely to make sense. This is not in the NEOS proposal. Our proposal, however, is that we define the European context relatively far, and that is different from the government's proposals. What is contained in this seven-point programme by SPÖ and ÖVP is the restriction on the current hours of Europe and statements by the members of the government. That would mean, among other things, that there would be no right to speak on the issue of ESM, that there is no right to speak on the issue of the implementation of European directives – and if you do, you should probably introduce it to the points where there is also a certain discussion. We know the European debates, the current European hours, which is often more of an internal debate, but that, in particular, when it comes to the question of such an ESM debate, European parliamentarians can also be heard, it would probably be an appeal, because it would bring in this very European perspective. But there is, as has been said, movement, and I hope that we can still move on to each other in the sense that it will be a truly serious right of speech on Europe. I say this quite clearly: The government's proposals are too far away from us, because the limitation to what you have in them would eliminate the exciting questions. Well, let's do it! Let us start by perhaps finishing the Rules of Procedure for the Investigation Committee – we should be done in three weeks – and then try to resolve the next point and allow the involvement of the European Parliamentarians in the Austrian National Council.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e24050	The next speech is from Mr Wenninger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e24071	Mr President. High house! I believe that the reform of the Rules of Procedure must be comprehensively addressed. The presentation of the seven-point programme of the two clubmen Schieder and Lopatka has a broad presentation of all necessary co-co-decision, co-examination possibilities not only from Members of the European Union, but also some more. It is also a question of how we, as mandates, deal with the tasks we are assigned to us under the Treaty of Lisbon. One point is the participation of the European Parliamentarians, not only in the plenary session but also in the committees. There is, of course, a discussion to be made in the expert committees and not only to limit it to the EU subcommittee, but above all, to make it clear that European policy is not a policy that takes place somewhere far away and has nothing to do with us, but is an integral part of Austrian domestic policy. In recent elections, we have once again noticed very strongly that not only the Boulevard, but also a large part of the population, believe that most of the materials discussed in the National Council have less work from the EU. The opposite is true! Austria has expanded its scope for participation, and I believe that even beyond the European level, it should be thought and asked whether other high-level representatives of international policy should also have the opportunity to discuss with us from the EU Council President to the UN Secretary-General, if necessary. I believe that an internationalization of the contentious debate would be a very good thing for this House. I thank you for the Greens' request. He is a post-it, a wish list that can be brought into this debate. We will, as I mean, surely agree on a good solution.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e24112	Next word: Member of the Council of Ministers of the European Communities. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e24133	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the seven-point package of the government parties SPÖ and ÖVP has already taken an important step here. And we should not pretend to have been part of this House's policy to date. We have discussed the TTIP free trade agreement intensively over the last two days. When we discuss agricultural policy, it is 90 percent European policy that we are discussing here. Europe's policy is simply cross-cutting policy in many materials. With regard to the better exchange between EU MEPs and MEPs here in the National Council, it can be suggested to any club that they themselves take care of it. For the ÖVP club I can tell you: We're keeping a lot of exchange here. If Let us extend the right of speech here by many points, then the question arises whether we are not finally simply continuing the party-political agitation with other protagonists. And we already have to take care of which bodies are involved and how these are democratically legitimate, I say whether it is the European Parliament or the national Parliament, whether it is a country day or a community. In the end, it is important which bodies are as chosen, with which majority are composed, and how here is the formation of opinions, without finally mixing the levels. But I think the need is given. You can also see the movement. I just want to comment on two press releases. If the NEOS write: “We are pleased that the two government parties now finally love Europe,” I mean, perhaps this fits in with the debate that we have held before about the different relationship stati that one or another has who he loves, but I think we all show relatively clearly the affection for Europe. I would like to conclude by quoting the Vice-President of the European Parliament, who writes: “We will now look at the coalition’s proposals in detail.” – I believe that is the way we are going, and that is the end of the record in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e24175	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Darmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e24197	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Ladies and gentlemen, particularly Mr Dieter Brosz! You know that I appreciate you very much because of your expertise and your cooperation, especially in the preparation of the reform of the Investigation Committee's Rules of Procedure. But as far as your request for the implementation of a speech right here in plenary for Members of the European Parliament is concerned, worlds are already separating us in terms of content. I would like to introduce it so conciliatoryly, but I would also like to justify it. If one listens to the voice of the population – to the voice of the population, yes – which in itself is very essential to all our actions as MPs, as a people's representatives here in the High House, then one can hear very well there: Why should Members of another Chamber, the European Parliament, have the right to speak here in the Vienna House? On the contrary, many Members who pursue their activities in Strasbourg and Brussels should be obliged to listen, as far as initiatives are concerned, in the interests of our Republic, in order to finally represent them in Strasbourg and Brussels, not only in the form of a right of speech but also in a duty of speech. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There it would often be necessary, quite simply, to raise the vote for Austria in many different sub-areas. We and in particular our people, whom we have given confidence to these Members on the optional lists, trust that our Austrian interests will be represented in Brussels and that this House will not be used to present a cheap, cheap variant for the sale of our own business in Brussels. If I see the argumentation and justification of the Greens' request, namely that you assume that it is necessary to have a consultative vote here, I must say that it is also no secret that this consultation by Members of the European Parliament is already possible in the relevant committees. Nor do we hide – and we will then be able to deepen this in the Committee – that it is quite possible to think of an extension to further specialist committees in this regard, so that, where an EU reference is given, the MEPs of the European Parliament can and will act in an advisory capacity in the Technical Committee in order to bring forward and advise the decisions there. This does not make it necessary, however, for these Members to have a right of speech here at the speaker's desk. One thing I would like to stress in this context is that: A speech right here at the speaker's desk in a National Council meeting for a Member of the European Parliament with a speaking time includes a reduction in the speaking time of MEPs to the Austrian Parliament and a reduction in our opinion. This too must be taken into account. Dear ladies and gentlemen! It should also be taken into account that what is required here – and that is much more essential, I have recently strangled it – is a system of illegality, because here in the House, on the one hand, Members have a right to speak to the National Council, on the other hand, of course, the National Council's auxiliary bodies and, last but not least, the persons responsible for the National Council. That's good, and it's supposed to stay that way. For us, too, it is very essential, perhaps not to be understood in this way for other political groups – this is also a very clear statement for the liberals –: The symbolism is also important, and such a right to speak out here for Members who are not members of this Chamber is devastating, because the Austrian Parliament is not to become a sub-parliament of the European Parliament. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I believe that this is, in the sense of a self-confident Austrian Parliament with the relevant Members, who are also to be active in this sense, a special appreciation of their own activities. We have here – among ourselves – to make the appropriate decisions, to carry out votes and to prepare for these votes by means of the appropriate exchange of knowledge. No party here in the House and no Member of Parliament will be prevented from going ahead in the specialist committees, but also within the party itself, in order to be able to make a specific decision here in the matter. In this sense, I think there will be another exciting discussion in the Committee. I am looking forward to the exchange of views, opinions and arguments, but I am convinced that many of these arguments have something for themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e24264	Last speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Strolz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e24285	I'm the end today. Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We think the Greens' request is very good. - Yes, ours continues. We are not only a grand filling of idealism, but also of pragmatism where it needs it. We believe that what the Greens put on the table here can be a major variant. We are pleased that the SPÖ and the ÖVP follow this direction in their joint press conference. And we are looking forward to the Committee's deliberations. European policy is internal policy. Europe is part of Austria, Austria is part of Europe. Yes, the FPÖ has recognized this correctly: It is also about a symbolic gesture, but of course not only, but it is about a successful interconnecting of the European with the Austrian political level, and either we make progress or we have a concubine here instead of a co-operation. And I believe that this is not conducive to the quality of political work, nor is it good for citizens. This has to interfere, because just as I am Austrian, I am Europeans and as I feel like an Austrian politician, I feel like a European politician and vice versa. That's something quite normal. And in twenty years this will be quite normal, no one will understand this debate anymore. So I'm confident. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e24331	Mr Klubobmann, you were actually or were the end of the list of speakers, but all better the end than the last. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with ÖVP and SPÖ as well as with representatives of FPÖ.]] No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment No 547/A to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. The agenda is exhausted. [[22:10:33]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00041_d8e24377	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 612/A to 674/A have been tabled at today's meeting. Questions 2442/J to 2598/J were also raised. Finally, Mr President, Mr Winter, from 7 to 10/JPR, has been sent to the President of the National Council. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 22.11 a.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
