ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e4829	Good day, ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the 12th. Parliament resolution on the proposal for a European The Official Protocol of the 11th. Meeting of 17 March 1990 On 1 February 2014 the Parliamentary Directorate remained undisputed and undisputed. Deputies Dr. Moser, Schenk, Heinzl and Wimmer are reported as prevented. For the purposes of § 50 of the Rules of Procedure, Dr Rosenkranz, Member of Parliament, raised written objections to the agenda of today's sitting in writing. The objections concern the decommissioning of item 3 of the agenda. I am not in favour of these objections, which is why the National Council has to decide. In the debate under Rule 50 of the Rules of Procedure, I limit the speaking time to 5 minutes and the number of speakers per club to three. The debate and the vote will take place after the current hour. I announce that this meeting will be broadcast live from ORF 2 to 1 p.m. and from ORF III. [[11:01:57]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e4886	We arrive at the current hour with the theme: ‘Safety instead of post closures!’ First of all, Mr Klubobmann Strache. I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time is 10 minutes. – Please
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e4913	Madam President. Minister of the Interior! Ladies and gentlemen! Today's current hour concerns the government's planned police service closures, namely 122 in the number. These closures are simply to be addressed, because in our view this is a security-political ballast that is planned, and you have to address them accordingly, as our police services in Austria are important and necessary, especially in the field of prevention. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] I think it's going to be a completely wrong approach: We don't have too many police stations, but we have too few police officers, too few executive officers! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It can't be that if one finds out that officials are missing and too few policemen are being trained, too few planning places are present and occupied, says: Because we have too little executive officers, we're blocking police services instead of choosing the other necessary approach, namely finally to ensure more planning posts, to train more executive officers and to have more police officers on the street. That must be the reason approach – and not the closure of police services! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There are closures in areas where you can only wonder. On the one hand, there is the beautiful East Tyrol, the Defereggental, and it is planned to close the police station in St. Jakob. If you see how to get into this talk room and how long police if they are needed in this region would be needed to get there, then this is considered to be crazy and dangerous. The police station at Klagenfurt Station should also be closed, although there is a hotspot of drug dealers and other criminals who are always on the scene. You wonder about such an approach! If police services are to be closed in the South Styria region, where hundreds of miles are no longer found, I wonder: What's reasonable about that? How are you doing, Mrs. Interior Minister? Will you soon be because we have too few doctors to close hospitals instead of finally training according to doctors? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Do you think that the population is getting healthier by closing hospitals? Or do you think we're locking up school classes and schools to make the children smarter and smarter? What's the concept behind that? - I just can't understand. 122 police services should be closed – and there Vienna is not included at all! Vienna is still being negotiated separately, and there is a further kahlschlag to be expected. This has nothing to do with increasing security. Let us take a look at the course of security development in Austria: Since 1999, a number of changes have been made. Today, compared to 1999, when comparing the values, we have less than 3,000 executive officials! In the meantime, decisions have been taken, as well as decisions have been taken, so that there has been an EU enlargement, the Schengen border has been extended and the organised crime has been able to enter Austria more strongly, without having to experience border controls, have been able to step up its raids, and have also been able to go out of the country relatively unhindered with the thief. – And then you reduce the number of cops? That is the completely wrong way! The opposite measure should have been put in place, Minister of the Interior. I wonder why you did not act accordingly, namely to increase the number of posts and to train police officers. I say that there are strikingly many posts that are locked in red and blue communities or are affected by locking up. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] If you look at that in Austria as a whole, you come to this assessment. I wonder why you are making a gift for the criminals and obviously giving a further invitation, where, in times of increasing crime, it took quite different measures. In 2010, there were 535 745 committed crimes; in 2012 there were already 548,000 reported crimes. [[Call the FPÖ: Inconceivable!]] The comparison of Vienna and Munich: In 2012, 203 000 crimes were reported in Vienna, the 23.1 crimes committed per hour, compared to those committed in Munich: 98 500 crimes, 11.2 crimes per hour. So you can see from this direct urban comparison that we find a completely different crime hotspot in Vienna than in Munich. The education rate for us is 35.2 percent, in Munich it is 60.5 percent. What does that mean? - We need more cops! [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Nachbaur.]] We need more cops on the street. More police officers must be trained and no further savings must be made on the back of the executive – savings that ultimately always hit the population. It is the population, which is ultimately affected by your savings measures, and many citizens are desperate. In Vienna we are currently experiencing an increase in the number of burglaries, as well as the crime of robbery and violence. We must finally make a security offensive, instead of continuing to push forward the personnel emergency as you do! There is a partial lack of up to 30 percent of the staff, please. These are the facts. That's reality. It's up there. The police closures only compensate for these staff failures, rather than ensuring sufficient personnel. It is not a security police added value for the population to be decided here, but it is ultimately a saving. Although the number of overtimes has been changed but at the disadvantage of safety, overtimes have so far occurred in the services, as too few staff have been available, and these overtimes are now saved. In the end, these officials are not to be found on the streets, but the overtimes of the individual police officers who are made in the offices today due to the lack of officials are saved. But where is there the added value of security policy? – There is no one here. The staff failure will not be compensated for, and this is, of course, at the expense of the external service presence. We liberals therefore call for greater support to be given to executive officials, namely, relief from office and administrative activities, by administrative staff to be employed where this is possible, in order not to allow the police to do the writing, administrative work, but to be freed. [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Nachbaur.]] We also call for a charge of our own for executive officers, which are used in police departments with a high additional burden. Respect for the police officers – and that must also be said – who have to hold their heads for all of our safety every day and expect to be injured in the service or even lose their lives, and that in the event of a pretty bad payment. I think that it is also necessary to do so once and not only to thank the officials for their respect and recognition, but also to support them financially, as well as in terms of equipment. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The equipment and equipment of the police departments is worrying in many areas. Around one third of all police services have acute renovation needs. This even leads to officials buying color around their private money, taking the brush into their own hands, and painting the police department to create their own hands to achieve appropriate improvements because it is not financed. That's really an immense state. At a glance at some police department, you have to generate. There are structural shortcomings, there are not even minimum social standards when it comes to washing and showering, which are often not sufficient, and many, much more in deficits. That's more than worrying. In many areas, there are no even disabled access. Let us also talk about it, because they should have been implemented long ago! Instead of pursuing the lawn mower principle here and blocking the small and important police departments, the Ministry of the Interior, in the central office, would prefer to develop and implement a savings plan for its own administration. The officials are missing in many areas of necessary equipment – a few things you might want to address: For example, drug speedsters, which have been demanded by the executive for years, to special protective vests, which can also be worn under the uniform, are all not available until now, although it has been promised in the election campaign. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Although Mr. Federal Chancellor Faymann has also promised this in the ORF election confrontations, nothing is in sight to date. I say that instead of starve, support must be the principle for the executive, in the interests of the people, because the population has a right to safety. People work in this country and today pay maximum taxes, pay maximum taxes – and in the course of today's Parliament's day tax increases will be decided again. People work half a year for the state and then only for their private bag. And then what do they experience? How are their taxpayers dealt with? – It is not even satisfied in the field of safety. As many citizens feel rightly abandoned, there must therefore be another Austrian security policy! Mrs Innenminister, you should therefore rather think about whether you should not close the Schengen border here or there without warning, namely in Austria there or there again, to ensure that organized crime does not break into our house and disappear again. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e5019	Mrs. Mag has now received an introductory opinion. Mikl's head of speech reported. I would draw attention to the fact that even in this case the speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e5040	Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! Estimated visitors to the gallery! Appreciate television. The population that people in this country rightly demand from me as an interior minister that Austria continues to be one of the safest countries in the world. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] It is my job to assume responsibility for the fact that the police in particular have sufficient human resources, sufficient modern equipment and, of course, a modern, contemporary structure. If we look at the personal equipment and above all the contemporary, modern structure, we find ourselves at the top of the international comparison, we are very good on the road here. However, those who know the structure of the police know that we need action in this area. It is therefore not surprising that the experts of our home, as well as national and international security experts and the Court of Auditors say quite clearly: We need a change in this respect, it simply takes larger units to maintain more impact; more impact on the fight against crime, more impact on the field of education, more impact on the field of external service presence. And precisely with this reform we meet all these demands. Of course we were clear from the first minute: If we plan this reform, when we implement this reform, we will feel the counterwind, and we will be blown into the face by the counterwind. But I believe it is in the nature of the matter that every individual mayor, every single mayor, tries to obtain the police inspection, because it is difficult to separate from lovable things and because of course it is important to do persuasion and information work. Yes, this reform has two options: Either you stand on the side of populism or you put yourself on the side of those who bear responsibility for security. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] I put myself on the side of responsibility, on the side of citizens, in order to guarantee security. What you are doing, Mr Strache, is nothing but discouraging the citizens. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Bitch.]] This is nothing but populism that you have been running for years and decades. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] You know very well that this “Modern Police” project is a purely security programme, that we do not spare ourselves a single cent with this project, but that we have only one goal in mind, namely to increase security for citizens in this country. Of course, this reform also involves very clear orders: first of all, the development of a modern service structure, which will help our police inspections to maintain a sustainable impact that will improve and guarantee citizens' proximity in particular. [[Abg. Just keywords!]] [[Abg. May. Darmann: More staff is more impact!]] This reform leads above all to greater self-confidence for our police officers. To drive alone is to be the exception in the future; that is, in the future there will only be more double strips. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A second assignment, which is associated with it, is the concept of professional and management career. We know very well that the forms of crime have changed, that we need more specialistism – in various areas, whether in the foreign police, in the transport police or in the IT field, wherever. It is precisely with this reform that we are able to create more specialistism, and above all we are able to get the specialists into the regions in order to be able to fight crime in the best way. Until the end of this legislative period, it will be possible to train 1,200 specialists. Thirdly, It is important for us to relieve the police from administrative activities, so that they have more time for the actual police tasks. Especially with the new service concept we achieve this, but in addition there is also a separate round, which clearly checks all the events, all regulations, all activities of the police to see where there is still room to relieve our police officers of bureaucracy, of administrative activities. Yes, this police reform will be implemented in the next few weeks and months. At this point, I would also like to thank our national police directors and our district commanders very much and cordially, who have launched a modern, forward-looking service structure concept. There will be 122 police inspections in order to increase flexibility in human resources, in the classification of services and, above all, in strip service. But of course it is also important for us to be there, where police inspections are put together, to offer the communities a security package, such as the police base with the emergency call button, where the police can be reached around the clock, where the police can be called continuously. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] They all know that 98 percent of all interventions take place via mobile phone or telephone and only 2 percent are directly addressed to the police inspections. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Especially because we will have more police officers on the spot, the start will be faster and the accessibility will be better given. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ]] Safety is not defined by the number of police inspections, but by how much time is left for police work, how much strip service will eventually be available. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, we have made a very clear promise that the number of police officers in the district will remain the same. That is to say, the number of contacts for citizens, for the mayors and mayors, of course, remains the same. [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] So you see, ladies and gentlemen, the “Modern Police” project is a purely security programme. This reform will enable us to strengthen both objective security and, above all, the subjective sense of security. I would like to thank all those who support this reform, and above all I would like to thank our police officers who are holding their heads for all our security every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e5172	I draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants at the current hour according to § 97a Abs. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 5 minutes. I call Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e5196	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Estimated audiences in front of the screens! It is often very difficult to have an objective discussion, and you, Mr Klubobmann Strache, have raised a number of points to which I would like to replicate. I invite you to look up as one who has weathered against: It was at the time of a blue finance minister and a blue member of the government who was responsible for the public service when 3,000 executive planning posts were rationalized. That, I beg not to forget and say: We weren't there! – The FPÖ was there! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of ÖVP and Greens.]] It was the Faymann 1 government, the vice chancellor, and the two opposition parties, that they have been fully aware that, Mrs. Federal Minister, because you are looking at me, they have increased by 1,000 planning posts and more than 400 administrative planning posts for the executive to discharge the administrative service. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] – That only the fairness half, to discuss it in a serious and correct way. Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian executive does excellent work. [[Yes, at the FPÖ.]] Why does it not seem necessary to thank anyone in one sentence? I would like to thank the Austrian executive colleagues. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This Federal Government has undertaken to launch further reforms after the reforms of recent years – which are good reforms – so that time can be guaranteed as efficiently as possible for individual citizens and individual citizens. 1 200 colleagues will go into additional technical training to take account of today's trend in the manifestations of crime. Ladies and gentlemen! There are also some knowledgeable people and some professionals here. We already know that we have personnel representation elections this year, and we already know what happens again and again when elections arrive, but one thing you need to explain to me: Where is the security for four-man, five-man services when, on the year, a sick person is on vacation and one goes home from the night shift? I think we already have to see at what time we are living today, what technology, what equipment is available. It is important that citizens get help quickly and efficiently. This approach, ladies and gentlemen, and I believe that you, as with the last arrangements we have made in this context, will have to take note this time that this reform is also a good one. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I am already curious about the forthcoming budget debates, which will not take long. Finally, you will list what the Court of Auditors criticizes. Read more – anyone of you will have read the “Press” on Saturday –: The Court of Auditors believes that, at last, a proposal will be taken up by the government, namely this modern security concept. They are now criticizing what the Court of Auditors has been calling for all the time, because much has changed in the field of technology. To people prefer that an empty police inspection means security, I think, we can give ourselves. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: It also belongs to police officers!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In recent years, this Federal Government and the previous government have improved your minimum of 3,000 executive officials by 1,000 executive officials, i.e. executive planning posts, and by more than 400 administrative planning posts for the discharge of executives, and we will also try to increase further in this GP, above all, and I say this quite clearly, in those areas where most work is, i.e. in urban areas, in Vienna and in other cities. I think you should take a closer look at what's going to be done. This reform serves only the Austrians, because it ensures security by our police every day around the clock. I'll invite you to discuss this with us on the subject.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e5288	Mr Amon is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e5320	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! What can you say after Otto Pendlnoch? – You really got it to the point, dear Otto! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] While our Mrs. Federal Minister is presenting a security concept in which she ensures that the police are closer to the citizen, FPÖ is presenting a real estate concept. She believes that the police should be represented in as many places as possible, but we need the police there, where man and woman are in need, and not where, by chance, there is a police department from age. That is why this concept is a real concept, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Maybe you're doing a business with the emergency buttons! Maybe you'll make a cut again when you buy the emergency call button!]] Mr Strache, you have above all criticized the situation in Vienna, but Vienna has not yet been negotiated. So you already know what will come out of the negotiations. So you also have Hellenic abilities, for which I congratulate very, very warmly, Mr Strache. They mentioned Munich as an example. I think this is very impressive because you are talking about the fact that in Munich the education rate is better than here in Vienna. All right, let's get to the top of it. Although Austria is one of the safest countries in the world, we still want to get better, that is our claim and the claim of our Federal Minister. But it is interesting – in Vienna we have 94 – how many police inspections Munich has, Mr. Strache! – 24! So it seems that the education rate and security are not directly related to the offices that exist in different places. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Street: How many officials are there in Munich, how many in Vienna?]] By the way, Berlin has less than 50 police services. [[Abg. Street: How many officials are there in Vienna?]] As a member of the federal state, I invite you not only to focus on Vienna, Mr Strache, but also to look at what it looks like in the federal states, how the structures are there, how it is ordered to be security for officials, because, as I said, I can only quote Otto Pendl, an empty service does not benefit anyone, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] They always complain that there are too few police officers. – Yes, the Federal Minister said only this morning again in the “Morgenjournal” that there will be additional planning sites in Vienna. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister, for making you more secure and fighting in the budget. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] But we were not ineffective during the last legislative period, Mr. Strache. More than 1,000 plantations in the last legislative period! In contrast to your real estate concept, ladies and gentlemen, this is a security concept! What is included in this “modern police” project? – An increase in external presence. I think this is the decisive thing, because the citizens want a visible police, they want to see them. It's not the Taferl, it's about the police presence on the spot. It is about reducing administrative activities for our officials. That too makes sense. [[Abg. Kitzmüller: We've been talking about that for five years, and nothing happens!]] It is wonderful if you also take this position, but our Mrs. Federal Minister is putting it into practice. That's the difference: You're talking, we're going to do it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] To date, it has been very difficult to bring specialists out to the regions. In the future, this concept will make it possible for you to do so because you just have bigger police inspections. Mr Strache, you have referred to the fact that overtime was said to have been reduced during the last legislative period. – That's wrong! No overtime has been reduced, Mr Strache, please stick to the truth. We are also concerned – and this is particularly important to us – with increasing the self-security of police officers. In the case of individual strips, which Mrs Bundesminister referred to, tragic incidents have always occurred over the last few years. This new approach will ensure that there will no longer be any single stripes in the future, ladies and gentlemen. It's about achieving more security. Mrs Bundesminister, I would like to congratulate you on this – because it does not happen in all areas as you have done – that you have really made the experts speak. You have involved the police in the development of this concept, and it is a good concept, a good security concept and not a real estate concept, Mr. Stache!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e5438	Mr Vilimsky is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e5460	Madam President. After the red and black satire contributions now to the situation! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs. Federal Minister, you remember that on the occasion of the debate on military service in Austria in the “Time in Figure 2” you have rightly said that by turning away from the military duty of civil service damage and the rescue is likely to come 10 minutes later. They were right about that, and that was also an element of the outcome of this vote. However, I wonder: Why are you making exactly the mistakes in security policy that you have complained about in the field of national defence policy? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They meant, Mrs Bundesminister, that this reform would shorten the so-called period of police intervention. Either say the untruth or you are misinformed. That is why I can hold back the facts from you. Please take the job remedy to the Federal Finance Act 2012, namely the explanations on the Federal Proposal, at hand! Then you'll see that the average duration of intervention – that's that time frame from the police's understanding to the police's arrival – was 20 minutes. Now your Director-General for Public Security – I quote – refers to your watchroom lock reform – is reasonable, within 20 to 30 minutes every point will be reached in Austria. This means in further consequence that the duration of the intervention could increase by 50 percent, apart from the fact that 20 minutes are indisputable anyway and it will now take up to half an hour. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Listen Please stop with this permanent fairy tale of more cops! I remember the Styria, the pact of Mrs. Ex's Minister of the Interior Fekter – she's not here now – with Sagittarius: 300 more cops for the Styria. This has not, of course, been done. [[Abg. Strache: They are looking for them to this day!]] I remember Upper Austria. There the mayors are putting against this guard lock reform, as you say. I remember Lower Austria, the resolutions in the country, 500 more police, because it's just too few. I recall Salzburg, where you, Mrs Federal Minister, wanted to inform about this reform and thankfully wavered the mayors and said that they would rather be active in the election campaign than listen to it. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Steinbichler.]] Mr Pendl praised the situation in Vienna in particular. The Federal Minister has announced that he would like to make more provision for Vienna for 1 000 policemen. – That, Mrs. Federal Minister, is the reality: In Vienna, 1,600 police planning posts were dismantled. They don't even follow your statistical tricks in order to beautify the crime. There have been monthly reports on the development of crime some time ago, but they have been deleted for a long time. I have the right to inherit, I would like to say almost to you, Mrs Federal Minister, in the context of my right to interact, the question as to the development of crime in Austria. You gave me the answer a few days ago – official reply from your ministry – that the figures do not exist. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Unmistakable!]] At the same time, on the same day, I find content selected in a daily newspaper exactly on those questions I have asked you. [[Call the FPÖ: Unheard!]] – Mrs Minister, this is a disdain of Parliament, which can never go through that way! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They now close 122 posts and a number of other items in Vienna – perhaps in sum to 150 – and pretend to be in order to ensure more security in the Republic. Mrs. Minister, I haven't heard such a thing yet! In addition, this is also an insult to officials. Faith You really are, the officers are in the police inspections, are they putting their feet up or staring holes in the air? – That’s the case with me! The officials have administrative duties to perform, for them the guard room is an important support point. Delinquents are sometimes consulted there. Anyone visiting a guard room will also realize that there is regular hectic operation. What will this look like in the future, Mrs. Minister? Is the official supposed to have a laptop in the backpack and then get on the way because there's no police inspection anymore, heck on the edgestone and do his administrative tasks? You can't seriously mean that! You have found a hole of €40 billion in your budget, and now across all resorts in all brutality is saved. Sell now You're a police guard lockdown plan as a reform and as more security. If this is really the case, Mrs Bundesminister, why is there not a close wave over Austria in the years before? [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] – Because of course this is exactly the wrong thing! Fewer police inspections mean a More crime. You need to know if you're going through this fatal plan! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e5560	Mr Pilz, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Pilz on his - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e5581	Mrs. Federal Minister, you are right that you do not follow the Freedom Party, because empty guard posts at any price, where occasionally one or two officials sit, that doesn't make any sense in the long run. It makes sense to check exactly where we need police posts and where we don't. Of the 122 guards to be closed – perhaps the Freedom Party does not know – 100 have five officials or significantly less, sometimes only two officials. I would have expected you not to say to all 100 people that they are being locked up, but to some say yes, they are structurally so important that we invest and ensure that there are more officials there that ensure proper service conditions. This applies to Ramsau, which applies to wild Alps, which is true for Weißensee, which I personally know very well – for the entire Laming valley in the Obersteiermark. You have not supplied the entire Laming valley, more than 20 kilometres, you have the route Heeflau–Wildalpen – 70 kilometers! – policely unscathed. Regrettably, this list can be continued up to quite other problems, such as the Lower Austrian community of Eichgraben, an extreme growth community with very special problems, which you also fail, although it is clear to all of us that there should be police posts there. What I do not understand as much as the in-sitting of the population in the sparsely populated country, where there are often no more uniformed officials in the vicinity of 30, 40, 50 kilometers, is the case of Klagenfurt Bahnhof. Our colleague Matthias Köchlhat, a Klagenfurt councillor, has been fighting for a long time for this post to be preserved. Luckily now the Klagenfurt mayor has also waken up. But imagine: A new watchroom is being built at the station in Innsbruck, and it is locked up in Klagenfurt! I looked at the post, talked to the commander, and he said: We're on the street all the time, ten officials, and we need to have the APA and newspapers directed by the Interior Minister that we – I quote – are desk guards. Why do you insult the officials in Klagenfurt in this way, Mrs Federal Minister? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I don't understand personally. And I also do not understand why you do not receive these about 30 posts, which would have been clearly preserved in our search, and in case of doubt simply lock them up. A part has to be locked up. But a substantial part of it would be to be preserved in the sparsely populated country up to the Klagenfurt station. And the most absurd example is the bilingual Carinthian community of Globasnitz. You just have them – thank you very much! – made accessible. And now that she's accessible, she's locked up. Yes, you know what you're doing on the left? Have you lost the overview of the post closures? I don't understand. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One last thing about the Freedom Party: Especially in the case of security policy discussions, it is always important to preserve the relations, that is, the conditions. Although highly professional and highly dangerous Eastern European intruders break into Austria for 20 years, also because of the lack of investment in the criminal police in Austria, everyone who has I can't imagine that this is a financial damage that is comparable to what the Freedom Party in Carinthia has done within a few years. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] We should keep an eye on these conditions. If we want to protect people, we must protect them from burglary crime, organized crime, especially Eastern European intrusion crime, as well as from organised political crime, which is mostly crime around the Freedom Party. And for both we need well-trained police and for both we need police protection from political abuse. And I hope, Minister of the Interior, that in the future you will look more closely at the fact that in both areas where Austrians deserve protection, the police will be supported accordingly. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e5664	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e5685	Madam President. . So if we now have the correferat of the liberal colleagues behind us, should I please speak? [[Abg. Vilimsky: There's no call for order?]] [[Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz: A party that accuses someone of organized crime usually receives a call for order!]] - Thank you. Madam President.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e5728	As soon as I have given the floor, of course the speaker has the floor. I have noted that there is a statement on the Rules of Procedure here, but I will not give the floor until the end of Mr Hagen's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e5746	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister, is the name of a mayor from Upper Austria telling you something about Mayor Jakob Auer? Does that tell you something? This is the mayor of Steinerkirchen at the Traun. [[Abg. Wöinger: Johann!]] Johann. This is the brother of Jacob, and therefore the Jacob does not sit there, for this mayor has declared his resignation due to the post closure in his place. Mrs Bundesminister, now you see, this is an ÖVP mayor, not even your own party colleagues agree with your procedure. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Police lockdowns, that's a very wrong signal. Here the horse is stumped by the tail. And I would like to draw attention to the fact that one has gone here once and saves the legal system. I do not take it from you, Mrs. Federal Minister, that there is no cent to be saved, because if I close posts and no longer have to operate them, I will save. And that's the point. You should not actually save on safety, and that can cost me a bit. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] But, Mrs. Federal Minister, you won't have a single police officer on the street either, I can guarantee you as a police officer who knows the matter. Because these services are already so starved that almost no one is at the service anymore. That is why you are making an optical correction and closing these services so that we can show fewer errors there. And I think that's the completely wrong way. The right way would be to save you first with the administration. In other words, the administrative activities have been so inflated in recent years that the police are no longer on the street, but are in the writing room and have to carry out the administrative tasks there. And that's what you're talking about. And then we can discuss where it might be reasonable to close a service or put some together. That would be the right way. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Mrs Bundesminister, the staff are currently being saved at the stage of the so-called reforms, and there is nothing at all in the administration. The staff are missing on the services. And I think it must be countered. I'll give you an example of the police inspection long at limit. This is a long valley into the Bregenz Forest, where the only post is now closed. And then please explain to me with which right in Langen then a wax room with an emergency call button is set up, while this is for example in Sulzberg above, where it is then quite a piece to Bregenz or to Hittisau to refund an ad, not the case. For example, what right does Langen have over Sulzberg that there should be “more security” – under quotation marks? That's for me to question. Or what do you say to the posts closed years ago? Do these communities now also have a guard room? Or how do you want to improve safety there? These police bases must certainly be questioned once. Mrs. Federal Minister! One question: Do you know what the basic need of the population is? - That's the safety. And the fundamental task of the state is to ensure the security of the population. The taxpayer pays the money for it. You take the money, you take the taxes, but in reality you leave the population on security issues of their fate. And that's safe to fix. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We need a well-equipped executive, Mrs. Federal Minister, and rested police officers. The wrong thing is safe if you do the following: The administration is becoming increasingly inflated in the police stations by the reform, and the police officers are being bloated properly. There, administration is produced. But outside, pull people off. And that's what I'm talking about, Mrs. Federal Minister! There you can save, you can really save, because then really would be more people on the street. And I'll give you one on the way: We need our own executive service law with well-trained officials, who are then also properly paid and motivated. Then they can make sure they're safe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e5812	Mr Vilimsky spoke on business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e5836	Many in this house know that colleague Pilz sometimes victims of his own prophylaxis It's going to be. And it would also be unwise for him to get into this discussion with hard words. What can certainly not be, however, is that, in such a debate, the third most powerful political group in the House is being pushed into the vicinity of organised crime by the Pilz Member and the National Council Bureau is listening here, and this is not available with a call for order. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Madam President, I can only add: If someone here uses hypocrisy, there's a call for order. If a Member of this House calls for a whole group to be close to organised crime, there will not even be an ominous vote on the part of the Bureau. I would ask you to bear in mind the text of Mr Pilz's speech and, if necessary, to bear in mind your call for an order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e5884	Mr Vilimsky, you, of course, know the Rules of Procedure very well. First of all, it is your right to report for business treatment. Secondly, You can also point out that there may have been some questionable statements. But otherwise, the decision is to be made here alone. I have already requested the Minutes of Mr Pilz's speech. I will look at them carefully again and will not comment until I have read them carefully again. Because I didn't see it as you described it here now. The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e5914	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Current hour under the title ‘Security instead of Postshields’. – I actually think the title is missing because a connection between the number of posts and security is being established. It's actually about how many policemen we have, and not how many houses they serve. With the choice of the subject and with the choice of title, I believe the liberals are damaging to the subjective sense of security at least as much as the Minister of the Interior with the procedure she has chosen. You've got to look at this on the business level. According to Global Peace Index 2013, Austria is on the 4th place worldwide. ==References====External links== So there's no reason for panic. And if somewhere in a small or medium-sized community is closed a post that was not occupied at night, I can't imagine that for this reason in this place a break-in, a break-in or a night break would happen more than that would have been the case if the unoccupied post were still daily. Mr Amon has already given daylight to the incorrect Munich argument. With about a quarter of the services and a significantly lower percentage of managers, the Munichers create the twice as high education rate as their colleagues in Vienna. And this shows quite well that the number of services is not decisive for security. Now to the Minister for the Interior and to her actions. I would like to start with the positive: The intentions are understandable, more staff should be visible outside the streets, we also consider necessary. A Court of Auditors recommendation will be implemented in order to ensure the efficient use of funds. Fewer posts also mean fewer executive positions, and that means, if not immediately, more money for immediate security in the medium term, without someone making any less personal, because he is guaranteed by the “Fallscreen regulation”. Fewer services mean less costs for electricity, water, maintenance, buildings, so less infrastructure costs. But the way you have made your decision, which posts are closed and which are not, is not transparent and not comprehensible. What parameters have been set for the question of whether a service is closing or not? - It's in the dark. There are national leaders reporting negotiation results. This does not imply that this has been done in accordance with objective parameters. There are, may I remind you, nine federal states, and for eight you do not present the measures and for a ninth do not, that comes separately. Yes, if any of the other eight felt just, this would surprise me. I can very well understand the displeasure in the federal states when Vienna experiences special treatment here. And here I come to the point: I do not think that there is really something behind it that deserves the name concept if I put in such fragile measures and transport them to the outside. They referred to communication. Yes, communication can't be a talk. There were rumors in circulation, and the mayors concerned learned on the day of the media announcement via the telephone call of the National Police Directorate that the posts were closed with them. What is communication about an emotionally sensitive topic? You should have included the mayors. They could have been won because they have the wire to the local population. And this would have allowed you to bring some peace into the whole story, into which communication could be brought. And if you say it's a lot of communication, then yes, in retrospect, if the scorpion is already there. You should have disclosed the arguments that you should have communicated this honestly and transparently to those concerned, and that at an early stage. The communicative failure of the ministry and, I also have to say, the minister personally also shows himself in that it then comes to the establishment of civil defences, and the especially in ÖVP-regulated communities, in Semriach, in Wundschuh. That's what I'm asking myself: Do you want to help undermine the state monopoly of violence if you drive your mayor to the whites so that they support the establishment of civil defenses there? - Yeah, I'll be right there. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] You said we didn't save ourselves a cent, no posts were saved. We'll have an eye to see if you keep your promises. In financial matters, we do not believe that this group of people, which is called the government, is a word.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e5981	Next speaker: Mrs Lueger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e6004	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr Strache, Mr Vilimsky, if you stand out here and then say that it is a serious attack against security, I ask myself again and again: Did you push out the time between 2001 and 2006? I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it is clear to all audiences that you were responsible for 116 post closures at the time. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek: It'll get much worse!]] At the time, they were responsible for the abolition of 953 planning posts. At the time, they were responsible for not being reoccupied with 3,000 police planning posts. There were two incisive pension reforms, and a minister of civil servants who belonged to your group has decided to lose massive income for the police. We still have work to do today that we can correct this. – This only for the memory and for the rework of history. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Director-General for Public Security Kogler has said that it will ensure that the time spent is appropriate and that the topography and the situation and the loads of the services will also be checked, including the size of the services. We have already mentioned this today. If I have a size of the department, where I have four colleagues, three of whom are not present due to night shift, illness or training, and I then have a police officer at the department, how should this work? [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Darmann.]] And there it is quite superior to deal with what you can do. And if there is security, and if Mrs. Minister has now stressed, there will be no more services with fewer than four police officers, because they are simply no longer to handle, and if Mrs. Minister says it will also be so that the police will not be there for a savings programme insofar as the police are on the street, stay in the district and do not have to go away, then, I think, this is an approach that should be discussed. We also know, however, that in some districts, in some cities and in some municipalities administrative tasks have been done, where there are its own regulatory offices, which have simply taken over administrative tasks. However, we also know very well that this was discussed in the Austrian Convention, where, in the end, the municipal and the municipal government gave him a rejection and that was no longer followed. So the police are supposed to stay in federal administration. The comparison between Munich and Vienna was used and already discussed in detail today. – Yes, Munich has only 25 large police stations, and the Enlightenment Rate in Munich is a better one. And why should we not also improve within the framework of the police? And now I would just like to go back to the Vienna North constituency and briefly highlight the situation. I am convinced that it cannot be the task of a programme to make exclusive closures, but it must also be considered how a cityscape develops. Floridsdorf and Donaustadt alone have 311,000 inhabitants. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a city as big as Graz. And we will grow even further in the future. If I only look at the sea town of Aspern, the development field Donaufeld and the development field Leopoldau, I have to say that the population will grow by 120 000 people alone in the Danube city and in Floridsdorf, which corresponds to the population of a city like Linz. And speaking of closures, for me as a Floridsdorfer and thus Vienna MPs, is not questionable either, because here you simply have to think about it so that the relationship fits. It needs a customized security package. And I also think that Mr. Mayor Häupl is right when he asks for a security concept, Mrs. Minister. If this is fulfilled, then there is a need for reasonable discussion, an objective need assessment and a decision based on material criteria. It is also necessary to provide an optimal training and training for colleagues from the police and equipment for police officers who are in line with the current state of the art. You should think about it. But only closures alone cannot be the concept. That we continue to demand fair payment for the police is a good thing and also shows the value. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] And so we will continue to work in this direction, in the sense of the population and in the sense of the police.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e6060	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Hammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e6081	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! This current hour gives us the opportunity to talk again about the facts, to put the facts on the table, to argue the subject objectively and to reject the permanent blue uncertainty practices. They all know – and this is what the data objectively say – that crime is effectively being fought in Austria and that security in Austria is a very high level. And this is also due – and I would like to expressly say so – to reforms in the interior resort in recent years and above all to the good work in the interior and the police. Statistics clearly say: When 640 000 crimes were reported in 2004, we are currently at around 500 000. We know that, in the area of cyber-crime in particular, unfortunately, there has been a marked increase – which is also being fought – but still have a significant reduction in the rate of crime. However, the sense of security of the population depends not only on these objective data, but mainly on the subjective sense of security – and this in turn depends on many environmental factors. One of the main environmental factors is that policy provides stability and security. What you are doing is uncertainty, and I therefore strongly advise you to do away with this policy of small and medium-sized enterprises, for it is a matter of urgency. They're just helping to insure people and startle them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. New builder: That's nonsense!]] You have been addressed several times today to your responsibility, so I would also like to take a look at the past of your political argumentation about the panic you have spread in the opening of Schengen, at the EU's opening. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Kitzmüller and Mr Neubauer.]] That was a pure panic, did not occur, as the factual figures also prove. This modernisation programme, which has been carried out by the Minister of the Interior, is an essential security programme, in no case a savings programme, because it adapts to the changed framework conditions and is absolutely assured that in the districts the number of police officers remains the same and more specialists come to the regions. This will increase operational activity, reduce administrative activity, and ensure that the presence on the streets is reduced. But I also say that you should stop your double strategy. They ask for reforms on the one hand, stand there and quote the Court of Auditors, and, on the other hand, when the Court of Auditors' proposals are implemented, you are against them. This double strategy is absolutely unacceptable. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The police can work even better through even better use and ensure people's safety. I can tell you from my own experience that this panic that you are doing with the service closures is absolutely inappropriate. In my home community itself the Gendarmerieposten was detained many years ago. I say that, of course, it is not pleasant for a local politician and that is where you have to deal fairly with each other. This has also happened accordingly. [[Calls of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] But believe me one thing: This was not the big issue for the population. Instead, there is a large police post for the whole region – we are a peripheral region – and believe me, the population feels safe and is very satisfied with the work of the police. This was not the big issue because people understand these reforms. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is important that the population is fully informed, informed in a factual way – not how it operates panic – and that the communities are accompanied accordingly. I consider the concept, the community package with the municipal support points to be extremely desirable, a very good alternative, it is also a model for other communities. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gartelgruber]] And it is important to ensure that the communities and the citizens continue to have their contacts. This reform brings more security to Austria and its citizens, so it is absolutely to support and absolutely counterproductive and condemn your panic.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e6155	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Hauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e6187	Good morning, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate spectators in front of the televisions! I am probably the only mayor here in the High House, in whose home community a police department was detained, as happened to me in St. Jakob in the Defereggental. And I should like to say a little out of practice here, because the situation on the ground, ladies and gentlemen, is completely different. If I summarize your speech and that of ÖVP and SPÖ, I can get it to the point. It reads: Everything's getting better! – Madam Minister, I may ask you: If everything gets better, why didn't you look for the conversation with the mayors, with the communities, with those affected on the ground? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's the easiest thing to do when things get better. The communication was simply not available at all. They simply passed over the people concerned, the population, the communities, the mayors in the proverbial sense. They have also disregarded Parliament. I can only remind you very briefly that before Christmas I brought in a parliamentary request concerning the post closures. I've been on the 22nd. January get your answer to the question, in which you tell me that you do not yet know which posts are locked up and what the future security concept is to look like. Seven days later, the concept is available. They close 122 police stations in Austria, in East Tyrol three out of six offices – three of which remain just now – including the branch to which I am still to speak, in which no one service remains. And you tell me seven days before, you don't know the concept. There really is a gross disregard for Parliament here. [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. May. Korun.]] If, as you have done in the past, you repeatedly call for cooperation, that means communicating, then that means dealing honestly with each other and not letting parliamentarians die stupid, just as you have caused mayors and colleagues throughout Austria to die stupid. Mr. Loacker, the mayors were partly informed from the media that their police station was locked up. As a affected mayor of my home town of St. Jakob, I received a call half an hour before the closure of our police department, stating: We'll be locked up! There have been colleagues in Tyrol – that is, colleagues from the ÖVP – who have also complained mediaically about having to learn about the “Kronen Zeitung” that their police positions are being locked up. For example, the colleague Paul Hauser in Matrei am Brenner notes the following – I quote from the “Kronen Zeitung”: A secret has been made out of the police closures for weeks, and then you have to learn it from the media. It's just wet. - Quote. This is the situation that is absolutely unbearable: If you need to know, as a mayor affected by a call or by the media, that the police department is simply locked up. This is how communication cannot work. If you are now blaming the Freedom Party, that is not at all true. The protests of the mayors concerned – whether red, black or my littleness as blue mayor – go across the population. Your own mayor complains to you that these post closures do not fit at all. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Our mayors in the Defereggental valley – for the explanation, we are a high alpine valley, consisting of three communities, Hopfgarten, St. Veit and St. Jakob, and are known by snow; in recent weeks you have probably come to know that we have plenty of snow; we live from tourism, we are in the middle of the National Park area, so we are simply a high alpine valley with thriving tourism – one locks the only service, although we also have a border crossing towards Staller Sattel. And you didn't even find it worth responding to a letter from us mayors. Mrs Minister, we are still waiting for the letter. And now to the actual reconnaissance. ==References====External links== In February, a letter from the National Police Director, Tomac, will tell us what the future concept looks like. It is noted here that on the situation, on the demographics, on the topography and on the distance and above all on the Gional requirements should be considered and police services based on these facts should be locked down. Mrs. Minister, this applies to St. Jacob in the Defereggental, both as regards the situation as regards topography as regards the altitude as regards the distance in terms of accessibility. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] So you disagree with yourself here. Actually, you should immediately make “Kehrt Marsch!” today and say: Yes, in St. Jakob in the Defereggental, due to the argument of your national police director, the police department remains.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e6284	Mrs Mag. Korun. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e6305	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen on the ranks and in front of the screens! It is not permissible to say that we must put together as many services as possible or close as many services as possible, nor is it permissible to say that it must not be closed any service as the liberals have for a long time been propagating. I am not only saying this as a Member of this House, but I am also saying this as a concerned citizen who has been broken in. That was under black and blue, and the police who came told me: [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: But we can't do that!]] [[Cheerfulness at ÖVP and FPÖ]] Unfortunately, we cannot come again to find fingerprints, because we are overburdened and do not have enough colleagues. So we need a little more differentiation in the debate than it always is. This differentiation has been tried by a number of colleagues here, partly with success. But I would also like to address the Members of the Government. When it comes to the question of how safe people feel about how safe citizens feel, this hack is because of: You are guilty; no, you are guilty; we know better; no, we know better!, miss out on the place. This is also the political frustration that we have been experiencing for a very long time – not only on security, but also on various other issues – when citizens say that one should finally get away from the party hack, finally put concepts on the table and also see the concepts, suggestions and considerations of the others not through the party glasses, but look at where it makes sense and where not. [[Abg. Kickl: You even have a party eyeglass calendar!]] My colleague, Peter Pilz, has specifically referred to several communities, and we must look at them again. For it makes no sense to say: Let us close as much as possible and put together as much as possible, nor does it make sense when each service is taboo and no service may be closed. In the Styria, the closure of Wildalpen, Hieflau and Gußwerk will lead to an unscathed distance of 70 kilometres in the future. Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP! I am sure that you also feel that it is totally unresponsible to create a distance of 70 kilometers without police care. No one would want that from us – no matter if this is in Vienna, Styria or Carinthia. We also criticise many of the concrete closures, as well as in Lower Austria. I do not really understand the so-called security concept of the ÖVP or the Federal Government. In many places, especially in smaller communities, the village politician, the village politician, is supposed to disappear, but at the same time you are promoting that more and more surveillance cameras are being installed in the public space. How is that supposed to work together? Can you explain this to us, please? Skill Do you make the effort to explain this to the National Council, but also to the people, to the citizens? – From an ÖVP-college, I came to see if I'm afraid. [[Abg. Rädler: Are you scared?]] - No, I'm not afraid, my colleague. I was afraid after I broke in and the police told me, unfortunately, under black and blue: Actually, we can't really do much, we're under-occupied. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] You should take that seriously, too. Many of you speak abstractly here. But unfortunately, it is something different for those who know what it means when it is broken into their own home and who know the uncertainty you have when you experience it. What will also be one of the consequences of this reform – once again, not by standard, but by looking at it in detail – is that thinning will continue in rural areas. There is no chance, and not for nothing, of concern to the citizens concerned, because if you create a 70-kilometer line without police care, then this is the completely false recipe against the thinning of public space, as far as the infrastructure is concerned, but also as regards security. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] Last sentence: The plans therefore need to be re-adjusted; for many police services they make sense, not for many others. We would therefore recommend that you look at this again in detail, Mrs Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e6387	Mr Ertlschweiger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e6408	Ladies and gentlemen in the gallery! Ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the TV devices! Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! As we have already heard in today's debate, we cannot do everything about a comb on this issue, but I can give you one thing: Whoever saves in safety, he cuts himself into his own flesh. If the closure of 122 police posts planned by the Ministry of the Interior in Austria is actually implemented in this form, this would be a blow in the middle of the face, especially for many Burgenlanders. In my home country, eleven services are affected, and in total we have 63 posts, i.e. every sixth police station would be closed. My home town of Pöttsching in Mattersburg is also affected. Ladies and gentlemen! Don't misunderstand me. I am aware that savings are necessary and make sense. I am also aware that savings measures are always linked to pain. It makes no sense only to save our citizens in our country. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Saving the safety of our children is the wrong way. A small example: Until now, there are ten planning posts at the police station in Morbian, at the post in Rust there are seven planning posts, so a total of 17 officials. However, after the planned merger, only twelve officials are still in service in Rust. Now let me think: The Rayon is getting bigger. The officials are getting less. How can this bill go together? [[Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz: I'm going to PISA!]] The Burgenland cannot be compared with other federal states from the topography. We are characterized by the eastern opening, and the often smiled subjective sense of security actually exists in Vienna. I know from my own experience, believe me. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] It is a difference, Mr President, whether in a district such as Mattersburg, where the number of burglary thefts and the invading crime has increased sharply, whether the officials are present in the communities or not in the future. It's a difference when I see as a car driver in the early days an official who regulates traffic in front of the folk school or not. Let me say this as a double family father who sees it every day when he brings his two children to kindergarten: Whether to play a sound file. You believe me now or not, I have a better feeling when I see the officers. I have a better feeling when I see how the police go on patrol in remote alleys. Why? – Because these officials are not only visible to me, but also to all Ganovers, Raser et cetera. [[Cheerfulness of Deputies Dr. Mlinar and Dr. Zinggl.]] If this planned police post closure is implemented in the way, then the number of crimes in my home community will rise, I trust to claim here and today. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Not only do I believe that, but many people believe it. A signature action initiated by me against the closing of the police station in my home community shows how much the people are burning under the fingernails. I went from house to house and heard the concerns and fears of the people. And let's say one thing: The concerns and fears of the people are great. You can't shave everything about a comb here, let me emphasize it again. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] But what is annoyed by me, especially as a Turkish Member of this House, is the voting behaviour of some of my colleague colleagues in Burgenland. ==References====External links== In December of last year, Parliament voted against a motion for a resolution on the red and black barrage of police services. It is not understandable to me as a Burgenländer! Red, black, green and NEOS have done this. Therefore, I now explicitly ask my colleagues in Burgenland: Why can't you, as a Turkish MP, jump over your party treasures in such a delicate question and vote for the benefit of people in the Burgenland?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I urgently call on you to ask seriously once again the sensibleness of this closure action. If you succeed in actually increasing the police presence in the communities which you have fully announced, I am the first to stand here and pay you respect. Please teach me on this question really a better one. But at this point, I have to say stop these police station closures! [[keeping the police's winkkele in height]] [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Please teach me on this question of a better one! Now I think it's like Goethe: The message I hear well, I alone lack faith! – Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e6502	Mrs. Federal Minister Mag. Mikl- Leitner has spoken again. I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time should not exceed 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e6523	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Yes, if one decides to plan and implement reforms, then it takes courage. Yeah, and that's where it's called putting in some kind of criticism. Reforms in particular are in itself that there are always those who criticize some measure. And I'm going to put this criticism in, too, because I'm 100% convinced that this reform will make us more secure for citizens. Please allow me to comment as follows: I am firmly convinced, no matter what communication strategy, the way of communication or the time you chose, there would have always been criticism. And so it was so important to me that we offer the security package and are permanently in dialogue with those communities affected by it. I would also like to thank you for all your recommendations. But with all my appreciation to everyone, I ask you to understand that I rely on the national and international security experts, but above all on the experts of my home, who, with a lot of expertise and with a great deal of fine feeling, have launched and planned the new service structure – not according to their will, but according to very clear criteria, such as consideration of topography and infrastructure, area expansion, accessibility and, above all, of course, proximity to the citizen, and above all, personal protection of our police officers. You all know, the police are enjoying the greatest confidence. No other institution enjoys such confidence as our police. And you will probably not assume that we are planning and implementing a reform for the police, where we are weakening this trust. No, we only carry out reforms to strengthen this confidence in the police. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek: Trust in the Ministry of the Interior is weakened!]] And this reform has a goal: greater security for citizens! You can check this in a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e6567	Mr Mag. Alm is now coming to the fore. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e6588	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I would like to say a little bit about the information we, as Members of this House, have been confronted with in this matter. ==References== In January 2014, Ms. Minister's issue of orders to develop the detailed concept of service structure adjustment and coordination with the organized units and the external institutions concerned took place. ==References====External links== January, the BMI invited us to an information meeting. In a 15-minute section we were informed by two friendly officials about the objectives of the project. Of course, we had a number of questions about this, including when the planning on the aggregation of the services was completed. That should go fast. “In a few weeks,” I thought, the formulation. We would also be interested in how long this project was in preparation, or when one realized that the current structure no longer meets the requirements. This isn't happening from today to tomorrow. If the police closes over 100 shifts, someone must have realized that it would be useful to do so. We have already received no answer to this question. On the question of the concept we have been handed out this DIN A4 page. [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] I should rather say: this DIN A4 sheet, because it is also printed on the back. Not even a week later, on 28. January, we were then allowed to learn from the newspaper what towns were affected by the closures. Now you're probably wondering: Why does a Member of Parliament tell us about the opposition, but he cannot seriously assume that he can expect information? - Yes, I think I can do that. I think it's a bearer's debt on your part. But even if I should be so naive to believe that, and leave this information aside, I must say: There are a few points you should consider as a government. And that's... We MEPs also communicate your plans. And no matter if you want it or not, you can't use the media to smuggle it over to us. The mayors and councillors, who were equally not involved, are also multipliers on this issue. And we can only pass on what we know. The availability of information is also extremely modest on the BMI website. With this process you undermine one of your six main areas of work: increasing the subjective sense of security. They reach exactly the opposite! Name: They put on the FPÖ an elfmeter, and the FPÖ endeavors honestly to increase the subjective sense of personal insecurity as it has always done, and to address threats where none are at all. [[Abg. Gartelgruber: What?- Oh, my God!]] That's what we've seen today. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] You yourself are guilty if you continue to be driven by the FPÖ on this issue. In principle, it would have been very easy to involve us in the matter, Mrs Federal Minister. In principle, we are in favour of the measures, but above all the objectives behind them – with the restrictions that Alev Korun and Peter Pilz have brought along. A reorganisation to optimize performance and to reduce management in favour of higher specialisation is supported by us. There's no staff being dismantled. On the contrary: There will be more police officers in growing communities. In concrete terms: in Vienna. But that does not mean that we remain uncritical. It is also planned that the video surveillance will be expanded. The identification system should be extended. And there is a need to ensure that the data that has been recorded will be deleted immediately after the comparison has been made, so that no one comes up with the idea of creating motion profiles. The expansion of ARGUS 2 can only be done under strict data protection criteria. If it is then in the strategy "INNEN.SICHER.2014" that the storage of stock data is "indispensable condition of success" in "essential areas of the fight against crime", then we are already reporting resistance to this position now and here. In this context, however, we see it positive that the development of relevant professional and leadership careers is planned. While training specialists in the field of cyber security is not necessarily a timely response to the appearance of the Internet, it is better now than later. Cyber security is not expressed in data storage, but on the contrary: No data will be collected, but it will prevent data from being collected. It is about the proportionality of these measures. This concerns data storage of stocks in general, but also ARGUS 2 and the other expansion of video surveillance in particular. Measures restricting the freedom of citizens must always be examined as to whether they are at all necessary and appropriate for the solution to the problem and whether they are, as an intervention in the self-determination of people, proportionate to real problems. This consideration must be carried out in each individual case and again and again retroactively. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] This will not always be easy, but the principle applies: In doubt for freedom!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e6645	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[12:29:18]] Objections against the agenda as set out in § 50(1) GOG
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e6669	We are now entering the debate on the application of the Rules of Procedure. As already indicated, the speaking time is 5 minutes each. First, Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e6696	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! In the last week, the agenda for the two parliamentary days was set in one of the most pleasant and constructive atmospheres, as you are accustomed to. After the beginning of the meeting, which was only scheduled for 11 a.m. today, especially with regard to Members arriving from the Federal Republic of Germany, it is a very normal thing that a current hour will first be held. And as a first item on the agenda, the importance should be to negotiate what all Austrians will feel in their stock exchange from the first of March, namely all the changes relating to the corresponding increases in taxes and fees, which the Federal Government wants to break in with Austrians, so that in a prominent place the Austrians are also interested in. It's also been chordd. And in this form, the agenda was adopted by common accord in the Presidency. Then, on Friday, we reached the Parliamentary Directorate's request from the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs.He would like to inform the House about the current events in Ukraine – events that we naturally perceive with concern and interest. This, of course, also affects matters. the Foreign Minister, and it is clear that, in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, he has the right to speak and reply to the House for areas outside his territory. There is no objection either. Only: The question now arises where to use this business regulation. We've been researching and learning that Federal Minister would be in the house shortly. I do not know what is so urgent that this statement has to take place today, so that the debate and decision-making are being pushed back, as far as possible, on the important issues of Austria such as tax and tax increases. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ as well as with representatives of the Stronach team.]] We are reminded that, as far as possible, things that this government is concerned are not being torn in front of the curtain and that one prevents people in Austria from getting to know about debates and debates, especially on television screens, as far as possible unfiltered and directly possible. It is a fact that on ORF III – which I must say that this transmitter is doing quite excellent educational work; that is also said here – this time is being sent, but we also know very well that many Austrians have not yet learned to appreciate this station. [[Congratulations with FPÖ, Greens and Team Stronach]] Perhaps this is changing; at present it is not. We therefore believe that it would be necessary to hold decisions and debates on such important issues at a transparent time. And then tomorrow would be a particularly appropriate time for that. The agenda tomorrow, of course, also contains important things: There is a question to the Federal Chancellor, and there is also the Green Report, which is of course very important for agriculture, for this so important segment in Austria, but what interests all Austrians are the increases in taxes. That is why this would be our proposal. This would also be in line with the right of a member of the government to make statements here, and I do not know what the current statement will be. I've seen: The latter, where Mr. Bundesminister Kurz spoke out, was a “profile” interview that he has already published today. And I also saw a headline in a German newspaper where: ‘Ukraine: Just before the collapse” – not the Federal Minister was meant to be short, but obviously the time factor. [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] Otherwise, we heard nothing new about him, except that he was with Klitschko a week ago. In other words, you could satisfy our curiosity in a different way. But if he wants to come today, we want to give him the opportunity. But at the same time – and this is the content of our objections – we want Agenda items 2 and 3 – to be withdrawn from the agenda today, especially at TOP 3. And if there is a corresponding majority, then these two points should be put together on tomorrow, because the Austrians not only have the right to take a picture at an attractive time of sending about the innovations in Ukraine, which the Federal Minister will give us just now, but also, in particular, the right to find out at an attractive time, which will be reflected in payments or in additional burdens on them from this Federal Government.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e6769	Next come Mr. Klubobmann Mag. Arbitrators to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e6792	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Rosenkranz, just the question of how today's agenda should look, we discussed it in the President-in-Office. And the sequence, as it is present here today, was also decided – with the exception of a request from the Foreign Minister to make a statement here on the current situation in Ukraine. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I believe that even at the time he made his request, the situation in Ukraine was less up-to-date than today, on the day we discuss it, because much more has happened over the weekend. [[Abg. Kickl: Maybe something's going on today too!]] Nor does it harm the Austrian Parliament if the Foreign Minister comes here and explains what the EU is up to, what this means from an Austrian point of view and what all these questions mean. You must not forget either: Ukraine is not as far away as you do, but the border of Ukraine is much closer from Vienna than when you drive to Vorarlberg. That is, such a conflict, where a country is sinking in a civil war to discuss here, I think it is both right and necessary. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] But to say one very clearly: The use in Parliament has always been that, then if a member of the government wants to make a statement on a current situation – and that the situation in Ukraine is very up-to-date – at the beginning of the agenda, no one will be going to argue about it. [[Abg. Kickl: It's still up to date tomorrow!]] This is a normal way of doing things here in Parliament. By the way, this was also the case at the time when you had government responsibility from the FPÖ. Responsibility is a relative term in this context – but where you have been taken by the FPÖ in the government. The same was done for the blue members of the government. That is to say, the Usus, who then paid for, should also apply today. [[Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz: Agreed!]] But I also say: The trick that you now believe, now you're putting down the tax-change law at once, everyone has looked through. And I'll tell you here, too: It is true that we are now adopting the tax-amendment law, because there are essential points for greater tax justice in it. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] There are points where large companies are also affected, where the relocation of corporate profits is impossible, where profit-shifting is prevented, and where what we know about Amazon and as Starbucks phenomena is made impossible in the future. This is to be decided today. And that you want to move it to the Sankt-Nimmerleins Day [[Deputies Mag. Darmann and Dr. Walter Rosenkranz :To morrow!]] There is no move on the agenda, there is only one stop, and a stop [[Call the FPÖ:Tomorrow!]] But that's not a move request, but it's a drop-off request that's available here, so you just need to read the title to know that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ:Tomorrow!]] Perhaps you can go to a meeting once – it's not about your hypo-desaster debt anyway, but it's just about the agenda – maybe you can give yourself a bit more civilized here. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] By the way, you have a strange view of media publicity. I think that just as many people who are looking at our debate now on ORF 2 say: I'm interested in the tax-change law! and also look at ORF III. [[Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz: Check out the statistics at ORF III!]] To get rid of the feeling, you want to hide something here: I ask all viewers on the Austrian televisions, afterwards, after switching to ORF 2, to ORF III to follow up the further debate here. Then people will see that you don't have concepts for the future of Austria at all, but you will benefit in truth if you have less public. And we don't want to. More public is the best! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: That would make the cap much better!]] Let's stay on the agenda as it is. Then we can decide everything.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e7003	Mr Mag. Kogler is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e7024	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! First: It is the essence of objections debates, Mr. Klubobmann Schieder, that it is obviously not that way, otherwise there would be no objection debate – that is counter-dictorial. [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ.]] Secondly, the Green Group is able to accept the request of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and in particular the reasons given by the previous speaker, Mr Rosenkranz, for this is precisely two things. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Of course, it is good – and I would like to expressly praise this once – if we here in the House discuss more foreign policy, important and also urgent, just too dramatic, also and especially from a European political perspective – I do not want to agree on this will of the Liberal Group at this point, not at all, and therefore the matter is a matter of consideration. We are glad that Mr Foreign Minister has declared himself here, and we also want a decent debate. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: It's for him too!]] Interesting is only the short part of the list of speakers, which then appears later on to this area. In fact, we are debating the objection for longer than the statement made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. That's just by the way. [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: This is a short debate!]] But be it. When it comes to the events in Ukraine, what we have to observe and what the role of the European Union and, again, of Austria within the European Union, might have led to the fact that one of the opposition parties would have called for this statement. In so far as: Yes, it is good that this explanation is made. That's exactly what we're saying – not that something gets confused! Perhaps the clubman of the other government party will then be able to prepare a little better so that this slinging course of the colleague is no longer followed by the SPÖ. In other words, it is the opposite: We have nothing against this possibility being used either today or tomorrow. – But it would be better tomorrow, because, honestly, so important would not even have taken the head of government to believe that the issue in the Austrian Parliament needs to be discussed today at 1 p.m. and can't be dealt with tomorrow at 10 a.m. or 10.15 p.m., as if otherwise the course of history would change! If you'd convinced us, I'd be the first to argue that we'd do it this way: Minister for Foreign Affairs In short, everyone is going to fail, and then, as it were, we are taking action against the change in history. However, since this is not to be expected, I would suspect – and now the unpleasant thing comes into play – that this change in the agenda will be taken exactly to that point – I am not using the expression ‘abused’ – in fact, to move the very, very important debate on the tax-change law quite far back, namely in the knowledge that there will be a urgent request. – That was to be expected in hectic times like this, and of course it is. And then the debate on the tax-amendment law will take place sometime thereafter. What's this about? This is a law in which the government could not go fast enough from January onwards, the necessarily with shortened assessment periods and what do I know had to disappear through the committee – and no information persons! It has still been asked for the education of persons – the idea came from the Stronach and the NEOS team – with the aim of listening to opinions from different people. It was not possible to do all this because a committee meeting was needed quickly – and by the way, this plenary session is taking place today, so that the law can be passed on 1st. It will be possible to enter into force on 1 March. - It's all right. Madam President, I now allow myself to deal briefly with the matter, as Mr Klubobmann Arbitrators have done the same, and on the way in which the suspicion is then nourished that this is to be imagined. I'm right about that, as far as you've described it. There is also a lot of our agreement, namely, where it is about contributing to greater tax justice in several small points – the squirrel nourishes itself once and for all. We do not want to recognize this in the matter, but the main background is quite another. The change in taxes was the first opportunity to discuss the budgetary situation once again, and thus several holes – from the budget to the mortgage and back again. It's supposed to take place late when it comes to you, but tomorrow you'll be able to get it back. The second point is the matter with the creative entrepreneurs, with the founders. That's exactly what it's all about, and that's the main motive why it's been imagined. [[Congratulations with the Greens as well as with representatives of FPÖ, Team Stronach and NEOS.]] You promised something you can't keep. You said that what you had in this draft would be rehabilitated. – Nothing has been rehabilitated! It's all going to be all the same bad. It's supposed to cover up, and that's as late as possible. [[Abg. Tamandl: That's not true at all!]] That is why Mr Kurz comes now and not tomorrow morning, where it would fit better.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e7125	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Lopatka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e7146	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! One could also call the theater that the opposition is performing here: a lot of noise for nothing. [[Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz: We can't say that at the Burgtheater debate either!]] Why do I say that? – It is about 20 minutes of transfer time and whether these 20 minutes are now transferred to FS 2 or to ORF III. [[Abg. Brosz: “FS 2 ”?]] [[Cheerfulness with greens and FPÖ.]] – That’s exactly what it’s all about, because five before one, anyway, ends with ORF 2. And that's why you're doing this vortex? – The question of Ukraine is of great importance to us, and I will tell you why. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] First of all, § 19 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council states quite clearly: “The President shall make it” – if a member of the government wishes to make a statement – “notify the National Council and determine” – the President or, in this case, the President, “at which time the statement is made during the meeting.” It is common practice, for decades, that this statement is made at the beginning of the agenda. This has always been so, because a member of the government will only make a statement if it is convinced that it is an important concern. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] Now I have to tell you the following: When Foreign Minister Kurz – still from Brussels – said he wanted to make this statement, how were the headlines with us? [[The speaker shall keep the respective daily newspaper up to date.]] ‘Slaughterfield Kiev: New election as a way out?”, “Europe’s bleeding wound”, “The Maidan becomes a mass grave” – does all of this matter to us? –, “Kiew is sinking in civil war.” [[Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz: What does this have to do with...?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] This is about Europe doing what the liberals have set out in their programme. I'm telling you, your first guiding principle: “Freedom is considered to be our highest good. Since the bourgeois revolution of 1848, our quest has been for freedom and their defence everywhere where those who have reached their reach are again under threat.” [[Demonstrative applause at the FPÖ.]] What else do you say? - And you're hurting this! [[Abg. Strache: Very good! Thank you for advertising!]] – Klubobmann Strache, listen to me! What do you say about Europe? They say: “We are in favour of a Europe that enables real democracy and respects the powerful, free citizens.” – This should not apply to Ukraine? [[Abg. Strache: We need to pay special attention in Austria!]] [[Demonstrative applause and bravado at the FPÖ.]] Then why are you against the fact that this is exactly what is being discussed today and here? [[No call at the FPÖ]] [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] [[Call the FPÖ:We are not against it!]] Is it indifferent to us what is happening in front of the gates of the European Union? [[Abg. Strache: You should read and study more our program!]] Or do we want to do everything in Ukraine so that what we are doing here today is possible to hold this debate in a freely elected Parliament? The European Union has done great things in the last few days. [[Abg. Brosz: Do you want to read our program?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] However, we are far from the goal, because Ukraine is in a very difficult situation, and I think it is appropriate that Austria too, because of its history, adopts itself particularly. It is not yet 100 years ago when 38 Members from Galicia were sitting here in this House, in the Austrian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, from the airline it is almost as far to Bregenz as to Lemberg. [[Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz: I know now why you want to abolish the notes! Because thematic error is also...!]] And now you want to pretend as if it would not have a right to hold this debate here at the moment to hold this debate. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] [[Interlocutors Kitzmüller and Dr. Walter Rosenkranz.]] Secondly, The tax-change law is quite positive in our view. Why? – I can explain it to you briefly. First point: Austria has managed to get out of the crisis that broke into Europe in 2008 until today, with a three-step step if I may call it that. The first step: Savings in the Ministries. There will be €500 million; difficult enough to make these savings. The second step – also important – is: We must do something about revenue. Da_te You're so excited: What the covenant of revenue will have in this year, and there we were very, very reluctant – I mean, as I say – is € 547 million. - No, that's not nothing, but I'm just saying: [[Abg. Vilimsky: Is nothing anyway!]] We have tried very hard to make as much expenditure as possible. The third step is the reforms. But you're against everything. They're against everything. We have experienced it before at the security debate. You have criticised the reform that the Court of Auditors is always calling for in the field of security. [[Abg. May. Hauser: Mayor!]] [[Abg. Neubauer: Your own ÖVP... that you must not close!]] [[Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz: We heard about this from the ÖVP in the election campaign!]] They are opposed if something happens in the ministries when the administration is saved. And, of course, you are also opposed to any form of our attempts to achieve something on the part of revenue. That is why I say to you: The debate we are now holding with Foreign Minister Kurz is one that distinguishes us from you. We also see ourselves in a European responsibility.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e7437	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make a few comments before I give the floor to Mr Nachbaur, who will then replace my colleague's head on the presidency. I will allow myself to raise this issue, which you are currently debating, in the next presidency. There are a few circumstances that need to be kept apart. Wouldn't today's session take place on a Monday, but on a Wednesday or Thursday: nothing simpler in the world than to clarify it within the framework of a further President. However, there are sometimes circumstances that are different, and on a weekend so far – perhaps we should change this practice – there has been no presidents. [[Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz: Right! That's right!]] Secondly, There was an unfinished round. Five signatures were already on this round, only one signature, namely that of the liberal club director, has failed. You have to respect that too. [[Ah-rufe at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz: Because you wanted to shorten Question Time!]] Thirdly, There have already been situations – please continue to consider – in which we have made the request to ORF 2 longer when it requires importance. This request was not addressed to me. So I think there is a very long list, a chain of – I call it that – unfortunate circumstances, but these should not lead to us having debates on the Rules of Procedure. [[Call the FPÖ:But is permitted!]] Mrs. Club Chairman Dr. Nachbaur, you are speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e7505	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear taxpayers! I also do not agree that the agenda has been changed to address Ukraine before 1 p.m. because I believe that such a valuable transmission time is being used up, which one would actually need to inform citizens about this huge tax package. [[Abg. May. Schönegger: Don't go out anyway! What time is it now?]] [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ.]] This is a huge burden slave that comes to us, and the, very dear government representative, you obviously don't want to show the Austrians. Contrary to my personal style, I'm a little more emotional today, because I'm very upset, and I think most taxpayers are equally charged. People are angry. Apparently it's no different in this country. Rarely was the anger of the people in this country so great, and rarely have the taxpayers been so offended. Unemployment has also never been so high.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e7537	Mrs. Club Chairman, I would just like to draw attention to this: You have to talk about the objections and not the content, although, of course, I allow some points to be mentioned. [[Abg. Kickl: Incorrect!]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e7582	Thank you for allowing it. After all, it is important to me to say: We should talk about Ukraine, but in the afternoon. We are currently facing the largest bank robbery or the second Republic's public asset robbery. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] They take us, the whole opposition, the opportunity that we can express ourselves on these horror taxes. [[New condolences with the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. May. Arbitrators: That's not true!]] With the taxes to be decided today, citizens will be excluded such as Christmas geese and entrepreneurs will be punished for their services. But, Madam President, I take your objection first. I am happy to address Ukraine now, even before 1 p.m. I would like to say: Austria has supported the Ukrainian oligarchs who are on the side of Yanukovich, and I am telling you why: The Kluyev brothers control one of the largest Eastern Ukrainian mixed companies. When they wanted to buy the bank Burgenland, because of the threat of dubious East Industrialist in Austria – in order to express it carefully – a cry went through Austria. Supervision has not contradicted. There was no examination of these persons whether they are “fit and clean” et cetera. In Germany, Eastern Ukrainian industrialists are not accepted as buyers of the German banks. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: What does this have to do with the subject?]] [[Abg. Krainer: I do not recognize the connection to an objection! It's getting more and more absurd!]] The Bank Burgenland was sold to GRAWE for good reason at the time, as it represented a long-term successful and, above all, stable perspective for the Bank Burgenland and also for the country Burgenland, because the country Burgenland, like almost all countries, is deeply in the bank. Now the ECJ is coming – a new judgment of February – and says that national liability is totally irrelevant. They would rather have sold the bank to the Kluyev brothers because they offered a better price – with the argument that counts the purchase price and the country's liability is completely wretched. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Recently, State Secretary Steßl said in an interview that it was necessary to freeze the accounts of oligarchs. - That's exactly these people! I just wonder how the Secretary of State wants to see this. They did not tattoo “oligarch” on their foreheads. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. Dr Wittmann: Speak to the Rules of Procedure!]] But the ECJ statement that the country's liability is completely wretched and the purchase price is actually the main thing that counts is exactly the opposite of what one wants to enforce at European level, namely that the country's liability must cease. This is a completely absurd judgment, just as it is senseless to block the valuable television time before 1 p.m. with the Ukraine theme instead of talking about the tax addicts. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team, as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] My final sentence: The expenditure-based state never deals with citizens' taxpayers' taxpayers' money. Every year there is a reliable budget hole. But higher revenue has never led to a balanced budget in this country, but still to higher expenditure. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: thematic failure!]] We finally need a debt brake in the Constitution, combined with a tax maximum rate. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Wrong speech!]] In fact, I am not surprised that more and more citizens are being considered and even asked in serious daily newspapers whether the taxpayers should perhaps deduct the debts they have not caused from their income tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e7754	Next speaker: Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e7775	I just want to talk about the matter now, because this is about the objections. [[Abg. Wenninger: That was already the case, just the wrong thing!]] - That's right. It was all about it, just the wrong thing. On Friday, we all heard the reports of dozens of dead people, of civil war-like situations in Ukraine – a country that partially sent Members to this House until 1918, which is therefore not quite far away, but we all know that the Western Ukraine is closer to Vienna than Vorarlberg. So not that the Vorarlbergers would be beyond us as the Ukrainians, but we are talking about our immediate neighborhood here. That a foreign minister says that this situation is so critical that he wants to report to Parliament, I think it is right and absolutely supportive. This has not only been seen by the Social Democrats and the People's Party, but I can quote the minutes of a meeting of the club directors: Statement by the Foreign Minister, pursuant to § 19 on “Current situation in Ukraine” and debate: ==References== Presidential Conference was announced that Foreign Minister Shortly at the plenary session on 24 April. A statement on ‘Current situation in Ukraine’ was issued on 1 February. SPÖ, ÖVP, Greens, Team Stronach and NEOS agree with the proposal to make the statement with the debate on this to the top of the agenda. Only the FPÖ was against and wanted the statement to take place after the submissions of the Financial Committee. - Quote. That is why I am now surprised that there are a number of parties that have still said on Friday, yes, that is all right, which have said here together with the government groups in the House, we are putting the agenda on board, and now for purely populist reasons, what they have said on Friday, and here we are delivering a completely inaccurate and populist discussion. The accusation that we would conceal anything is also incorrect, because we don't want to hide anything from the tax-change law at all. We are very, very proud of a number of points in it. That is why, Madam President, I should like to briefly mention the essential points: Absorbability of manager salaries over €500 000 is deleted, i.e. must be paid from taxed profits. This means that if a group considers that it has to pay 1 or 2 million € salaries to individual managers, then there is now a 25 percent surcharge on these salaries for the parts that exceed 500 000 €. We don't want to hide that, because we think it's right and important. The second point is that group taxation is limited in such a way that it is no longer possible to calculate losses in countries with which there is no exchange of information with Austria with profits in Austria that these unscrupulous company depreciations from 1st century onwards. But we do not think that is important and right. That the Golden Handshakes are no longer tax-privileged with 6 percent, but are normally taxed with income tax – why should we have a reason to hide this? We have been supporting this for many years, and the former Minister of Finance has explicitly brought it into the government negotiations. We have supported this, and we want to decide today. There is nothing to hide at all, but we stand for it. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] Mr Rossmann said in the Financial Committee that the measures we are taking in the tax-change law on profit-shifting are unique across Europe and an absolutely significant and successful point that the Federal Government is implementing here. We are the first in Europe to take a legal action to prevent this shift in profits in tax havens. Is that what we're supposed to be doing? No, we are proud that we are doing this first in Europe to have an answer to the fact that the companies are constantly committing the money to the tax. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Furthermore, we can also say that we also increase the bank levy by over €90 million, because we believe that banks should contribute to the increased costs that the taxpayer had to pay, which he had to prefer for bank rescues, and that at the end of the day the banks should pay for this bank rescue. That's not what we want to hide, that's something we like to present in the first row, at the best time. But we note that civil war-like situations in the immediate neighborhood are already a reason to debate them here in the National Council, and in so far as I am trying to reject these objections here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e7821	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Meinl-Risinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e7842	Mr President. Dear High House! Right ahead: We agree to the changed agenda for Friday, but we share the concerns and concerns of the FPÖ. That is why I am here in such a doubt about this change in the agenda. You talked about populism, Mr. Krainer. Of course, it is also a kind of populism when one asks a member of the government to go to the house and find the anointing words for a real crisis. This is also a kind of populism. The postponement of the debate on the tax-change law from the time of television, which is already included in a whole series of measures put forward by government parties in order to prevent the debate, the public debate on this real burden on taxpayers. I recall that the assessment period has also been unusually short, especially for such an important subject as the tax-change law, through which additional taxes on Austrians have been paid. But – and I really want to say that with all my heart – I also believe that the developments in Ukraine in recent days, civil war-like states, it was already last week, are really special. As it concerns the immediate neighbourhood of Austria, the European Union, these developments are of vital importance, which is why it is good for the House to put this issue on the agenda and discuss it here. I would also like to point out that as a younger member of the National Council, I can perhaps say that these developments in Ukraine have bound me personally to Twitter until two or three o'clock in the morning. So much about the objections that this is about the valuable television time, the live transmission to ORF 2. Yes, that is right, but the use behaviour of the Austrians in relation to the media has changed significantly. And here I also give FPÖ the way to the fact that we find it quite positive when we get out of the National Council, because it is also a kind of public that is happening here. In conclusion, we are pleased that the Minister comes here voluntarily and says something to Ukraine. We believe that this is absolutely crucial. European policy is also internal policy from our point of view, and therefore a clear yes, but we share the FPÖ's concerns about the fairness of the government parties as regards the changeover to the agenda.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e7890	The next item is the speech by Mr Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e7912	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear ladies and gentlemen! Yes, I think that the current events in Ukraine must also be worthy of the Austrian Parliament, that we should address the statements made by Mr Foreign Minister on this issue. I looked at this very carefully, it's a little bit of the blue showdown here, that you wanted to use these 20 minutes now to postpone this explanation. I have looked at the last legislative period very carefully: We have had ten statements from Federal Ministers during the last period, and all ten statements have always been at the beginning of the agenda. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, this usus, which we have here and which is almost an unwritten provision on the agenda, we should also continue to do so. This is why this measure, which we are already talking about Ukraine at the beginning, is certainly right. This is a whole country, and it is mainly about the people in this country, and it is also about democracy in that country. And especially all of us who have long been committed to this democracy in our history should democracy also be worth talking about in another country. We have heard from several people today how the situation in Ukraine is. Ukraine is not far from us, we have already heard that. I believe that this situation in Ukraine should be devoted to us, because a civil war in Europe, a civil war in which people have been killed, a civil war, where, of course, it is also a question of power and the debate between individual blocks, we cannot leave it uncomplaint, and it is very important that we learn firsthand from the Foreign Minister what the EU is doing here. I can imagine what would have happened if we had not put it on the agenda: There would have been an uproar why we do not debate this issue – and so on and so on. We still have detailed time to discuss the tax-change law today. And especially we of the economy, I say quite honestly, want to talk about this package. On the one hand, we want to say that it is necessary, on the other hand, that some measures for us are definitely related to pain. But it is true that we have a goal in mind, a goal that we all hope will agree on: that we want a balanced budget in 2016, and it is clear that we must take some measures for this purpose. I would just like to say what was very important to us: that there is no substance and property taxation in this area, because if I look at the small and medium-sized enterprises that are in place for transfer over the next ten years, and that is at least 58 000, then they should not be taxed on property taxes and on property taxes. And we have also succeeded in this tax-change law that we prevent this kind of tax. In addition, it is also about 400 000 jobs in these farms, which are to be surrendered. I would like to make one more point about Ukraine, because Austria is also represented in Ukraine with many successful companies, and it is also about their fate. It is about Austrian companies in Ukraine, in addition to all the pain that is being caused to people there, and therefore also about jobs. Our understanding is: What is happening in Europe and around us is also important for Austria, both politically and economically. We can't hide here, and we'll have the debate with the Foreign Minister today, and we'll certainly also have the debate on the tax-change law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e7963	Next item is the report by Mr Kickl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e7984	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It must be a real fear and fear in this country when the parliamentary hangings of SPÖ and ÖVP, in the form of their two clubmen, who until too long have been significant and “blessed” as the State Secretary of the Republic, have acted as hypo if these two rulers are unable to understand simplest facts. This is not at all a matter of talking – Mr. Arbitrators, not talking! – it is not about whether Mr Kurz is speaking here or whether he is not speaking, but about when he is speaking and whether the comments of Mr Kurz are equal to the other things that are at least as important for the Austrian population. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] And here I am at your load package of more than five billion, which you want to clear out today from TV time. That's the case. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Arbitrators: You want to stop it!]] Shortly after today, quite on TV, short could have spoken in the morning, quite on TV, everything no problem. Why don't you want all this if this thing is so important to you? And there you can't argue with the actuality, because: Imagine Mr Kurz speaking here, and something is happening in Ukraine this afternoon, which may bring about a changed situation – then you can combine with your topicality argument, Mr Arbitrator! I am also a little skeptical when it comes to Mr Kurz's comments. I haven't heard them yet, but I'm also experienced, suffering tested. A week ago, there was a statement of the hypo from the relevant representatives of the Federal Government, the Chancellor and the vice-gans. After four years of time 300 million for consultants placed in the sand. And the result was that after that we were as hot or stupid as before, because there was no information. And I believe that even today there will not be much to this statement by Mr Kurz, which we do not already know from the media, from the newspapers or from where. For you can explain this to someone else that Mr Kurz is a central principle of European foreign policy or diplomacy, but it is rather a kind of commercial business that is being conducted there in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs – not just for a short time! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You want something completely different: After all, you only want to clear out the embarrassments from the television era – Mr Schieder, I am with you again –: the embarrassment of broken promises from before the election, the embarrassment of a burden slavery which you set free, although you have promised to make justice. And the most embarrassing thing there is: getting a billion-billion-dollar loads on the way, which is to stop a billion-hole that is supposed not to exist at all. This is the greatest embarrassment and the greatest joke. And I'm already excited how you're going to explain this to the people. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You explained this billion-hole to Fata Morgana and said that all the experts are wrong. And now you're going here and tying up a billion-dollar package to stop this hole that doesn't exist again. You need to explain that to someone! Mr. Schieder, maybe we'll do some kind of memory training together, both of us. Maybe we'll do that, and you can still remember what you said before the election. You and your SPÖ promised before the last election: If the SPÖ is elected, then the hour of those who have always paid for it in the crisis is wrong, and then those who have caused the crisis are asked to check out. That was the central statement of the SPÖ from before the election. [[Abg. May. Arbitrators: That will be today! Today it is decided!]] We know that the SPÖ always says the truth and the SPÖ does not break a promise. All this is always ground in stone, as we know. And now let's see what this billion-dollar package you're putting on here means. This means that the Austrian drivers are the cause of the crisis. That's what it's called if I can believe you, Mr. Schieder. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] When the cause of the crisis is asked to cash out, the drivers are the cause of the crisis – and not a small one at all, because you register twice with the Austrian drivers. Once with the NoVA, with this strange special tax, which is nowhere else, apart from being non-EU law-compliant, but that is what you're trying to do when the cash register rings; you're just raining on it in other areas. And a second time with the motor-related insurance tax, with which you take out the people who have a child at home and are happy that at last a few euros more of family support comes in, the money on the other hand, if they have the wrong to drive a 90-PS car. This is the SPÖ's distribution policy. And then you write “justice” on it. That's a joke! That's raubritism, and that's what you're doing here! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And you want to clear this debate out of television time. That's quite clear. The Austrian smokers must also be the cause of the crisis. Yes, of course, because they are also asked to cash back with an increase in tobacco tax – and with them the Trafikanans, of which we know that they all live a luxury life, at least in the light of the view of social democracy. They also come to the handcushion. The only driving effect you achieve with it, because the money will not be invested in health, is that you boost the smuggling. Also an achievement of social democracy and with it an achievement of the People's Party. Because I'm just talking about the People's Party: Oh, my God, Mr. Lopatka! The economy, you promised, you'll fire. Do you know what you're igniting? [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] Now you unravel the large banks of Vienna from their speculation stories. That's what you're gonna fire! [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: Your time has expired!]] And that's also a kind of lie and manipulation, and you're not right for that to be discussed on TV. That's why the whole theater.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e8095	Mr Kickl, you know that the assignment of the word “lying” directly to a person here is not permitted. I must therefore give you a call for order and ask you, above all, to refrain from doing so in the future. [[Abg. Kickl: I would like to make a suggestion on how to call such a situation correct!]] [[Cry: Untruth! Untruth]] To give you an answer: I would prefer you to argue against this and not to qualify the statement and, above all, not the person. That would be my favorite and, I think, the most correct for all of us. [[Congratulations on MEPs from ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e8148	Yes, of course, the events in Ukraine are important, and of course we should talk about these events here in this House. But the question is: When do we do that? It must be at a time when we are about to discuss a tax-change law here and today, about which it has been called a few months ago, and we are not going to need it, but we have actually been promised tax reductions. This was the SPÖ with its model to relieve the factor of work: 3 billion €, financed by capital charges. – Is that still the point today? Of course it is not the point of reference! [[Abg. May. Arbitrators: Yes, with us already! It was with us before and after the election!]] Not at all! Not at all, Mr. Klubobmann Schieder! Read the Government Convention! It says that by the end of January 2014, a tax reform commission should have been set up to address the question of tax reduction, namely the question of the reduction of the tax rate in the direction of 25 percent. – Is this Commission already here? [[Abg. May. Arbitrator: Yes!]] No, this Commission does not exist because it has not yet been occupied by experts! This is what the Minister of Finance has told us the other day in the Committee on Finance. So don't tell us any shame in there! Stay with the truth once! Don't do what we just discussed: Ask untruth or question lies! Let us find a proper and orderly access to these questions! - I'll be right there. [[Abg. May. Arbitrators: Speak to the Rules of Procedure!]] The ÖVP also made promises, of course, before the election. Mr Spindelegger said: I can't talk about tax increases! – And precisely these tax increases, which are to be decided here today, should not actually take place against this background. [[Abg. May. Arbitrators: Where do the greens actually occur? What would you do without red and black? Don't talk! The whole speech would be empty!]] But now I come to the real topic, Ukraine. I am for that, I have already said that in the beginning to discuss this. However, I am also in favour of giving Mr Kurz a little time to think about the following, and would like to ask him if he has the opportunity to comment on it. It has long been known that the Ukrainian elite of power in Vienna finds a very silent environment to increase its wealth. I can remember a certain oligarch Dimitri Firtasch, who has already met us in the Banking Investigation Committee a few years ago. When we came to the matter of money laundering, this investigation committee was turned off, as you know. A few weeks ago, however, a demonstration of Ukrainians living in Austria took place in Vienna in front of Bank Austria. What was the point of this demonstration in front of Bank Austria? It was also about money laundering. It was because of the fact that a powerful government officer, still at the time, was suspected of money laundering by the name of Andrej Kljuev. And this Mr Andrej Kljuyev, a high government official, is called the “Monster of the Ukrainian Government” by the opposition in Ukraine. He is accused of having organized the violent police operations in Kiev. It's a story. But the money laundering story is already another story. For this Mr Andrej Kljujev, as well as his brother by the way, has an securities deposit at the UniCredit. ==References====External links== February you can read all of this, you can even read the number of this depot. And this Mr Kljuev is accused by the opposition in Ukraine of having money washed abroad, especially in Austria. What happened? ==References== On 1 January, the PEPwatch, a Kiev non-governmental organisation, sent a detailed letter to the Financial Market Supervisory Board in Austria and asked them to carry out further money laundering investigations against Kljuyev and others. I would like an answer from Mr Kurz. I therefore believe that it is necessary to give him time to think about and determine what financial market surveillance has done since the receipt of this letter against these oligarchs and against those people who are likely to try to clean up their money here in Austria. I'd love to know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e8228	The next item is the report by Mr Vetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e8249	Mr President. High house! I am now a member of this House for almost four months, and we are discussing today the most important and comprehensive measure within this four months - probably the most important fiscal policy measure of the entire legislative period. [[Abg. Brosz: That comes with every speech! It's getting longer and longer!]] [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: So you're a hell-seer!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] Maybe. I say, perhaps, because you like to make the big jumps in the beginning. If you do not insignificantly raise taxes today, it will probably be the farthest jump you want to take. But, Mr Lopatka, if you interrupt me here, then you'll scare me, because if you're planning even bigger jumps in tax increases than this one, then that's a bit of a fear-making thing. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: Don't be afraid!]] We are now discussing an aspect in this debate on the application of this important fiscal policy measure to savings flames. This has already begun to shorten the assessment period to two weeks. [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: You don't care about the situation in Ukraine?- Oh, my God!]] We have a law here, which is to enter into force within a few days, namely this week. This means that the Federal Council will continue to deal with it this week, which also means that the law will be signed by the Federal President this week, and this also means that it will be published in the Bundesgesetzblatt this week. A law is obviously to be whipped through at a particular speed. Whatever bothers me, I tell you – yes, it is an example of the whole debate being held on spasms. [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: We have an objection debate!]] [[Congratulations to representatives of the Stronach team.]] If we have 25 laws here, at least 25, if I have not told myself how to discuss income tax law, corporate tax law and other laws, under TOP 3, and have only about half an hour for that, then per law a minute of speaking time for each political group will come into question. And as a drift number four, so that we discuss the flames here, the discussion about Ukraine has been added. Ladies and gentlemen! I see here that the system of yours is that you want to keep this debate on the increase by a billion euros as low as possible – once again – on savings flames. It is really about the impact on many people. It is about thousands, if not tens of thousands of jobs. I am quite different from the previous speaker of the SPÖ. [[in the direction of the Abg. Krainer]] I would not be proud that taxes will be increased. I'm sorry that taxes are being increased. I would be proud if the taxes were lowered today. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] If we make a connection with Ukraine here, I think it is a pity that it is a business regulation that the debate about this important fiscal policy measure is going backwards. If there were to be a consequence between the debate on the taxes and those on Ukraine, I would like, in my capacity as the national defence spokesperson of our group, to ask the government to give Ukraine the opportunity to think about whether it really wants to reduce the national defence budget or whether it would not be better for it not to be reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e8370	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e8391	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen at the gallery! Dear taxpayers at home in front of the TV! High house! Mr President, I am already wondering about your forbearance of the continuing abuses of topics which have been delivered here continuously for three quarters of an hour from this speaker's desk. It's not about Ukraine! It is not about the item on the agenda 1, declaration by Federal Minister Kurz, but about the fact that FPÖ has requested that item 3 be withdrawn from the agenda. That is why we have requested this objection debate. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is not about Ukraine at all, because I would very much like to discuss it with Mr Bundesminister Kurz, whether, if the billions from Russia fail, Ukraine may soon be able to slip under the ESM rescue shield, although it is not even a member of the EU and not even a member of the euro, whether it is there again, as it has been so often in the past, to break EU law. This should be discussed here, this is very important, ladies and gentlemen. Our own budget service – and this is about agenda item 3: The tax-amending law – here in Parliament has looked at the planned changes. And he comes to a more than destructive result in his analysis. This budget service accuses you, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP that they value tax revenue far too high, it also criticises the lack of transparency. I'm just quoting from the analysis of the budget service: The financial impact is only limited from the budgetary point of view. - Quote. Do you know what that means when you translate it from this careful and polite official German into the normal language of business? – That is, in reality, you can’t even calculate the amount of taxes that people now have to pay for and whether the planned changes you are making are worth the effort at all. If the budget service means – I quote in turn –: The basis of calculation is not sufficient to allow the estimates to be plausible, that means that even the experts in the budget service cannot understand the figures of which figures. You're going out on your blind flight in Nirwana of the state tax charge. And if the budget service is talking about neglect of steering effects in the tax estimate, that is, you have no idea what you are doing here and what an impact these tax increases will have on the economy and on consumer behaviour. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is not opposition screaming now, no, these are our own officials from the budget service of Parliament, so the Republic, and they do not leave a good hair on this tax package. It is therefore the most useful and best solution to remove this whole draft from the agenda. In fact, there is no way here to discuss the content of these planned tax increases. That is why we asked the FPÖ for this debate and we want this item to be withdrawn from the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, on what basis do you want to decide on the planned tax increases? – Now I quote the analysis of the budget service again. You probably didn't look at these. For example, the chapter on the breakdown of group taxation: The financial impact of the different measures is not recognizable from the documents, but would be a crucial information for the legislative process. impact not recognizable, important information for legislation? It's legislation, that's us! That's the National Council! [[Call the FPÖ:Not the government!]] [[Counter-call of the Abg. Krainer.]] Our own budget service tells us we can't decide here because of your figures. On the basis of which figures decide You? – That’s incredible what you’re presenting to us today! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But we know how it actually works. The red or black ministerial office, or the red or black party headquarters, will appear, you will have to vote, and then the elected red and black Members will vote. That's how it works in this Republic. I can't explain otherwise why you're making this happen to you, why you're unconversial that this government has not even made the effort to take into account the changes that have arisen from the first draft that has been submitted, which has been amended, to the present amended bill. The numbers that were presented to you at that time are the same ones that are now present again. This has not been recalculated, although substantial changes have now been made. So let your own people treat you. Not with us, and that is why this item on the agenda should be withdrawn from the agenda.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e8455	Mr Haider, you have told me about my forbearance earlier on, which is the subject of the debate. You have just given yourself the proof that, apparently, one cannot talk about a particular form of the agenda, if one does not go into the content too, in order to explain why one should come before the other. – Thank you for the evidence. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Haider's got the thumb.]] Mr Köchl was the last speaker to speak in the debate on the motion for a resolution. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e8496	Appreciate High House! Ladies and gentlemen, even in front of the televisions! Existing government bank, I wanted to say, but there's only a black hole. - Well, be it! It is not a question of whether we want to talk about Ukraine or not, of course, we will talk about it, but it is in this debate that we would like to have structured the order of the items on the agenda differently. [[Abg. May. Arbitrators: No! You want to stop that, don't restructure it! You don't want it!]] I am of the opinion that we cannot let it happen that the tax-change law here is so in the background that today we are almost surrendering to the government's theatre scene, where, under the guise of the debate on the situation in Ukraine, there are substantial strains that threaten the small entrepreneurs in Austria. If you look at this in detail, there are already a lot of things, with the impression: We're all part of a play. There were a few things at the “GmbH light” where there was only great uncertainty and later the ÖVP Economics Federation and the same ones who had just caused uncertainty when the saviors appeared. – This is the point we do not want to let go. It is about the fact that, for example, we do not want to engage in such dizzy compromises in the discussion about the craft bonus, since we are already taking place after the lottery procedure. We already know that the craftsman bonus will benefit only a few and will be done according to the principle of solar promotion – two minutes a year, then the pot will be empty again. There's massive concern. Of course Ukraine is important, but today we also want to address the tax-change law. There is something from the ÖVP that does not call itself “holy” where you always call yourself “Christian-social”, but you are actually a hypocritical party. This hypocrisy is now...
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e8533	Mr President, you know, even if you are not in the House for a long time, that we do not want such qualifications in this House. This is really about an orderly debate and also about the dignity of this House. I must give you a call for order and, above all, urge you to distance yourself from such a choice of words in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e8551	I'm not going to use this word anymore. You will see it anyway if you yourself fall the crucifix in the ÖVP office of the wall due to this...
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e8578	Mr Köchl, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the President has the opportunity, in the case of repeated calls for orders, to withdraw someone from the floor for the whole day of the sitting. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Please don't take me to the brink of this problem!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e8617	They disqualify themselves by the chosen procedure anyway. If you talk about feeling fine here in the course of the security discussion – we have seen it all together today – if you speak of close-up to citizens here, then all the people who watch today will take a picture of you. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: What are you talking about?]] I am referring to the fact that I do not accept that the tax-change law and the horrors that stand in it for thousands of entrepreneurs are in the background today and here with Ukraine cover almost all the burdens and all the horrors. [[Abg. Wöginger: Accept a majority!]] Like in a theatre scene, this seems to me. [[Abg. Wöginger: Accept a majority in this house!]] – Of course, I accept a majority. The majority is temporary, estimated ÖVP. Its majority is 50.5%. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I may have been there for two or three years in the future. At present you still have the majority, but the Austrian population does not give you the majority, even if you are still sitting here with a majority, but that is something else. [[Abg. Wöginger: What was that again?]] We have so many construction sites in this country. In crowdfunding, for example, you have experienced that the Heini Staudinger is messing up. It is not even possible in this country to borrow money if you do not get money from the banks. That's in the background. There is no solution competence on the part of the ÖVP, but financial market supervision is taking action against innovative ideas. I think that's important. Yes, of course we need to discuss this, and then we will discuss Ukraine as well. That's the point now. [[Abg. Wöginger: Don't fit that again!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] - What's wrong? Not always talking in between, it can't be. [[Abg. Wöger: Is it true!]] Please, we are not in the ÖVP club, but in the High House. The debate will be publicly transmitted. Please, don't always call in there! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Wöginger: Teachings!]] Under the rule, it is simply about the Austrian population of this theatre of Red and Black not to be liked anymore, that we Greens are no longer willing to let everything go under the cover of Ukraine. We will discuss the content in detail later today. Now we are dealing with the procedure I would like to question in a massive way. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e8778	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall proceed to the vote. I would ask those Members who want to take account of the objections, i.e. those who are in favour of decommissioning Agenda item 3, to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Therefore, the agenda for today's sitting in writing remains in place. [[13:36:26]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e8821	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[13:36:37]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e9060	The NEOS-Klub has in accordance with § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, the request made by the honourable Member's written question 730/J, which was put to the agenda before the entry into force of the agenda. Meinl-Reisinger, colleagues and colleagues to the Federal Minister for Education, Art and Culture on planning and control defects in the current Burgtheater-Causa. Under the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be carried out at least three hours after the date of entry into the agenda, i.e. at 4:38 p.m. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e9083	It is proposed that the debate on points 2 and 3, 4 and 5 and 7 to 9 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e9108	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block period of 6 “Vienna hours” was unprejudicial according to § 57 para. 3 Z 2 of the Rules of Procedure agreed to give the following speaking times: SPÖ and ÖVP per 81, FPÖ 75, Green 63 as well as STRONACH and NEOS per 33 minutes. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. [[13:38:30]] 1. Point Declaration by the Federal Minister for European and International Affairs pursuant to Article 19(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on “Current situation in Ukraine”
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e9147	We're now on the 1st. Agenda item. Following this declaration, a debate will take place within the meaning of Article 81 of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with this request. I now give the floor to the Federal Minister for European and International Affairs. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e9177	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much for the opportunity for me to report today on a foreign policy situation that is likely to affect us all. Regardless of when this statement takes place, I am glad that there is this possibility. I also believe that there is consensus among all parties that Ukraine and the situation in Ukraine are a subject that we should be dealing with here in Parliament. Whoever sees the pictures on TV or in newspapers is probably inclined to believe it is dealing with events that take place far away from us. Unfortunately, reality looks different from God. Ukraine is only 500 kilometres from our national border, it is an integral part of Europe. [[Abg. May. Kogler: If it were 1,000 miles, would it be better?- Oh, my God!]] For weeks, thousands of people in the center of Kiev have demonstrated, and the government's attempts to suppress the protest movement and beat it bloodyly have gone backwards. In the middle of last week, there was a dramatic escalation of the situation, which claimed dozens of dead and more than a thousand injured. Especially for a young person like me, the situation in Ukraine is probably even more unimaginable. My generation and myself have always lived to grow up in Austria, in a country in which one can freely express one's opinion, in which one is not exposed to police arbitrarily and in which an independent justice protects the rights of every individual. For many people in Ukraine, probably among young people, the European Union is therefore the epitome of freedom, the rule of law and the opportunities for economic development. And I think we must not let these people down, from the point of view of Austria and Europe. [[It was in favour of the ÖVP, as well as of representatives of SPÖ and NEOS.]] I am therefore glad that the European Union did not look away from the beginning, initially focused on means and dialogue, but finally, when the situation worsened, also reacted with great determination and, above all, with closeness. Already at the last Council of Foreign Ministers on 10 October. The European Union has explicitly imposed sanctions in the area on February and has made it clear that it will respond immediately to an intensification of the situation on the ground. After Tuesday’s escalation, a special meeting of the EU Foreign Ministers was convened within a short time and a uniform and clear signal was issued. I would also like to congratulate Catherine Ashton on the fact that this reaction has been clear and closed. I would like to thank all the Austrian authorities who have worked together to ensure, on the one hand, that sanctions can be implemented immediately in Austria, and, on the other hand, I would like to thank financial market supervision for ensuring that the best way to prevent the withdrawal of funds from Austria before the sanctions enter into force. In parallel to the special meeting in Brussels, on behalf of Lady Ashton, three European Foreign Ministers, representing the European Union with the opposition, also negotiated with the government in Kiev and reaffirmed the threatening sanctions directly on the ground. The European Union is constantly accused, and at times not wrong, of having long-term voting processes and of having no common, but only 28 individual opinions on many issues. In this case, it was different. There has been a determined and, above all, a closed European Union in relation to Ukraine, and since then, events in Ukraine have also been overlooked. President Janukovich was deposed by the Ukrainian Parliament, Timoshenko's confidant Alexander Turchinov, was appointed transitional president, and preferred elections were held for the 25th century. It was decided in May. We are relieved and glad that bloodshed in Ukraine has now ended. It is crucial now, however, that we do not give in to the false belief that the situation in Ukraine has been solved. It takes concrete support for Ukraine to support the transformation process and also to strengthen the pro-European forces and the pro-European perspective. Ukraine has a billion-high financial needs. Russia has currently suspended its financial assistance, and I therefore believe it is absolutely right that the European Union should now quickly launch a comprehensive economic package with the International Monetary Fund, the European Investment Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The journey from Catherine Ashton to Ukraine is already a first clear signal. However, two international organisations currently under the Austrian and Swiss Presidency can also make a significant contribution. After the violence of the past days there are not only many dead and many injured, there are also graves in the population. It is therefore necessary to carry out an independent review of the violent operations in Ukraine. We have used our Presidency in the Council of Europe to call on the Secretary-General of the Jagland Council of Europe to make every effort on the part of the Council of Europe, and I am glad that the Council of Europe as the Human Rights Organisation has already addressed a concrete support offer to Ukraine. The OSCE will play an important role in monitoring and supporting the elections taking place in May. In addition to the European Union and international organisations, Austria also has the responsibility and the opportunity to make a direct contribution. On the one hand, we will do this in the humanitarian field, but on the other hand we will probably see the best way to ensure sustainable support for Ukraine in the long term, through the support of the country's young and pro-European forces – not only because the young people were an essential supporter of the protest movements, but also because they are the ones who can bring European values and ideas, respect for human rights and also the desire for the rule of law into Ukraine. I therefore think it is a good signal that we, together with the Austrian Ministry of Science, are acting on the Austrian universities, that we are expanding our offers and cooperation with Austrian universities as part of the Erasmus+ programme, thus giving more and more Ukrainian students the opportunity to spend part of their studies in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In order to ensure that young Ukrainians and Ukrainians can actually come to the European Union, we have also ensured that no visa fees for students, students, NGOs, journalists and also for the scientific exchange of visas for more than three months to Austria will continue to be collected. This means that these groups can come to Austria without any additional financial burden. We have also instructed the Austrian Embassy to speed up the procedures in Kiev, and will also provide additional staff if necessary. Austria also offers concrete assistance in the area of judicial reform and in building the rule of law. In agreement with the Ministry of Justice, we can offer the Ukrainian Government and the NGOs the opportunity to send several Austrian experts. Such judicial cooperation may take place either bilaterally or also within the framework of a Council of Europe mission. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The situation in Ukraine is still very volatile and can continue to change at any time. [[Call at the FPÖ: Really?]] I would therefore like to make an appeal to those who are politically responsible on the ground to avoid any violence and not to repeat the mistakes of the predecessors. And we as the European Union must also be clear that we should be careful with all the joy of the success of the pro-European forces and not overpower Ukraine. In addition to the important and necessary approach to the European Union, Ukraine must always be able to maintain regional cooperation with neighbours such as Russia. Only in this way will there be a positive and peaceful perspective for Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e9241	Thank you, Minister of State. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr Hübner has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e9271	Mr President. High house! Mr Minister, I have to say that I am disappointed – in order to use your words – almost affected by the fact that you come here to hide the debate in the Austrian National Council on relevant, essential tax laws in the afternoon, and then deliver such an appearance here. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the Stronach team.]] As to what you said in your communication [[Deputies Mag. Kogler and Strache: It's in the newspapers!]] We have now expected that something relevant will come when the Foreign Minister puts the agenda on the head. If, instead of the Foreign Minister's debate, a statement has to be made, then something should be inside, what is new to Parliament, interesting, what is an announcement. What's inside now? – So for people who cannot read, for illiterate people – of which there are few in the National Council – there may have been some new things. [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: Don't insult anyone if you say: few illiterates!]] – But there is probably none of that. So I don't know anyone here anyway. [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: Where are the illiterate? – Not in our group!]] You can look. I don't know anyone. [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: That's the best thing: illiteracy in Parliament!]] So I assume that people have brought the events in Ukraine in the last two weeks and have also been able to share the events over the weekend. We know that there was a change of government there. I also assume that there are possibilities for Austria to be introduced. What have we heard about this today? – Maybe that was new – at least it was new to me; maybe I didn’t look after it: [[Abg. Wögerer: Look here!]] We have heard that Austria spends three-month visas free of charge for employees of NGOs and journalists – well, Ukraine will help! – or to expand the Erasmus programme for students. Well, that will really help a country that needs €35 billion to prevent the state bankruptcy. And then there is another appeal – which the Pope could not have made more beautiful – to the politicians to learn from the past in future and not to use violence in solving political problems. This should be more important than the debate on a tax-increasing slave, which at least in the years in which I am in Parliament is looking for the same thing? Is that supposed to be more important?- Oh, my God! You might have been able to address some important things. One could have addressed the background of the so-called revolution or the revolution. One should have considered how the European Union congratulated this one so eagerly, in the form of Mrs Ashton, for bringing together a resolution. That was a “great achievement, ” bringing together a resolution! This, of course, helps the Ukrainians, the citizens, the economy enormously! But with regard to this congratulation, you should consider: What's been supported? What was the victory of the so-called pro-European forces? – It was a violent revolution, forced by the pressure of the road, against a government – you can say about Mr. Yanukovitsch and the government what you want – democratically elected government. And this one has not been elected in directed selections, as it now means, in fake elections, but has been elected under a regime of Timoshenko/Jushchenko in 2010. So he was elected when the opponents were in power – with 48-comma-something against 42 percent of Timoshenko. That's at least 6 percent, it's not that close. As far as the Ukrainian Parliament is concerned, too, we know who is sitting in there, we know how to get in, we know what to pay to buy a mandate or a candidate there, we know everything, but: It is an elected Parliament. And the people who have forced Molotov cocktails on the Maidan Square and the like can't claim it. You have to say that. If, together with the Americans, the European Union has successfully poured oil into the flames and brought about this revolution, that is something to be carefully assessed at all – and not just to rejoice and pretend that a dictator would have been removed from democracy. [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: It's not bad!]] That's not true! One should also critically question the people you mentioned in part, as this is so beautiful. For example, you have called Mr Alexander Turchinov, the President of Parliament and now also interim presidents – as always happened. Mr Turchinov has noticed by one thing: In 2005, he was briefly, for about eight or nine months, chief of the Ukrainian security service – as the domestic secret service there – and his main task there was to get rid of the taxing documents against Julia Timoshenko and Mr. Semjon Mogilevich – which you may also get to know when Ukraine is treated more closely. Mr Mogilevich is one of the ten most wanted criminals in the world, even the FBI's most dangerous mafioso, and he was a business partner of Mrs Timoshenko in the nineties, when he and then Prime Minister Pawel Lasarenko tore the gas business there under the nail. By the way, Lasarenko has been sentenced to eight years in the U.S. – for fraud, necessity, money laundering – and in this judgment, which you find little in the Western media now, has been found to be a complicit Mrs. Julia Timoshenko. These are things that you simply have to know, and you also have to say it when you speak of a victory of pro-European forces, of a victory of youth and so on. The people who are up there now, who now have the big word again, are not the pro-European forces, the clean forces, that is not democracy, but that is at best another side of the problematic political medal of the USA. And that's what you have to say. [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: And you blame the Foreign Minister for this?- Oh, my God!]] To the Foreign Minister – to address your question, Mr Klubobmann – I suggest that he has not said anything here but general places, that he has repeated things that have all taken off the media for days and weeks, and that he has made announcements here from the free visa for three months for journalists up to the strengthening of the Erasmus programme, in view of the problems in Ukraine, the seriousness of the situation, the threat of the country's decay, the threatening circumstance that half of the country has triumphed over the other half – and not the propaganda over the dark powers, but half over the others. - I'll tell you. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the Stronach team]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Kurz.]] I would have expected him to address this, so he says: Watch out, friends! Let's see who we'll be in bed with in the future! Let's see we're not pouring any more oil into the flames! If we look at what really has to happen, let us address the real problems of Ukraine, let us address them! And not: Let's give three months of free visa to journalists and NGOs! Much more is not to be said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e9418	The next item is the report by Mr Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e9439	What we have to say is that there have been two statements by the Foreign Minister, and I want to go along with them now. One is that the European Union should allow opportunities for economic development, and the second is that it is also about maintaining regional cooperation with Russia. One can now see how the comments and how the reports of individual, especially German media are, but also what the keyartist in today’s edition of the “Press” under the title: “Why Julia Timoshenko Now Is Not the Woman of the Hour” writes where, among other things, he argues: “It is important to keep a whole country together and heal the wounds that have been beating on both sides in the last few weeks.” What threatens to happen now is a division of Ukraine. What now threatens – and that brings “spiegel online” so beautifully to the point – is that it can slip into a civil war that it can be the trigger of a new East-West confrontation. And that's exactly the wrong thing! It is a pity that Mr Haubner is not in the hall right now, because he spoke of the many investments made by Austrian entrepreneurs. And the chairman of the East Committee of the German Economy, Eckhard Cordes, puts it to the point in a comment in the “Handelsblatt”: ‘Russia belongs to it’. This is very important because it was also mentioned by the European Union's partnership and by the customs union of Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan. I'll tell you something. There are also investments there, and that is why, I believe, one has to deal with them very sensitively. And if there are some who then even philosophise that Ukraine is to become a member of NATO, then I can only quote the former Prime Minister Igor Gaidar, a liberal reformer and friend of the West, who says that if this is done, then the difficult situation for Russia is that it is no longer capable of defending at all. That explains – because that is the consequence of it – why they are so opposed and why they occur in this way. Of course, we also need to know another aspect of economic development: The weak regions in the west, these are Lemberg and other areas where the Nationalists' strongholds are; but where it really happens economically, that is the East, these are the steelworks, the shipbuilding and turbine construction. But their market is also Russia, and you have to see that. In addition, no matter what is easy to ignore – Russia has the entire Black Sea fleet standing at Sevastopol in Crimea. So I mean, the situation of Russia's interest is a clear one. If you do not address those as partners in the way of the discussion, there is the Cold War again, there is another East-West confrontation, this time with the participation of the European Union. No one can want that! Rather, what we want – if I have understood the European Union properly – are these signals of integration, that is, we are growing together here, but with Russia and not against Russia! – This is a very crucial aspect. [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and the representatives of FPÖ and NEOS.]] I am also opposed to seeing this indiscriminately – no one sees it indistinguishable anyway, but I say it anyway – as far as the Maidan Square is concerned. The “Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung” is published today: ‘The extremists of Majdan, “The paramilitarys of the right sector have defended the protest camp in Kiev against the regime – now they demand political influence.” It is absolutely right when it is now demanded that the opposition should be more uniform and that all of these should not be allowed to come to the train. That is exactly the wrong thing! There is then no compensation, no reconciliation. There is then a nationalist policy that permanently divides the country – and this, of course, must be countered with all power. But there is something else: Today, the name "Firtasch", also found in the "Mirror", has fallen in an article entitled "The Power of the Billionaries": “The bloody struggles in Kiev have led to a compromise between the regime and the opposition. Winners are less the activists on Maidan” – no matter in which differentiation you want to see them – “as two of the richest men in the country.” What I'm saying is not a secret. I believe that everyone is talking about the need, of course, for more rule of law to be promoted in the process of democracy. The fact that there is some oligarchic system there is also a fact to deal with. These names have not been wrong, and at least you should see that. I believe, however, that this is a very crucial point, which in turn brings the economic problem to the fore. In today’s “Handelsblatt” there is an interview with the Russian Minister for Economic Affairs. On the question of why Russia had a problem with the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the EU, he says that in principle it has no problem, but – and now I may quote –: “If Ukraine receives EU association, Russia will be flooded with goods. With goods from EU countries which are then free of customs duty within the framework of free trade in the Community of Independent States (). And in addition, goods that Ukrainian companies do not want to produce according to EU standards and then sell to us.” That means, of course, that has a fundamental impact on the Russian economy, on the Ukrainian economy. I would be interested to say, for example, that Mr Haubner or perhaps others who have dealt with this question say: What does this mean for us, for the Austrian investors, for what we are present there, for that companies are present who also have jobs to secure in Austria? These are key issues that go far beyond the legitimate concern over the dead – our compassion belongs, of course, to family members – and far beyond that we are looking for a partner when it comes to democratic development. It's about this partnership but in the close connection think about energy, gas, oil! Remember the trade, the exchange! You can't let that happen anymore! Mr Foreign Minister, you have already given this signal on these two points, but I believe that it is now necessary to insist in the final effect that this is recognised within the framework of the European Union and that this must be an essential element in the process. I trust that – Angela Merkel's phone call at Julia Timoshenko is also a sign; once she calls, not only does the phone ring, but it starts to ring at all – that German interests will also be more involved in this process of the European Union. It must be made clear, as I believe, in the United States too: that we are interested in this process – in eternal, unbreakable friendship with the USA, of course. But we are Europeans, and we want this development to be peaceful here and also in all our interest.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e9542	The next item is Mrs Windbüchler-Sushill. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e9564	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Minister, I am sorry, but your idea was more than mau; all that you have said quotes newspapers, quotes what everyone and everyone has gotten along – and I hardly know anyone who did not attempt to actually follow what happened in Ukraine over the weekend, via Twitter, over the Internet, over the newspapers. I'm really sorry, because in work talks I've experienced otherwise that the cliché is apparently actually confirmed here that you don't fit into this role yet and that you can't fill out this role either. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Call the ÖVP:Hello!]] [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: Mrs. Master Teacher! superinstructor!]] [[Abg. Brosz: Professor Lopatka!]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Lopatka.]] For days, the events in Ukraine, and the place of independence in Kiev, the Maidan Square, have actually become a symbol of the democracy movement in Ukraine: a symbol that law should actually apply to all people in Ukraine; a symbol that there is a democracy movement; a symbol that political participation must be possible, even in Ukraine, no matter how the election outcome was, and no matter what percentages of the Yanukovich government was actually elected. Small corruption, for example in administration, is a common problem and paralyses the whole economy. The large-scale corruption – in order to stay at the point that is extremely exciting for Austria as well and lacks an answer from the Foreign Minister – is said to have brought tens of millions of money abroad, while social insecurity is increasing in Ukraine. Ukraine can be found in the Corruption Perceptions Index at 144 out of 177, at the top of the ranking of the countries under investigation. It really needs an answer, and I also expect Austria and the Austrian Ministry of Foreign Affairs to have a clear answer to the question of how to deal with corruption, how can the fight against corruption actually take place? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But the Maidan Square is much more. It is also the symbol of the democracy movement that puts a hope in the European Union – a hope that the European Union actually supports it. [[Call the ÖVP: What now?]] The sad culmination of the protests – and you all know this, ladies and gentlemen – with 85 dead and hundreds of injured people directly on the spot kept the whole of Europe in breath, and the powerlessness was enormous: Security forces against demonstrators, Ukrainians against Ukrainians, civil war-like states in front of the gates of the European Union. Only these terrible developments have ultimately led the European Union to act. Nevertheless, Austria's role must be questioned, ladies and gentlemen, and for Austria's foreign policy, I think, is an additional question, which is the question of when any conflict is actually debated and when which conflict is dealt with intensively. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] Is Ukraine, ladies and gentlemen, and Mr Foreign Minister, closer than Bosnia or closer than Venezuela or closer than Thailand? – I believe that the House must have a wide-ranging discussion on foreign policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] I believe that the House must also debate in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which role Austria can actually play. The Foreign Minister and I recently had a very constructive work interview, I think, which was very open. [[Federal Minister Kurz: That sounds different now!]] – No, it doesn’t sound any different! In this discussion, the question complex was also discussed, which priorities Austrian foreign policy should set and actually implement. There, of course, is the question of dialogue, support for democracy movements, the rule of law at the top, regardless of whether there is a need for support in Ukraine, in Bosnia or Venezuela. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] We, ladies and gentlemen, have already tabled a joint motion for a resolution here a long time ago, and it is essential to welcome the fact that Ukraine is being debated in the House. The transformation of Ukraine towards the European Union must be seen as an important step in the right direction, and I, as Members of Parliament, strongly support all efforts to strengthen Ukraine's transformation towards the EU. The role of the FPÖ is completely unclear, and Mr Hübner, too, has not yet been able to see who he will actually support. [[call to the FPÖ.]] My person is very clearly on the side of the peaceful democratic movements. The FPÖ also did not support the motion for a resolution, which clearly states that Ukraine should be supported to be integrated into the EU. What further steps does it need from my point of view? – As explained at the outset: active support. There is a need for an active European Union neighbourhood policy. It needs an active Ukraine policy, of course also together with Austria. It needs the support of democracy efforts. Those responsible must be clearly held accountable. An important point is still open, which is definitely discussed, namely the question of how the European Union is dealing with Russia. How does the European Union deal with the fact that Ukraine is actually dependent on oil and gas imports from Russia? What about the payments? – Ukraine’s path to the European Union can only be achieved jointly!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e9702	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Lopatka is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e9724	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! When it comes to human rights issues, of course it makes no difference whether something is happening in the Fiji Islands or in Ukraine. But when it comes to economic policy issues, the direct impact of Austria, of course, it makes a difference, and rightly there is the EU's neighbourhood policy. If something happens in the Fiji Islands, Australia will speak accordingly, which is also the case. If something happens in Ukraine, the European Union is all the more demanding. – This should also be informative for you. [[Abg. Windbüchler-Sushill: Bosnia?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Brosz: Professor Lopatka!]] [[Abg. Wöginger: No, you already have them, the upper teachers!]] . Well, I am slowly adapting to your group on this question of higher education; the danger is that you will really adapt to it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz]] But one thing I'll tell you: EU neighbourhood policy – and this neighbourhood policy has not been invented by us – makes sense, of course, because the European Union is the least hopeful for those who believe that Ukraine as a sovereign state can decide for itself, as it continues in the future. With all economic dependence on Russia, we must do everything that Ukraine as an independent state can decide how to proceed. That's what I'm telling you: There's no eye twinkling! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is why I am very grateful to the Foreign Minister for his statement, because he has made it clear that the European Union has shown one and, so to speak, punished those lies that always claim that this European Union is economically strong, but politically a dwarf. [[Call the FPÖ:For which?]] On the question of Serbia-Kosovo, the well-informed head of foreign policy of the European Union Catherine Ashton has again shown that she can do something with the support of the Foreign Ministers. I am very grateful to the Foreign Minister for a moment; he did not say here, as he could have been, that on Thursday he was one of the co-initiators of this special meeting of the Foreign Ministers, at which the European Union has made it clear that one is taking a lead. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Korun]] It is very important to take action together and not nationally, in the canton party somehow to try to make a state particularly notice. This European Union has shown its ability to enter into negotiations with Russia. Putin and Russia have then accepted that this Ukrainian self-determination right within a sovereign state – and that is crucial to me – can come to a breakthrough. There is now this transitional government, there are the transitional presidents, and – symbolically, but for me more than a symbol – while at the same time voting for the European Parliament on 25 May. May also choose the Ukrainians, then that is a sign of hope for me. On Friday, in my opinion, it did not look so hopeful at all, but rather quite, quite worrying. The European Union has received the Nobel Peace Prize. Something's been done. After all, you've been able to stop bloodshed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Hübner.]] Every dead person is too much. It could have been hundreds and thousands. Let us hope that the people who paid for their convictions last week with their lives have been the last and that the European Union will be able to contribute to a solution in this not easy state! This is only with Russia, because I am a hundred percent of the opinion of honourable Member Cap: to achieve what would be necessary, namely that the common position is in front of the parting party. History, of course, is taxing Ukraine in a form that we may not be so aware of, and Austria has a special role to play. From 1772 to 1918 – I have already said that – 38 Members were still present. These were more Members than, for example, from today's federal state of Lower Austria were represented in the Reichsrat. [[Interruption with the ÖVP and the Abg. Steinbichler.]] – I took the largest land land in the country. [[Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz: Galician..!]] Austria has a special role here, of course, but, ladies and gentlemen, only after World War II, for example, the Crimea from Russia came to Ukraine in 1954 – you have to see that – and was dominated by Russia for centuries. Therefore, there can only be a solution with a strong European Union on the one hand and a permanent dialogue process with Russia on the other. One thing I can say from our side: Such questions are important to us. Vitali Klitschko was also at the time Foreign Minister Michael Spindelegger in September, and he is of course in constant contact with us with his Ukrainian Democratic Alliance, has observer status in the European People's Party. The other parties also have their duties to support these democratic parties in Ukraine at the same party level. Last point from my side: We must also support those who are fighting corruption there. Mr Rossmann is not here right now, he has not listened to it before, when the Foreign Minister has clearly said that the FMA is taking such steps. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] I'll tell you: Of course, we also support the work of AntAC, and, as the Foreign Minister said, Austria is focusing on this. We have financial limits. A priority is the judicial reform in Ukraine, where we, as a national state, also make our contribution within the European Union. I am therefore glad that we are also having foreign policy debates here. I think it is appropriate, in addition to important questions, such as whether we now have a sparkling wine tax or not, to discuss such issues as human rights, here in this House at this hour.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e9851	The next item is Mrs Lintl's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e9873	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, unfortunately, we have no longer been able to draw on the report of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs than the media over the weekend. [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: Somely even less!]] We are all shocked by the pictures that have reached us from Ukraine in the last few days. Our solidarity applies to those who have lost their lives in the struggle for freedom and democracy. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team as well as representatives of Greens and NEOS.]] The situation is still completely unclear, since – perhaps overlaid by the Sochi Olympic Games – there is still no statement as to how Russia stands against the conflict. The speculations go to a western and eastern part until a feared division of the country, taking into account the status of Crimea. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Steinhauser]] We do not know how the development will continue in the next few days. The release of Julia Timoshenko from prison and the election of the transitional president is positive. We hope for a peaceful development towards democracy, freedom of expression and the independent press. The protection of human rights is a top priority, and the political structures must be built. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Köchl.]] But one must also be clear: Ukraine is at a geopolitical interface, but Europe and Russia must not oppose this conflict. The Cold War is over. A consensus on future development needs to be found. EU mediation was a first step. Ideal now would be an agreed approach by the EU and Russia with Ukraine, a set plan for the country's economic development. A destabilized Ukraine, in which perhaps a civil war rages and its economy is on the ground, also poses a risk to Austria. We have already experienced a few years ago what this is like when no gas flows to Austria. I also think that the West is making a mistake. If a regime is thrown into a country, democratic structures cannot automatically be overrun with a party system that is comparable to ours. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Willi.]] We cannot assume that opposition forces in Ukraine automatically pursue democratic goals. The political spectrum of the opposition is very broad and is also sufficient in anti-democratic structures. Another aspect is the precarious economic situation in Ukraine. It threatens a state bankruptcy that would have dramatic consequences in a country with a population of 45 million. US, EU and IMF have already promised support and immediate negotiations. Ukraine must be able to stand back on its own feet as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, at the moment we cannot estimate the game of powers in Ukraine, but one thing is certain: East and West must be no more contrast! We must stop thinking in the ‘cold war’ scheme, Europe, the USA and Russia must exert positive influence and support together – with the aim of allowing Ukraine to take a self-determined path into a market-economic-democratic order! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e9934	The next item is Mrs Mlinar's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e9956	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Spoštovane lady in gospodje! After Europe, which promise – also clearly formulated by you, Minister. I do not know how many of you – but I suppose most of them – had the opportunity to follow the ZIB 2 on Friday evening. If you have seen this, you may remember the two older ladies who interviewed the ORF correspondent – at a time when it was not yet clear that Viktor Yanukovich is right in front of losing his power, that Julia Timoshenko will be released from prison, that he has also generally missed the events and a new chapter has been opened up in Ukraine. I say this completely valueless, because it has been clear and today, even more often, correctly noted that no one can estimate at that time whether the situation in which the country is located will remain stable and whether this will ultimately lead to a quiet situation. The two ladies mentioned were so to the 70 years old, and both answered the question of where the country should develop and orient itself, for me in a very impressive way, namely quite clearly: to Europe! I do not agree with you here, Mr Minister, if you think that we as the European Union have done enough. I wonder – and I say that very clearly –: As a European Union, why do we not do it, Foreign Commissioner Catherine Ashton? to send concrete conciliation attempts, including a clear mandate to negotiate with Russia? [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Of course, no one can guarantee that a timely response would have prevented what happened, but it would certainly have been a signal; a signal that we are responding early on to threatening developments in our neighbouring countries – and Ukraine is a neighbouring state of the European Union – and that we are taking part in the fate of a country whose history is directly and inseparably linked to ours. That is what we have heard today, and I really want to stress this and call us into consciousness here too. So what does it look like, the common foreign and security policy of the European Union? Is it, as it is currently working, really an expression of the instrument we want to have when it comes to carrying our European identity outside? – I mean, quite honestly, that it is not enough what we are doing right now. I am not only referring to our hesitation in Ukraine, but also to the fact that Member States at our external borders will leave themselves with the treatment of refugee flows. It is then pretended that this is not a pan-European problem, but an Italian problem, a Spanish problem, a Maltese problem or a Greek problem. If, as happened last week, Spanish border officials shoot completely overshadowed refugees who want to reach the country floating, we will point out to them with our finger. I am convinced, and this draws like a red thread through our ideas for Europe, it also needs a close-up within our European Union. People drowning in the Mediterranean are all our problem! Dead and wounded in Kiev are all our problem! I wish that the words of the Ukrainian political scientist in the assessment of the political future of his country, according to which Ukraine can no longer be ruled authoritarianally in the light of recent developments, may come true. However, I also wish Austria, in the context of the European Union, to have a greater impact on the foreign policy requirements of the 21st century, with a common, strong European voice. ==References====External links== This is my wish for you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and I would like to thank you here in every way for the ministerial statement on this subject, which is very important if I, too, – and allow me this half-score – would like to receive a little more background information. Spoštovane lady in gospodje! Prav lepa hvala!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e10026	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Korun. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e10047	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear guests on the gallery and spectators in front of the screens! One of the activists on the Maidan Square, which the demonstrators and demonstrators have renamed to "Euromaidan", recently published "Standard" interview, addressed all of us in the EU and in Europe: “The Ukrainians literally defend with their own blood the European values of a free and just society. My hope is that you will appreciate that!" I am not always sure whether, above all, various governments in the EU appreciate what many Ukrainians have literally defended with their blood. With all the difficulty in the protest movement – it is anything but uniform, it is not black-and-white to see, we all know that the media coverage and the media have been working on – however, this does not fit together with the other. If one has listened briefly to the statements made by the Federal Minister, one has almost got the impression that the EU would have made more or less of a move to Ukraine. The fact that the EU has reported itself more than hesitant, much too late and very, very weak, is also known to all those who have persecuted media coverage. At this point too, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to say: I am very, very much in favour of us having much more foreign policy discussions in the National Council – we are, in my opinion, to our taste, far too few foreign policy discussions here – but please not so that it becomes so obvious that this item on the agenda was not necessarily put on the agenda because of the topicality of the terrible events in Ukraine, but in order to push the item on the agenda with the tax package into the background. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] Unfortunately, I also have to include in the series of critics who have said several times, unfortunately, your statements have not really contained anything else but what we have all heard in the media in the last few days. [[Abg. Rädler: Your opinion!]] And that does not justify at all this approach of the government groups. [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: Maybe it was new for the ÖVP!]] [[Call the ÖVP:No!]] I would like to come to an important issue from our point of view, namely the question of human rights, which our federal government – which unfortunately is not alone in the EU – has far too little to address. I think that some of the speeches here have shown us all a very clear moral picture, that of Mr Cap, for example, in which we were constantly talking about our economic interests, oil and gas, of investments, and so on, but in which human rights have not occurred once. I do not believe that I have heard the word ‘human rights’ once in your speech – and that in view of the fact that our country is one of the major investors in Ukraine and that the Federal Government has been claiming for years and years to make very great international efforts, including on human rights. I say, especially when we are one of the big investors there, we need to make the issue of human rights, the issue of corruption all the louder, all the more clear. If you listen to Mr Cap and Mr Lopatka's speeches, the following remains: Economic interests, economic interests, economic interests, but very little on human rights. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: That's not true!]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] One last sentence: When the retired Ukrainian Prime Minister Asarrow had resigned to Vienna at the end of January, media described in detail how various representatives of the Ukrainian government bunked millions in Austria – thanks to our banking secrecy. Unfortunately, I have not heard anything on this issue either, especially from the Members of the Government. On the one hand, to say: Yes, it is good that there is this human rights movement, this opposition movement in Ukraine!, but with no word to mention that Ukrainian potentials and government representatives have bunked millions here, thanks to a banking secret against which you defend yourself with hands and feet, I would call it hypocritical. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e10138	Ladies and gentlemen, hard at the border, actually already over it! [[Abg. Neubauer: What does “hard at the border” mean?]] [[Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz: With the conjunctive you can not!]] The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e10186	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, in the last few days the news and the pictures in the television stations that have reached us from Kiev and other places have been missed. We were all very upset and shocked; and I think that for many people in Europe, even for me, these pictures were so great a shock because they finally came from the heart of Europe, from our immediate neighborhood. We have already mentioned this a few times today: Lemberg is not much further away from Vienna than Innsbruck. What is happening in Ukraine is therefore also having a direct impact on Austria. So think of the geographical proximity, but also of the economic links and the numerous cultural links with this country! I am glad, ladies and gentlemen, that the diplomatic efforts of the three EU foreign ministers from Germany, Poland and France have apparently been successful. And I am glad that in Ukraine, first of all, those who are seeking a common non-violent solution have prevailed on both sides. But I am also glad that Russia has participated in the conciliation talks by a special envoy, for one thing is clear, ladies and gentlemen: Without Russia, there will be no sustainable peaceful solution in Ukraine. We should all learn from history. I think that is different from Mr Hübner. Russia will not win anything if cooperation between the EU and Ukraine fails. And the EU, too, won't win anything if Russia and Ukraine cannot cooperate. [[Call the FPÖ:Yes, but!]] [[Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz: He didn't say that!]] Either we all win through increasing cooperation and integration in Europe, or we all lose through instability and uncertainty in Europe. We therefore urgently need a course correction. We have to keep thinking, as it were. For Ukraine and also for us and for Russia, it is extremely important for Ukraine to maintain close and good relations with the EU, but also with Russia. If Ukraine does not fall apart and sink into a civil war, the political conflict parties in Ukraine must find a compromise and a new balance. No page can completely impose its position on the other side alone. This must also be clear of the opposition, which now seems to have the reins in hand in Kiev. The same applies to Russia and the EU. We must not put Ukraine before the choice of being able to cooperate only with one side. We now have to work together on a solution at the same level. We should therefore try more and more to use the two pan-European peace and security organisations, that is to say the OSCE and the Council of Europe, where Russia, Ukraine and the other European states are equally entitled to debate each other and are members with equal rights, as active intermediaries. Austria, which has already been mentioned, currently has the Presidency in the Council of Europe and can make an important contribution to this. Not to be forgotten are the numerous election observers and election observers, who repeatedly allow the transformation to be properly negotiated and held in such countries. So it is now necessary to act quickly so that fragile peace has a realistic chance, because we know that there are radical and violent forces on both sides, which are not based on a peaceful solution. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e10236	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e10257	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Foreign Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! There are already shaking pictures that we have been delivered by the media for weeks now. A few hundred kilometers from us burn places, fly paving stones, people are shot, people are shot. Ukraine, a European country, threatens to sink in chaos; and this concerns us – social, political, but above all humane. Even if Ukraine is not part of the European Union, it concerns us, because the people in Ukraine hope for the EU, they rely on the EU, they march with European flags, and they are also shot under European flags. [[Abg. Kickl: The problem is just not!]] Therefore, it must be recognized that Ukraine is a young democracy, is a young country, and there you can see all the difficulty in the transformation process when a former Communist country becomes a democratic country. It is already impressive to see that hundreds of thousands of people struggle to have democratic conditions, stable democratic conditions – as they are of course for us. They have also been successful, because in the end, the mass protests, also thanks to the support of the European Union and others, have led to new elections. This is a strong sign of co-determination and also a strong sign of democracy, something we are discussing here in the House. The great mass of people can no longer be liked to be treated from above, but wants to actively co-shape – here like there, and there it is much more. It was probably the European Union – and this has been mentioned in brief by Foreign Minister Kurz – which has sent three foreign ministers, from Germany, France and Poland, who have very probably brought a dynamic into the conciliation talks. They've all been persecuting this. A roadmap for resolving the conflict has been drawn up together with the European Union. Sanctions have been imposed on the part of the EU, which have ultimately led to a reduction in anti-terrorism operations and a return to more stability. It was agreed and the key points were that there is a transitional government, that there is a change in the Constitution and that there are favoured presidential elections. As a result, Parliament has now also prompted the release of Timoshenko and the creation of new elections for May. But stability and peace are not yet secure, and this is sometimes a central task for the European Union. Of course, there is the accusation, and this has also been said here that the EU has acted too late and perhaps too hesitantly. That may be true, but you will be able to say it again and again: Well, the EU should have acted earlier! – The fact is that the EU has very probably produced results from foreign policy, including through the participation of Austrian foreign policy, the Austrian Foreign Minister, which I quoted earlier. The fact is that the EU is still active. Ashton is on the move today, and further activities will follow because Ukraine needs three things: stability, democracy and growth. The role of Parliament in Ukraine is particularly remarkable, which is also an example for us, that in the end Parliament is very likely to start this process with all the fore and reluctances connected with it and is very much in line with it. It is therefore important for the Foreign Minister to make a statement here, report on the activities of Austrian foreign policy, and that we can deal with the issue that Parliament, including the Austrian Parliament, has an active role here. The fact is, however, that Parliament's activities continue to pose the risk of splitting in Ukraine, because it has recently been decided that Russian as a minority language is banned as an official language. I do not think that this is a good signal, not a good sign, because there is indeed a danger that Ukraine will become a permanent conflict-place, like the decaying Yugoslavia was, and this should be prevented. The resignation of the President is also legally questionable. All of this has to be put on stable legs without question. Therefore, on behalf of the European Union, Mrs Ashton is on the road, including under the participation of Austria, to achieve a lasting solution, a lasting solution to stability and security, and above all, and I think this is important for you to accept corruption. Sebastian Kurz mentioned this and also addressed it directly: This is a central point, not only for the large economic units, but also for the Otto normal consumer, who is affected by small corruption there. After all, Ukraine is the second largest state in Europe after Russia, and Russia is the most important foreign trade partner for Ukraine. Austria is the fifth largest investor in Ukraine. So, in addition to the human dimension, I am quite right in giving you this, it is probably also an economic policy, especially because Ukraine is also quite dependent on Russia, which is the energy supply, that is, on its energy security. Therefore, a common solution can only be achieved in the European Union, Russia and Ukraine, for Russia has already suspended economic aid and thus wants to put Ukraine under pressure. The danger of Ukraine's state bankruptcy is in the room, and that's why we have to work against it. The United States, the International Monetary Fund, has provided financial assistance, and it is also important that the European Union sends signals in this regard. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl]] I would particularly like to highlight those points that Sebastian Kurz mentioned, because, of course, they are about the big solutions, but also about many small building blocks, how to help Ukraine. And to say that young people who are pro-Europeanally oriented with the flag of Europe on the Maidan Square are being helped and that they are offered access to Austria, to our institutions, to our universities, to help them use programmes such as Erasmus+, or also to remove bureaucratic barriers so that journalists, NGOs can be here with us and, without presumptuousness, learn from us, I think it is a decisive step in the small, building up the common Europe. This is concrete aid that benefits the Ukrainians, who also benefit from democracy there. That's right for Foreign Minister Kurz. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Arbitrator.]] On the third point, as you have referred to corruption: The expertise of Austrian experts in the field of justice is crucial. The great corruption, but also the daily small corruption is annoying the Ukrainians. We know this from numerous reports, and it is therefore appropriate to help there. In conclusion: Many people in Ukraine live a European dream, and especially we Austrians, as Europeans, should not let down our friends who believe in a common Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e10318	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[14:43:26]] 2. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (16D.B._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, with which an authorisation is granted via federal assets (30 d.b.) 3rd. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (24D.B._Other Organiser The Federal Act, which amends the Income Tax Act 1988, the Corporate Tax Act 1988, the Stability Tax Act, the Reform Tax Act, the Income Tax Act 1994, the Fee Tax Act 1957, the Tax Act 1957, the Insurance Tax Act 1953, the Car tax Act 1992, the Flight Tax Act, the Standard Tax Law 1991, the Alcohol Tax Act, the Sparkling Tax Act 1995, the Tobacco Tax Act 1995, the Gambling Act 1995, the German Tax Code, the Tax Code, the Tax Code 2010, the Financial Penal Code, the Federal Financial Law, the Banking Act, the Stock Exchange Act 1989, the Insurance Supervisory Act, the GmbH Act, the Notarial Tax Act, the Law, the Company Code and the Payment Services Act, and Section VIII of the Federal Act BGBl. No. 325/1986, as well as on the applications, is repealed (Debung Change Act 2014 – AbgÄG 2014) 164/A(E) by Dr Kathrin Nachbaur, colleagues in relation to ‘Stablety levy’, 165/A(E) by Dr Kathrin Nachbaur, colleagues on the Economic Protection Pact, 205/A(E) by Mr Mag. Nikolaus Alm, colleagues with regard to the new regulation of the benefit-free contribution in the Income Tax Act, and 206/A(E) of Deputies Mag. Nikolaus Alm, colleagues concerning the establishment of a “Zero” GmbH (31 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e10396	We now come to points 2 and 3 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Klubobmann is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e10423	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the government! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen in front of the TV screens! Yes, we would have liked to see another subject today, of course, namely a tax reduction package, a tax relief package, the decommissioning, the relief of the economy, the promotion of the labour market in view of the dramatic developments that we find today with record unemployment on the Austrian labour market. But unfortunately God is not the case: We are debating a tax-amendment law, in which we will finally find some nice horrors, which are to be decided today. For example, this includes the adjustment of the standard excise duty to be introduced into the tax bags in the next few years, the increase in the motor-related insurance tax, which will even bring €1.1 billion into the tax bags, and I wonder: Where is the great tax justice, which has always been tried, and where are above all the great promises of election which we have heard in the course of the last National Council election campaign of SPÖ, but also of the Austrian People's Party, that the discharges will come now, especially since we are already the highest tax country and the citizens will ultimately be cut off from the front to the back? I say that this discharge is unfortunately not taking place. We are experiencing additional burdens, which, of course, also hit the middle class again, and above all, those workers who are ultimately dependent on getting to work with their car, their cars, or who need it to be able to do their work. That's where it's set. On the one hand, what is given them as a slight increase in family aid is taken away from them with these tax increases. This is simply not fair, it has nothing to do with tax justice. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, the commuting agents are also being burdened and again embroiled and, of course, the old principle applies once again: With the drivers, the milk cow of the nation, you can put on with no thought. - And that's not true. Of course, it should also be noted that the changeover of the bonus malus system has gone well. The introduction of a linear-progressive tariff may be easier than the previous link to the NoVA, but of course it also causes rarity. For example, sinteurous PS-strong import vehicles from the USA will be cheaper to buy in the future, cheaper to buy, because the price does not play a role anymore, but expressly only more of the pollutant emissions. . I say there are certainly a few of these ghastly decisions. [[Call:The Eugen Friend]] And the smokers are probably back on. As Mr Herbert Kickl rightly said earlier, it is always here that the causers of the crisis should finally be held responsible. So, on the one hand, the drivers who are certainly not the cause of the crisis are now coming along, on the other hand, the smokers are coming along, of which one also wants to cash in €1 billion in the future. Now one could already discuss this if the sum would be spent at least once on the health system, but not even that is the case, that is not the point. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In addition, further increases are being made, i.e. the increase in sparkling wine and alcohol taxes. - Yeah, great! This, of course, affects a few farms that are already fighting for their existence today. And then, in particular, there are again burdens that will ultimately hit the smaller and medium-sized entrepreneurs above all, i.e. a total additional burden of up to €5 billion. This is a package that supports the alleged economic party ÖVP. So I really wonder, Mr Vice-Chancellor, how your detachment can now be explained. You didn't make the self-retardment out of the SPÖ chain? Is the SPÖ responsible now? How do you intend to position yourself crediblely as an economic party in some way in the future if the economy is particularly suffering from you, namely in recent years, but above all in the future? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I say there's been some wrong! There are other decisions and measures to be taken: There is a need for a reduction in the additional wage costs, as it finally requires a reduction in the income tax, because it simply needs tax reduction measures so that people can re-create themselves half-way and that they also receive a corresponding reward for their hard work and performance and that they can also spend more money and the economic cycle is revived. This is not the case with this package of extra taxes. However, it will be particularly interesting in the banking sector if one looks at the changes made by the government in the area of stability taxation, namely the so-called bank levy. We are then back to the so-called justice, where those who have caused the damage are supposed to get away with it. So if you look closely at that, it's the opposite. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Arbitrator.]] It is interesting to note that you were responsible for the derivatives, whose exploding and opaque volume of trade was ultimately to blame for the outbreak of the crisis and the Lehman development, so that you are finally going straight to the trigger and calculate them from the basis for the bank tax. I wonder, What's just there? Where are the causes of those who come to the handcushion? – On the contrary: They were finally relieved! [[Abg. May. Arbitrators: Then you have not finished reading it!]] This provision is, of course, a gift for those banks that have a large volume of relevant shops and which have also caused losses in speculation. [[Abg. May. Arbitrator: This is a misunderstanding!]] These are not the small savings banks in the country, Mr Schieder, but these are the big banks. [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Arbitrator.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Socialist solidarity!]] Thank you! the big banks will say you big bank representatives! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Put on where the causers are, and do not relieve again exactly those who have ultimately caused the damage! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Höbart.]] And then we put one more thing on it and claim that, in return, the bank levy on the balance sheet amount would be increased. – However, a look at the asset side of a bank account shows us that, for example, credit is burdened on households and SMEs, while abstract speculation on the financial markets is further rewarded, Mr Schieder! [[Abg. May. Arbitrators:... have understood!]] This is your policy, and you have to make it visible once. There you drink more wine and not water. – You always preach water, but in truth you do exactly the opposite, and you simply have to make it visible. [[Abg. May. Arbitrators: I don't preach at all! I don't preach!]] This simply shows the dishonesty with which you conduct politics, and that is exactly what is to be shown here. There, where the Federal Government itself had it in hand, one does exactly the opposite of what one often says in the public. This is the case in the case of bank charges, but also in the now planned settlement for the mortgage, where, of course, the first days were done verbally, so that not the causers and the creditors come to the handkuss, but these are played free. So, of course, we're not gonna watch that. I am already glad and grateful that after the first negative reactions, after a special meeting has been held here, the Minister of Finance has then begun to take the legitimate criticism of the opposition seriously, and then, after the special meeting, has spoken of it – and after that – that he intends to involve the creditors in the responsibility. And, of course, it's also important to be... [[Abg. Krainer: The appointment was long before the special meeting!]] - Excuse me, colleague? [[Abg. Krainer: The appointment was made long before the special meeting!]] No, the interview by Vice Chancellor was after the special meeting. You didn't watch what I said now. There has then been the change in the content of the price after the opposition has built up pressure here and very well required to review any solution in order to find the most favourable for the taxpayer, up to an orderly insolvency that the creditors of course have to be held responsible in the liability chain and not all should be paid to the taxpayer. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, taxpayers rightly expect that this form of money destruction, as a whole, in the area of speculation developments, which we have seen in some federal states, will at last be prohibited, that the appropriate legal conditions are finally ensured, that public money will no longer be speculated and that citizens will also have a right to their tax payments being handled responsibly. Finally, there is a need for action! And then go here and get ready to present today a load package of €5.4 billion. I say that this is an irresponsible policy, where you are putting additional burdens on the citizens, and in fact, Mr Schieder, so that you can hear it again, that the big banks can get out of there or there in a fine way. [[Abg. May. Arbitrators:... really not understood!]] This is perhaps the Raiffeisen political principle that is being lived here. One can only wonder and, of course, question this critically. Our principle is not that! I say that this federal government has, in fact, once again presented a political burden package, where one has to say that you are responsible for the economic burden package and the economic development that we have today, in the course of a development with a record unemployment of over 450 000 unemployed people in Austria, in a development where more and more companies are at risk of insolvency, are increasingly having fewer and less equity, more and more companies are sorry that there is a credit terminal and they can no longer get loans and invest and therefore they cannot be competitive anymore, because they cannot invest, which is why they, of course, also have to reduce jobs instead of creating them. But they make further strains and thus tighten exactly this negative process. I would have expected something else today in such developments, namely that it will be countered with targeted reliefs for the working population, for the service providers, for the small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, so that at last this negative cycle can be broken through, the economic cycle can be revived, the people have a little more net of gross money in their pocket, in order to be able to afford their lives better. And believe me: They would not use this to save, but they would eventually use it to satisfy their daily needs. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For more than a million people who live at the poverty line and partly do not know how they get through the rounds month after month, there is a need for action, and so I say, unfortunately God has really not taught you anything. The promises before the election are again wrong, but the citizens can relish it, and, above all, citizens will certainly learn the right lessons from it.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e10624	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Lopatka is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e10645	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Dear Secretary of State! Mr State Secretary! Not because it has now been called for by Klubobmann Strache, but because the Minister of Finance has negotiated it with the Minister of Social Affairs over the last few weeks, I tell you that today an own-initiative proposal is being put in place, which amounts to €350 million for a labour market package and €200 million for additional labour costs. So exactly what you have called for here, the Federal Government is doing. So your accusation goes into the void, Klubobmann Strache! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Street: On the contrary! They move back into promises that are not fulfilled!]] The second thing I have to tell you: It's strange – really, it's strange! Today in the early morning, the meeting began with the security debate. The Minister of the Interior is doing exactly what the Court of Auditors calls for – you are against it. Now we have, yes – and this does not make us happy, but it is necessary – the tax-change law. Why? To do exactly what is necessary to stabilise the budget. And here you speak, and your Secretary-General Kickl has already spoken about it this morning, about a billion-dollar package – that is also wrong. It is € 547 million for the federal government in this year. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek.]] The initiative I have mentioned – labour market package and additional wage reduction – is more than this sum. And then something on the expenditure side is added, which is not easy for the individual departments: We have agreed that there must be savings measures – in each department – in a total of €500 million. So as black-and-white as You paint this, of course it is not, but we have a bundle of measures here. The focus is on doing something on the expenditure side. The second priority is to invest wisely the funds we have available. Yes, and the third point, I have to say that – it doesn't make me happy, but it is necessary – is to increase moderate taxes here. That's the approach we're on the way here. And why do we want to do everything we can to achieve this zero deficit in 2016? – In order to obtain funding for necessary future investment. Just think about the university area to take out only one area. That means what we are planning here is something that we can, with good conscience, also represent to taxpayers. They've been talking to the economy. – Yes, it is true what has also come out here through parliamentary negotiations to make it easier for those who are at the beginning of an entrepreneurial career that founded a GmbH to really fall under the arms for them to start. That's it. Or think of the profit-free amount. The negotiations we have conducted will also have added value. If there is an incentive to invest in residential bonds, I assume that there are additional funds, which are then used in residential construction. So further development is positive. Or the craftsman bonus. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Why doesn't he come?]] – Yes, all of this is precisely a strengthening of the medium-sized enterprises, the small businesses, and that is also decided. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: He's not inside!]] If we adopt this tax-amending law here, I tell you, we will make a real contribution to consolidation. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: The craftsman bonus will not be decided!]] But it's completely wrong only to take this one point out. The far bigger measures are being taken when it comes to stimulating the labour market in terms of reducing additional labour costs. In this contemplation, this is to be seen and not as one-dimensional as you do by talking about billions of loads. In reality, I repeat, it makes up 547 million, which remains the covenant of surplus revenue in this year. That's it, and I'm asking you to stay here. [[President Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).]] The Federal Government will not lose sight of the ambitious goal of creating this structural zero deficit in 2016. We will discuss this further in May, both at the 2014 budget and at the 2015 budget. This will keep us at the forefront in Europe when it comes to having the lowest unemployment, but also stable finances. Both are absolutely necessary in order to keep Austria at the head of the European Union.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e10743	Mrs. Klubobfrau Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e10764	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Klubobmann Lopatka, you have announced in your speech a measure we have been waiting for since the turn of the year. They also expressed this with a certain joy of harm to the opposition: € 350 million for the labour market. Given the dramatic figures – we have never had such a dramatic unemployment in Austria since 1957 – I look at this more than at last to do homework. For this, you have been elected to take a lot more rapid action in this area, and by the way, do not just announce it. [[Congratulation with the Greens as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Call to the ÖVP:The government is only in office for two months, Mrs Colleague!]] This government has only been in office for two months, that is already right; but you have been ruling together for many years. In this way I come to the point of departure of my speech, which I have chosen. The Minister of Finance has already had to make a lot of mockery and mockery about what has affected his intrusive choice of words in the election campaign, which is what the detachment of the economy is about. You could say, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Okay, it's enough of the mockery and cocks now, if it just didn't have that dramatic effects. However, one has to refer to these electoral slogans again, one has to comment on them again. They have truly promised something so different in the election campaign and announced what is now coming, that you can't just wipe it out of the table. That's what it's all about. No new taxes! No tax increase! Unbundling of the economy. A large tax relief package has been announced from the SPÖ for very, very many people in Austria, namely, the reduction of the tax rate from 36 percent to 25 percent. This is a very expensive project, one must also say – €3 billion – but finally it was clear that both government parties actually represented this discharge in the election campaign. It is about the difference between what they represented before the election, namely a reduction in the tax burden by €3 billion, of which many people in Austria would have had something – that goes into the hundreds of thousands, if not even more than one million of them – and what they are now presenting: a load package of €1.2 billion. In between, there is already an blatant divide. In this context, one must also appeal to political honesty and political culture, that what one says in the election campaign should at least have something to do with what one does after the election. [[Congratulation with the Greens as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] The government's programme shows this unfairness even more clearly. You have just mentioned the craftsman bonus, which could certainly make a positive contribution to getting some craftsmanship out of the black job, which would certainly also have positive economic effects. However, there is no such thing in this package that we decide on today. There's no such thing – that's clearly gone away from you! Once again on the point that makes it impossible for us to decide on this package. We will not take this tax amendment package into account, and we also want to take part of this law, namely the whole area in which the founders, the young entrepreneurs, are concerned, so everything around the GmbH light, is taken out of today's decision-making. I would also like to argue that again. Since July 2013, we have the opportunity for young entrepreneurs to create a GmbH with a lower parent capital, the so-called GmbH light. In the period from July to October alone, there were almost 60 percent more new entrants in this area than in the same period of the previous year. This possibility has now de facto been abolished. This was also justified by completely incorrect claims, namely that the old GmbHs would have used this opportunity to get around. – Alone, that’s just and completely wrong. Of the 130 000 GmbHs we have in Austria, it was only half a percent that benefited from this possibility. There is nothing worse in economic policy than legal uncertainty for founders, for young people who want to engage in this adventure. Changing the conditions in the zigzag course every eight months is the smooth opposite of what Austria needs in this area. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Bitch.]] We want it to stay the way it is. Small business operators need significantly more measures than the GmbH light remains as it is. There were a number of other measures in the package. At least not to do so again, not to put the bonds back again, we want to achieve today with the amendment request to remove this part from the law. Originally, we – Mr Haubner is already waiting for me to speak to him now – thought that there are allies in the Economic Federation for this. We were also very pleased when, from this corner, there was a clear contradiction with great volume. However, as measured by success, and I say this a little evil now, it was rather a dwarf uprising, because what was actually achieved is not understandable to the founders. Economic Chamber President Leitl, who, as I believe, shows far too little appreciation for these small and small entrepreneurs, has actually achieved nothing essential, and that is a pity. We need a completely different appreciation of these people who create their own jobs and perhaps also a second and third person. In order not to let go of anything positive, there is also to say, Mr. Klubobmann Schieder: There are also positive points in the package. This is, on the one hand, the limitation of tax deductibility for managers' salaries. This is true once, I don't know, 1,000, 1,500 people in Austria. This is rather symbolic, but after all. I also think it is a good thing that tax fraud is dealt with by the possibility of, for example, removing, eliminating taxes on licensing payments to daughters in Ireland in Austria – for it was legally possible – to avoid. The increase in bank charges is also positive. However, I cannot understand what happened to you at the NoVA, namely the luxury limousines and the sports weights. There's a mystery that's supposed to make sense to me. By the way, the entire control system is still flickwerk and piecework. In the meantime, it has been almost 25 years since a real big tax reform was carried out in Austria. And the last real tax reform commission was in 1998, 1999. There was still Minister of Finance Edlinger in office. Since then, there has been no structured tax reform. A working group consisting of the two State Secretarys, i.e. Steßl and Danninger, is not a reform commission. This may be a coalition working group. That once independent experts are dealing with the major issues of our tax system – relief of the factor work, ecologisation – that is to say, the large chunks, the structures are looking at, because, in international comparison, we are really following in many areas, would actually have been the task of the hour. [[Congratulation with greens and NEOS.]] We are waiting for political honesty. When I hear: In 2016, the zero deficit is reached, I have to say: Okay, that's where the bill was apparently made without the hypo. It is also incredibly difficult to discuss a tax package without knowing the budget. That's not fair either. At least there are positive signals at the Hypo-Horizont, however, namely that the Minister of Finance has taken over the Kogler model, i.e. the participation of creditors also takes account of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e10832	Mr Klubobmann Mag is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Arbitrator. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e10853	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I take the positive focus on what the Green Club has said, namely – even if it is called homework – to make the €350 million available for active labour market policy. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: We haven't seen them yet!]] If you call it homework, we call it: take the responsibility for the labour market seriously. [[Abg. That's just an announcement!]] I think that is an important point. This means that there are funds for reintegration aid for older workers, for long-term unemployed, namely those persons who are over 180 days of age and over 50 years of age. In the future, this priority package will continue to ensure that Austria does everything on the labour market so that unemployment does not continue to rise but falls again. This is very important, and I am therefore very pleased about it. This will ultimately help us in budget policy, because if people have a job, it will not only be good for people, but also better for the state budget. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It has also been mentioned what the election promises or statements made in the election campaign are like their implementation. For what we have addressed in the election campaign and formulated as a priority, I find very important points here in the tax-amendment law. The title reads as follows: Tax justice. This means that top earners in the very high income classes will continue to pay the solidarity contribution. This is € 110 million more in the budget than originally planned. The limitation of the deductibility of manager salaries over €500 000 brings €60 million. This is also an essential contribution to stability and fiscal justice. For closing control loops: If we limit group taxation to countries with which mutual assistance agreements exist, we will allow for two kinds of offensives in the export sector, but at the same time prevent what we do not want, namely that the tax performance will be reduced via dubious channels. Even in profit-shifting, i.e. the area in which international multis create an internal billing cycle via license fees, through interest rates, so that they no longer pay any more taxes at all, we start. This means in the final effect that Starbucks pays less taxes than the small espresso at the corner. So it is a question of economic justice that you correct this. This prohibition on deductions, i.e. the fact that the major international corporations are no longer able to deduct interest and license fees internally, is a very, very crucial point. This will be discussed in the OECD world. The difference is – call it from me again only: Making homework – we in Austria today adopt a law that makes this impossible while others are still discussing. I am glad that Austria has become international pioneers in this field. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But let me also mention the issue of combating fraud, because we discussed this today also in connection with Ukraine, namely the removal of the ban on exploitation. If other tax evasion offences occur in the case of money laundering investigations, they can also be prosecuted in the future, which was not yet possible in Austria. This is a blatant progress, an essential step forward in combating tax fraud in the international and in every other area. After all, this is 100 million euros a year, which comes from this area, namely money, which is also due to the Fiscus, the budget, and where every honest small taxpayer is annoyed, why the greats can prevent this from happening again and again. A bar will finally be pushed forward to him. We will certainly still experience it in the next few years, as perhaps some well-known name will stumble over that, in the case of money laundering suspicions, his tax sins are also being detected at once. Let me also briefly mention the bank levy, because the increase in the bank levy to € 640 million The annual volume is an essential step in that, even if you no longer want to hear it, the financial sector will pay back the costs of crisis management and ultimately the cost of hypo-rehabilitation. Finally still to the GmbH light. So that there is no misunderstanding, honourable Members who constantly criticize this: It remains the privilege of the GmbH light; it also remains the minimum-coast, namely 500 €, 1 000 € and then, after ten years, to 1,750 €. And with this both are done, namely, preventing a loophole where GmbHs, which have been around for a long time, are setting up and thus saving taxes, while at the same time getting the new founders the privilege of the GmbH light and doing so financially easier. And we have also done one thing right, because we have ‘privileged’ this inconvenient addition, which, in the opinion of many lawyers, should have been involved, because I also consider it necessary in the sense of the founders that a GmbH is simply registered as a GmbH, and if it is young, everyone knows anyway that it is a light, and when it is older, everyone knows that it is one according to already existing law. In this sense, I see in this tax-amendment law progress on essential points towards greater fiscal justice.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e10925	Mrs Klubobfrau Dr. Nachbaur has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e10947	Dear representatives on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear taxpayers! I would like to say briefly at the beginning that, even if I am the first to work for women, I will largely refrain from this gender in my speeches, because I do not believe that women are really doing something – and, secondly, I think that this also complicates my, but actually every speech. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ.]] Complicated is not only all about the subject of Hypo Alpe-Adria, which, as we know, will cost us a lot of money due to the wear and will also bring some tax increase. In principle, all laws are complicated – and that is what I say as a lawyer. During each legislative period, new legislative texts are produced on about 60,000 pages. This is often not very practical, and every smallest detail is required. With us everything is totally overregulated. I demand that at least two old laws, so to speak, be classified for every new law that is passed here. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] In fact, the State should only intervene where a clear and binding regulation is needed. This would save us a lot of bureaucracy and also make our entrepreneurs competitive again. The citizens do not need any constant forethought and regulation, but – on the contrary! – more freedom and opportunities to develop. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] In Austria, public funds are managed in more than 5,000 different budgets. Because of these many different budgets and distributed payment flows, there are actually fewer and fewer people who have an overview, but for this more and more politicians who interfere in matters. That's why I'm saying: It is high time for a uniform budget law to drastically reduce the number of budgets. There must be a method of settlement which is the same for all budgets. This is the only way to restore transparency and people's confidence. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The reason why we are still relatively good in Austria despite the high level of unemployment and despite the high taxes is that we have so many hard-working employees and entrepreneurs in our country. The Austrian entrepreneurs are great and often world leaders, precisely because of their innovative strength and their diligence, but it really has to feel like they are swimming with concrete shoes. And the shoe size has become even bigger because of this new load and load package by at least two numbers. A few concrete shoes are also available for motorists, smokers and sect drinkers. Contracts with local wine-growers wake up, but Prosecco continues to exist without tax increase. Tanti auguri!, you can only say that. [[Abg. May. Arbitrators: That's not true at all!]] On all levels, the bureaucracy is in the way – with screw closure, okay. [[Abg. May. Arbitrators: This only applies to those with screw fasteners!]] – On all levels the bureaucracy is in the way and the tax burden is slow, but safe. Austria is already a high tax country; we have a tax rate of more than 45 percent – and yet the government is constantly taking a new path to further increase taxes, because it is simply spending more and more than it takes every year. There's a trust in the government. Together with all the taxes and taxes we all have to pay, especially the entrepreneurs, we come to a total tax of 65 percent. That's actually bordering expropriation soon. Of course, the official tax rate, as has been said, is 45 percent modest. But even if you calculate it this way, it makes us one of the most taxed countries in the world. In comparison, Switzerland has a tax rate of around 35 percent, and when I was last in Switzerland, I did not notice that there are social breakdowns and huge social problems there. So there's something wrong with us; there's a lot of money wasted in the administration, the state wasted itself with the hard-worked money of the citizens. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We have a chance to get back on a good path – and with “we” I mean not only the Stronach team, but the politicians of all parties. I believe that we must rely on the many entrepreneurs and self-employed people in our country who are doing one thing, namely creating jobs and prosperity. [[New condolences with the Stronach team.]] There are about half a million self-employed people in Austria, and I admire everyone who has the martial spirit and the courage to become self-employed. I would like to know for myself what is good for these people attractive framework conditions, that they are also entrusted with knowing for themselves what is good for them. I'm sure everyone knows for themselves whether he wants to join a chamber or not, and everyone knows for themselves when he wants to open his shop and when. The state is not always supposed to take advantage of everything and make regulations that still tax half or more of the money, in order to re-distribut almsen-like. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I believe in the self-determination of people, the diligence of entrepreneurs, who create jobs. I am pleased to hear that the additional wage costs are reduced – in that case also praise to the government – which are at the moment already so high that an entrepreneur has to calculate 18 months for the salary of an employee, because the year has only 12 months! I have often spoken on the subject of banking tax. I have no pleasure with the development of the banking tax new, because in reality it is a huge incentive for the banks, instead of giving boring loans, prefer to speculate wildly, and I think that is going in the wrong direction. Derivatives should not be outsourced and the real economy should not be taxed more strongly. Wyman has also made a second study, not only on the hypo, and it has been found that the Austrian credit institutions already have much higher burdens than all others in Europe. The German institutions pay €500 million annually for this bank tax at about ten times as large as the balance sheet, and for our much smaller institutions, € 640 million are raised. And who, do you think, will pay that? – The real economy; the entrepreneurs! It's going to get lost, and it's damaging our economy. I very much urge the government to take this into account. In addition, I hope that one day we will introduce the separation banking system. Air operations must be stopped, on the other hand, the real economy needs to be strengthened. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] If the framework conditions in Austria were more attractive and uncomplicated and one imagines that every small Austrian company could only hire one employee more, we would have virtually no unemployment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e11060	I call Mr Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e11082	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! In one case, I agree with Mrs Nachbaur: In Austria we have diligent and innovative entrepreneurs and successful and diligent employees. This is certainly also part of the success secret of the Austrian economic location and the good economic figures. [[Abg. Ing. Hoebart: And the extruded businessman!]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are adopting a tax-amendment law today. We must not forget that it is a law which provides a basis for budget creation and, above all, for the way to a balanced budget. Our goal is to have a balanced budget in 2016, which is why some measures are necessary. I've been on the road a lot lately and I've talked to many entrepreneurs. A clear message that we have heard everywhere is – and I know it very well from my own company – that you can't spend more than you take. Because everything you spend has to be done before. Therefore, the reduction of public debt must be our highest objective. I think that is a very important point, and here we should also make a common effort. If today – and there you already have to leave the church in the village – Mr. Strache – he is unfortunately not here now – speaks of an increase in the insolvency rate, that is not true. It is quite simple fact that the number of insolvencys in 2013 was not higher than in 2012. We have the highest employment rate in our country. Yeah, and we've got unemployed right now, of course. We have too many unemployed, but that is why we take over €350 million with the work package and see that together with the companies we bring the workers back into employment. We have 2.2 million employees in SMEs. I believe that we have just kept these small and medium-sized enterprises from paying property and substance taxes, that they can continue to hand over businesses – and I mentioned this this morning already – to 58 000 businesses for the transfer of assets without tax. Mrs Glawischnig, when you speak of the appreciation for businesses, I think that the Economic Federation and the ÖVP are the ones who are most appreciative of and also committed to entrepreneurs. We now see this very clearly in this package: The profit-free amount remains unchanged. That is, this equality of 13th and 14ths. The self-employed have continued to pay with the workers, which is a very, very important measure. The reasons should also be further attractive and simple, and we make this possible with this GmbH reform. Although the craftsman bonus is not on the agenda today, one thing is certain: He'll come. This is an important and right measure, which is the first step towards an essential point, namely to less puss and, of course, to a win-win situation. The craftsman has something of that and the consumer has something of it. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: It's nowhere!]] [[Abg. Ing. Höbart: When? Where's the craftsman bonus?]] Here we are in a good way. I say quite clearly to you once again: Also, the reduction in the additional wage costs, which is being introduced today – at least €200 million – is a real step – for the first time a change in the rate of additional wage costs, not an increase, but a reduction. So, ladies and gentlemen, in a difficult situation, this package is equipped with impulses that are also important for the economy in this respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e11145	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Alm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e11166	Mr President. Dear Members on the Government Bank! Some progress has been made from the first draft of the tax-amending law to this day. The Chamber of Commerce – you can say that – has given up the pressure of the self-employed, the middle class fighters of the Economic Federation have fought and two weeks ago presented a 5-point package for the economy. Or in other words: The ÖVP has negotiated with itself. What was exchanged in return is not quite clear. At least today we stand where we were about eight months ago; just hold a little worse than before. To sell this as a success is quite steep, Mr. Lopatka – who is not here. In the case of a profit-free amount, everything remains the same as before. Instead of investing in the real economy, it is now necessary to invest in residential bonds. For example, would it not have been possible to use the Federal Treasure instead? Very many self-employed people have invested precisely in this federal treasure, and there too one would have the lever can be set up and an investment obligation must be entered. This would have saved us effort, and we could have thought immediately about whether we would not complete the investment obligation. In the case of the GmbH, on the other hand, only more confusion remains. The minimum-coast is to be scaled upwards over time. That means a company doesn't make profits for years and still has to pay more taxes for it. Shouldn't it be exactly the other way around? Should not the corporate tax already paid be recovered if profitability is difficult to achieve? We want to go one step further and completely eliminate the minimum cold. That is why, together with the Stronach team, I shall also put forward the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Let the companies make profits, then they will also pay more taxes! A few years ago, the reduction of Köst from 34 to 25 percent has proved that tax access is paying off, because then tax revenue increases. And let us not only delete the minimum-coast, but also remove the pointless addition “privileged”. The fact that this addition to the business papers is no longer mentioned, but only in the company book, is a prime example of the social partnership compromise: Each side wants to preserve its face, so the addition is hidden and removed where it is not immediately seen, but is all the more superfluous, namely in the company book. Where everyone can read anyway how high the capital is and when the company was founded. That's cockbucks. Mr Schieder – no longer here – speaks of a privilege. This is no privilege. The reduction of the minimum stock capital is an adjustment to the European average, not a privilege. With the profit-free amount and the GmbH light, we have thus reached a state that corresponds to the starting position after a completely unnecessary, multi-month show struggle. The non-removability of work performance from a certain level has not been reversed. But this is probably done at the latest by the VfGH for the government, as well as in the current construction of the craftsman bonus, as can be read in the newspapers today, or the craftsman bonus. Summary: So the government has done nothing for the economy in the last half year, especially for the EPCs and SMEs, except not to make things as bad as it threatens. We have lost one in particular, namely time. We would rather argue about which ideas are the best to solve upcoming challenges. I was at a New Economy Initiative event last week. Someone said the following: I'm a graphic artist. I'm working digital. And that's why my competition is global. That's an incredible insight. Even the service sector in the creative economy today has to face a global competition and price struggle. The much praised ability today is only more hygiene factor. It's nice if the Austrians are praised on every occasion, but that's not enough. What we need is entrepreneurship. What we need is innovation. Of course, entrepreneurship is not limited to the owners of the companies. This also develops with many employees, many of whom, sooner or later, would like to be involved in the companies for which they are now working. The challenge for us is therefore to create better opportunities for employee participation. This is possible, but very cumbersome. The second point I mentioned is innovation. Innovation not only means having an idea, but also bringing it to market maturity. And quickly, because the competition is indeed global. A very simple tool to increase the speed of development is money. I mean, not promotions, but private venture capital. We need framework conditions that make it attractive for private to invest in young, innovative companies. The collection of a minimum corporate tax is not helpful. The ideas are there. Private capital is here. But merging the two together is not very attractive and abundantly complicated. Such a development as WhatsApp would have been possible in Austria as well, and it is a staircase of daily policy that the purchase price of this company is at the same level as the losses caused by the hypo. We clearly invest in the wrong things. So what can we do better? - I have a proposal with you. One way to promote innovation and entrepreneurship is by means of the “Small-AG”. Many of the needs of companies cannot be adequately served by the GmbH. This form of company is over a hundred years old. It is well suited for companies with regular sales and stable ownership. The GmbH does not meet the requirements that start-ups face at the start of their activities. The financing of innovations via cash flow is too slow, bank loans are more difficult to get than ever before. For private investors, the GmbH has significant disadvantages: Notarial acts for the acquisition and sale of holdings, certifications of various shareholder decisions, which have authority to do so, are complex and expensive. There is little flexibility in receiving capital. The legal requirements are missing for management and employee participation programmes. Although the GmbH secures the direct influence and limits the risk, it is inflexible compared to the AG, which, in return, causes high costs. In a ‘Small-AG’, the advantages of both companies can be combined under the following characteristics: We assume a basic capital of € 20 000 and facilitate the acquisition of equity. Supervisory and statutory auditory obligations only exist if certain thresholds are exceeded at balance sheet sum, turnover or number of employees. Conditional and approved capital as well as the acquisition of own shares are treated as in the stock company. At the same time, there is the possibility of any changeover to a normal AG. And since all of this really sounds reasonable, I make the following request to the appropriate support: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e11297	The two selected applications are properly submitted, sufficiently supported and are therefore under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e11413	Mr Spindelegger spoke on an opinion. Please, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e11434	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, let me emphasize the big line. This spring, we will have to present a budget 2014/2015 to the House and a financial framework by 2018. The first step is taken. This was the step in defining the savings of each department by law. We have therefore submitted a budget commission to the House on a legal basis and have committed €500 million of savings over all sectors in the discretion expenditure. This first step has been taken so that no one can give the impression that we have only planned tax increases, ladies and gentlemen. Now we are on the second step. Yes, these are fiscal measures in the tax-change law, unpleasant enough, we all know that. No one likes to raise taxes. But we can also maintain the objective in this regard. The goal is to make a first effort so that we do not make new debts in 2016, and that is a worthwhile goal. And once again I insist, it is necessary to also have a balanced budget from 2016 on. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And the third step, ladies and gentlemen, will be the budget accompanying law. There, of course, we will also have to introduce reform measures which will subsequently bring us corresponding changes in the budget and thus, in the perspective, also changes in the Republic. But let me now come to the tax-change law itself. There, too, is not everything black and white, as it is described today. It is not that the Prosecco is excluded. Of course, it is also inclusive, but the cheapest marks, as they exist today, cannot be included with screw closures under European law. All the others are involved, of course, so that there are also equal conditions of competition. Of course, it is not that the GmbH will be abolished again at once, a total nonsense. And if this represents Mrs. Klubobfrau Glavischnig, I can only tell her that she did not seem to have read it. We leave the privileges for the re-foundation of a GmbH. Thank God! You can still serve a GmbH with 10 000 € capital instead of 35 000 €. And you only have a minimum corporate tax of 500 €. Thank God! But the privileges that exist refer to the re-foundation and not to the existing GmbHs, that is the difference, and we have created clarity with this tax-amendment law. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: What does “privilegies” mean?]] As far as the questions of steering effects are concerned, I have to say that there is a need to look at them more deeply. I think it's right that we're only going in the direction of NoVA, that we're saying it's about CO2 emissions, and it's taxed. This means that what is harmful to the environment will also be subject to tax. That is the right measure – and not the fuel consumption or diesel consumption of a vehicle. These too are steering effects, to which you can stand absolutely. Then let me also address the structural measures. This is also part of the colorful picture of this tax-change law. We will abolish company tax from 2016. It was a long-standing call for the economy to do so, and that is what is in the tax-change law. It was true. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Secondly, A long-term claim of the smaller company was that we no longer view 150 € as a measurement, but 400 €. This is also foreseen. I note that this will bring relief to many smaller entrepreneurs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] So let me say: Yes, of course this also serves to enable us to achieve our objective with these tax measures. It is necessary that we increase one thing or another, that we change something, but also towards more steering, more ecologisation, and also in tobacco and alcohol an increase in the tax. But I think this is justified. You can stand for that, as I mean. Let me therefore come to the third step in the field of counter-taxing. It is also right to respond to the current situation today in the House after an agreement last week. We have not seen as much unemployment as we have in this year. Therefore, something must also be done especially in the direction of older employees. We have therefore agreed that we are now setting out the right signals with measures of redeployment between active and passive labour market management, namely for businesses a reintegration aid, so that older workers get more opportunities on the labour market. I think that's perfectly right. And we have also provided for the second labour market, so that the very ones who have not entered the work process for so many years have a chance. Therefore, it is justified to invest €350 million in this direction over this period. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, we have also planned a second measure: a reduction in additional labour costs; this is also a symbolic act. We'll be on the 1st. In July of this year, take the first step, make a small reduction in the accident insurance contribution, and at the beginning of next year at the Insolvency Remuneration Fund, so that entrepreneurs also know that something is being done for them, and not only will additional wage costs be increased, but they will also be reduced. What we can represent is also included in this whole project. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let me therefore conclude. Yes, measures are also put in the form of tax increases. But I assume that you, too, have not forgotten that we have an economic situation where we have to say that we are not out of the crisis, but we also now have many measures to take to better get out of the crisis. That is why this tax-amendment law also requires measures in tax law. But the goal is to achieve a structural zero deficit in 2016. This is the goal that we are working on as a whole federal government, and the reason why we are setting up measures so that Austria can go better again from 2016 onwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e11496	Mrs Bayr has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e11519	Mr President. Minister! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! State Secretary! I would like to speak against the general trend towards item 2. This is about Austria leaving the UN free of charge the equipment we have used on the Golan so far. The time value of this device, especially fixed material, is € 166 000. The cost of the return transport would be more than that time value in total. The decision to leave the Golan in early summer 2013 – for security reasons due to the situation in Syria – is a fact. The United Nations has asked us to leave the equipment to them. For example, this is about a kitchen, about a field lazarette, about field stickers, about equipment such as transporters or about containers. The UN can still use this equipment very well, they have asked if we can leave these goods to them. We do so respectfully through a gift of a free loan for the period of use. I think that this device will help to carry on this peace mission well, as well as manifesting something like a good understanding with the United Nations and continuing to be a kind of symbolic support for this UNDOF mission. As a result of the 2013 deduction, human capacity for other foreign operations has, of course, become free. I think it is right and important that, if there is a UN mandate, the Austrian federal army will continue to participate in international peacekeeping efforts, be it now on the question of peacekeeping or peacebuilding. As an Austrian, we are relatively good at implementing UN resolution 1325. This is about including those who would normally be victims, especially women, civilians and children, in the post-war construction measures. This UN resolution 1325 provides for the inclusion of women in such reconstruction measures in particular, and for the fact that they do not necessarily rebuild the country, but rather rebuild it, because if it were to be rebuilt immediately, the danger would be very great that it might return to the same conflict as before. A new construction of fragile states where there is really a good governance, where there is a strong civil society, but where there is also a social and economic system that is on good feet, is an important step for the future of such states. I am sure that Austria will continue to make its international contribution in the future. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e11557	It is the next Member of the European Parliament to speak. DDr. Fuchs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e11578	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! High house! Values Advisors on the ranks! Our objective must be to make Austrian tax law simpler and fairer. However, an analysis of the Tax Change Act 2014 shows that tax law is neither easier nor fairer by this law. The tax-change law is a step in the wrong direction. This tax-change law mainly includes tax increases and does not include tax-structural reforms. If the SPÖ in its press release believes that this is a contribution to greater tax justice and that this will create more room for investment, I wonder what the SPÖ means by tax justice. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Approximately half of the additional tax revenue is achieved by increasing excise duties. This concerns, for example, motor insurance tax, nova and tobacco tax. However, excise duties are mass taxes and affect regardless of the level of income. This will disproportionately increase the burden on taxable persons with low earnings. This load package of the medium-sized group is over-proportionally burdened more disproportionately. An average family loses more by increasing taxes than by increasing family aid from 1. ==References== We liberals imagine tax justice differently! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In addition, this law complicates existing regulations, such as the annual exact interest rates of long-term provisions and the corresponding transitional arrangements. To a large extent, the tax-amending law is contrary to the objective of effect 1 of the UG 16, public taxes, according to a simple, slender and performance-oriented design of the tax system. This has also been noted by the budget service. Furthermore, this law establishes rules that cost more than they bring in the administration. For example, the expansion of the limited tax liability for domestic interest income of non-EU nationals only brings revenue of approximately €5 million per year. The administration of this scheme, in particular the processing of the refund applications, will exceed the 5 million in the case of an item. In addition, this new regulation is a disaster for the Vienna financial centre. In a short or long time, there will be a massive capital outflow from Austria, especially as regards funds from non-EU countries. For group taxation: The purpose of the cross-border group taxation is to be ‘limited’ spatially to EU and DBA countries with comprehensive official assistance under the new regime, under quotations. This is not a physical restriction, because at present we have a corresponding agreement with almost 70 states, and there will be additional states. In addition, the money laundering and terrorist financing risk regulation lists States where there is at least an increased risk of money laundering or terrorist financing. Since there is a large amount of official assistance with some of these countries, group formation would continue to be possible under the new regime with capital companies from those countries. By the way, cross-border group taxation has in the past led to massive reductions in corporate tax revenue. The old and new regime of cross-border group taxation is still too generous and means that the Federal Government is kneeling in front of the large corporations. We therefore call for a restriction of cross-border group taxation on capital companies in Member States of the European Union and the European Economic Area. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let me conclude by saying: Due to the failure of the Federal Government in connection with the hypo disaster, the population will receive another huge tax wave. We may be anxious to see what burdens can be expected under the 2014 Budgetary Accompaniment Act. According to rumors, inheritance and gift taxes are to be reintroduced by accident. A clear no to this tax-amendment law! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is not a tax-structural reform, but a purely medium-sized tax package.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e11719	The amendment tabled is sufficiently supported and properly submitted and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e11800	Next speaker: Mrs Tamandl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e11821	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin with the amendment tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Zakostelsky and Jan Krainer will bring to the tax-change law, which I will explain in the cornerstones. In addition to two editorial changes, for example, in terms of group taxation and losses, the fact that losses incurred are not subject to post-taxation is subject to, for example, losses in marketing years prior to the 1st century. On 1 March 2014, a number of foreign firms or establishments were set up in the United States. January 2017 to be abandoned or sold. A second change in group taxation is a clarification as to the abolition of company depreciation. The issue is that there are transitional provisions, for example, in the case of participations which are due to re-establishment in a new group. Furthermore, in this amendment, it is also to be found that the rehabilitation allowance, the one with the 1. January 2014 has entered into force, tax treatment is to be done in the same way as the sickness benefit. That is to say, this is also an adjustment that was necessary under the 2012 Social Law Amendment Act. We will no longer agree with the opposition on the tax-change law. We have seen this in committee too. Unfortunately, the same points are repeatedly raised, such as the abolition of the GesmbH, or, for example, that we are now so horrendous in the profit-free amount. I think we all agree here that we need funds for building apartments. If we have now changed the securities into housing bonds, I tell you that it is also good because we need money for housing. That is what we are all agreed on, I think, and that is why I believe that this is a good solution. As far as I am concerned in the whole debate – some have said it, but the opposition is always trying to hide it – are, for example, the points that are in place for the fight against fraud in this tax-amendment law, such as the fact that the suspicion of money laundering can now be used very well, for example, with regard to the Financial Penal Code. That was not the case before. That is, one could know that one could reveal it, one could show it, but it actually had no consequences. I would have expected the opposition to be said here once: Yes, that's a good approach! Or, for example, that there are now certainly reporting possibilities or reporting obligations between financial and social security – because wage dumping is always being put into space here, or that there is no good means of control. This is also set out in the tax-change law. As far as the NoVA – Mr Strache mentioned it – is concerned, I think that this is a steering effect. As far as larger CO2 emissions are concerned, which are over 250 grams per kilometer, there is also a malus program of 20 €. I think that's necessary. But as far as these cars are concerned, it is perhaps 700 cars each year of a five-digit registration number, and these 700 cars we have achieved very well. What is particularly important to me is that we have 1. January 2015 has a change that diesel and petrol engines will be taxed at NoVA as of 1 January 2015. September 2014 – which we have already decided here in the House – almost only receive Euro-6 diesel engines, which are simply more environmentally friendly, because we have already passed several laws in recent years. All in all, I believe it helps to achieve our goal and achieve the zero deficit in 2016. All of us sitting inside here want us to be free There are many problems in Austria: on the one hand, funds are available for education, on the other hand, resources are available for the labour market, and resources are available for a comprehensive tax reform. That is why I am particularly pleased that we are starting today with the proposal that we have tabled, with 350 million euros for the labour market, especially as regards older workers. I think that's quite, absolutely necessary. In my opinion, the reduction in the cost of wages can only be a first step. But the first step is always the right step to the goal.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e11897	The application was submitted in accordance with § 53 para. 4 GOG to the MEPs. It is properly introduced, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e12065	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e12088	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! If I have to hear from the government parties again and again: We will achieve a balanced budget in 2016, a balanced structural deficit!, then I must say: How am I supposed to judge that? All the documents are missing! What you have presented to us so far was a budget procedure with cuts in discretionary expenditure, and now you are submitting us a tax-change law with tax increases. But we have no idea how the budget path looks. We have no idea what the remaining measures to achieve this structural zero deficit will look like. In fact, we have no idea how high the budget hole is. I recall that sometime in the negotiations, it was about €40 billion, and it has gradually become smaller. But how high it really is, we don't know! At least we cannot understand it – not yet! That's what we're going to do on 29 October. April, when the government documents are introduced, look very closely. If we have to assess these tax increases here and today, I think that we can only say no to them as long as we do not know what the budget path really looks like. How can we say something if we don't know what's going on? If Mrs Tamandl said, yes, we as opposition parties would never have said anything positive about what is in it, that is not true. In the Financial Committee, I have expressly highlighted some of the issues in this tax-amendment law as positive. This begins with limiting the tax deductibility of manager salaries, which is about abolishing the company's depreciation value and about restrictions on group taxation. In particular, I have stressed the impossibility of profit-shifts at least in part by restricting the deductibility of interest and license fees to group-member companies, and much more. But, of course, there are many things in this tax-change law that are very likely to be criticised. A question, for example: In 2013, € 5.1 billion of taxes were deducted; 4.1 billion in the context of the opening balance, 1 billion in the preliminary performance of 2013, have been permanently written off or adjusted. I have not even received an answer from the Minister for Finance! But this is about as much as this entire savings package/tax increase package in total over the years to 2018. I finally want an answer. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] However, we also have to criticise other areas, in particular the increase in excise duties. The excise duties on tobacco/alcohol taxes are, in particular, the low incomes, because there is simply a link between low incomes on the one hand and smokers on the other. This is so; by the way, it is also in the opinion of the Budget Service. So here we do not have the creation and production of tax justice, but rather the strengthening of control rights. Where, then, are the so-called structural reforms promised before the election? – SPÖ has fully announced a reduction in wage and income tax by €3 billion, financed by so-called millionaire taxes, capital-related taxes. Where's that? And to the side of the ÖVP: The then Mr. Vice-Chancellor has always said: Well, you can only talk to me about tax cuts! But the first thing he does now is: He's raising taxes! Finally, one point I would like to pay a little attention to, because I also think that something strange has already been done here, namely in connection with the bank levy. The increase in the additional levy is all right, but what the normal part of the bank levy is about, is that the derivative-related part – where speculation takes place – has simply fallen away! In other words, where one can achieve steering effects, and where the large speculations take place, this has fallen under the table in favour of a change in the basis of assessment, but thus also at the expense of a distribution of this bank levy within the banking sector, that is, away from the large banks, from the largest banks, to medium and smaller banks. You have to explain that to me first. When it comes to covering the big ones, because they are so much responsible for this crisis, it must also be new in the context of a bank levy to think about how a bank levy can look with the inclusion of derivatives, even if it is difficult. I know it was taken away because those banks that have companies or daughters abroad were able to deal with these derivatives solutions. It would have been useful to consider how to create this scheme or to move forward at European level. But I haven't experienced anything like it. And since I would like to re-examine these effects and the effects of this re-orientation of the bank's levy, because the burden of the larger and, in particular, the inclusion of the speculative element is important to me, I would like to make the following referral request: Reference request by Mr Willi, Mr Rossmann, Mr Colleagues The Members of Parliament who are subscribing shall request: the report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (24 d.a._Other Organiser The Federal Act, which amends the Income Tax Act 1988, the Corporate Tax Act 1988, the Stability Tax Act, the Reform Tax Act, the Income Tax Act 1994, the Fee Tax Act 1957, the Tax Act 1957, the Insurance Tax Act 1953, the Car tax Act 1992, the Flight Tax Act, the Standard Tax Law 1991, the Alcohol Tax Act, the Sparkling Tax Act 1995, the Tobacco Tax Act 1995, the Gambling Act 1995, the German Tax Code, the Tax Code, the Tax Code 2010, the Financial Penal Code, the Federal Financial Law, the Banking Act, the Stock Exchange Act 1989, the Insurance Supervisory Act, the GmbH Act, the Notarial Tax Act, the Law, the Company Code and the Payment Services Act, and Section VIII of the Federal Act BGBl. No. 325/1986 is repealed (Impendance Amendment Act 2014 – AbgÄG 2014) and on amendments 164/A(E) by Dr Kathrin Nachbaur, colleagues on the stability levy, 165/A(E) by Dr Kathrin Nachbaur, colleagues on the Economic Protection Pact, 205/A(E) by Mr Mag. Nikolaus Alm, colleagues with regard to the new regulation of the benefit-free contribution in the Income Tax Act, and 206/A(E) of Deputies Mag. Nikolaus Alm, colleagues concerning the establishment of a “Zero” GmbH (31 d.b.) according to § 53 para. 6 Z 2 GOG to refer again to the Financial Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e12209	Next speaker: Mr Ing. May. Kuzdas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e12231	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Today's law essentially pursues three objectives or motives: to prevent unwanted tax planning, to close to the second tax gap; to the third, to achieve certain peuniary motivations for behavioural change especially in the ecological and so-called public baths, i.e. alcohol and tobacco. Steering measures in the area of income tax law, corporate tax law, banking law, to name just a few, are launched here. Ecologisty measures, health measures, corporate financing measures and measures to increase tax justice and, of course, to secure the budget path. If, on the one hand, it is criticized that the review has been far too short, and on the other hand, it is criticized that it has been negotiated too much with representatives of the Chamber of Labour and the Chamber of Commerce, I think: It is precisely the negotiations with the Chamber of Labour and Economics, with the social partners, that have paid off because it is just a balanced package. For example, in the case of passenger car charges. It is clear that low consumption vehicles, such as the VW Golf, will be significantly cheaper, that the sprit eaters will be taxed higher. But there are also health policy steering measures, i.e. incentives to refrain from alcohol and tobacco. This is supposed to have a controlling effect. As my previous speaker, Mr Rossmann, raised the following questions: They have given a part of the answer themselves to the question of why it is a new basis of assessment. The initiatives at European level, Mr President, are not quite as simple. You know that, too. As in the past, bank institutions are affected by the new base of assessment from € 1 billion in total balance sheet, and smaller bank institutions with a smaller balance sheet amount are not affected. This will ensure that banks make a significant contribution to securing the Austrian financial market. Ladies and gentlemen! In total, since the bank rescue package in October 2008, banks have delivered more than €2 billion in interest for participation capital; as of the title Bank levy so far, €1.7 billion, and there will also be more. It is good that, at the time, social democracy has prevailed against the resistance of many, because it is an essential contribution to greater tax justice, and also a contribution to the banks supporting their financial market in Austria itself, helping themselves so that everything is not spent on taxpayers. If you look at what we expect from the bank levy on additional revenue, you can say: Until the time when the hypo may be We will have taken at least as much as possible through the bank levy. This is also an important step towards greater justice, and also a step in the right direction to reduce small incomes.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e12286	Now comes Mr. Ing. Lugar speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e12307	Mr President. High house! If you look at the tax-amending law, you can see that something is right that Mr Leitel has so aptly addressed. Mr Leitel has assumed that in our beautiful democracy, the Minister of Finance does not rule, but his officials. Mr Leitl claimed that whenever the Minister of Finance has good ideas, the officials simply turn it off and go to the agenda; and Mr Leitl knows very well in the Austrian Constitution. Those who don't believe this now just look at what was done at the NoVA. The NoVA would be a good thing to control, and so is the law. It is in the law that the NoVA is there to drive towards cars that emit less pollutants. If you look more closely at the NoVA, you can see that it is a pure penalty tax on all cars and it's all about getting money. [[Abg. May. Arbitrators: No, cars will be cheaper!]] – Mr Schieder says that the cars will also be cheaper. Which cars will be cheaper? [[Abg. May. Arbitrator: Audi A3!]] Do you call me a car that emits under 90 grams? There are not many. There are not many cars in Austria that emit less than 90 grams; and all cars that emit over 90 grams are punished. The “best” thing about it is that you can also reward those cars that emit more than 250 grams with your lid. You have introduced a lid that will reward Maybachs with 500 hp, Hummer with 400 hp, Ferrari with 600 hp, because if there is no lid, you will have to pay much more, and you have just introduced this lid with 32 percent. Who's the use of this? – This, of course, only benefits the ÖVP client who can afford such cars; but not those who have to buy a family car, a family van if they may have five children. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach]] They are asked for the cash register, because of course such cars have a higher CO2 emissions. Is not at all possible because of the larger frontal area. In other words, these cars are also subject to additional loads, although families are already struggling! If you look at the whole thing even more closely, you get the following: If it were really about environmental protection, then you would have made the NOVA negative, because the law is expressly – and I will then make an amendment – that it would not be a tax credit if the NoVA were to become negative. So all cars that emit less than 90 grams – which would be positive – and even the electric cars, which do not emit any CO2, are not particularly promoted! Instead of doing so, you have just introduced a cover above to support the 8,000 car owners that are beyond the 400 or 500 hp, and all those 500 or 600 people who are likely to buy an electric car this year are not supported. [[Abg. Obernoster: Now you've got something confused!]] This is also the reason why this law will not do anything to protect the environment. If you don't believe this, you just need to look at the numbers. The Ministry of Finance predicts the same income from the NOVA each year. Now explain to me how this works when you say on the one hand that you want consumers to get to cars that do little, and on the other hand, you see their numbers that you don't believe that? It's not, either, because you can't control with this NoVA. That's the problem! One more thing that the motor-related insurance tax is going to be: That's where you'll see: It's just about taking off! If environmental protection were important to you, you would have agreed on standard consumption as well as not on PS. At the moment, it's a modern car that emits little CO2, but has a lot of PS, paid more than an old dump with little PS, but also a lot of CO2 emissions. That's the problem! The problem is that, in fact, the officials are ruling and not the Minister of Finance. Mr Leitel said that, and Mr Leitel knows what he is talking about. On this point you have to finally get over it once. If you really want to move something as a minister, you must also put your officials in the barriers and not always raise taxes. Structural reforms – that is what we need in this country! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] In order to see if you are actually willing to do something for environmental protection, we propose the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] That's what I said earlier: All those cars that are actually environmentally friendly will be favoured, and all those cars that now favor you, from 250 grams, will be extra burdened. That would be good in terms of environmental protection. Therefore, support this amendment! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e12416	The amendment is sufficiently supported, properly introduced and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e12471	Next speaker: Mr Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e12492	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! First of all, the following preliminary remarks: As Mr Hagen has messed up both seamen and places this morning, I would like to draw attention to the following: It is Steinerkirchen on the Traun and not Steinerkirchen on the Trattnach. It is the mayor Johann Auer, not Jakob Auer; and the mayor Johann Auer has continued to function and has not resigned, as has been claimed on your part. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] But that's what it's like most of the time: One claims something, mentions something – and it's already going to hang out, it doesn't play a role like that. Mr. colleague, if so, you should at least ask yourself better – and then explain the facts here. Ladies and gentlemen, the tax-amendment law – quite simply to accept in some respects, no question at all – is necessary in order to achieve an orderly budget of the federal government in the future. For such budget measures, it is usually noteworthy that the federal states are quietly and quietly rubbing their hands, and that the municipal government and the municipal government are very pleased because they are participating in more revenue. That's remarkable. On the spot, some critical speech is made, but in reality one is delighted with the revenue. Of course, it is important to have a structurally-arranged deficit in 2016 in order to be able to budget balance; and the measures to be decided today are not non-fractionary. On some points they hurt, I give it quite openly, no question at all. I also say quite openly that I agree with some wrath, with some pain. But I will agree because I do not want to make the opposition the pleasure of blaming myself, I would make client policy. But on one point I am already saying what Mr Rossmann has made clear: If the increase in the bank levy is already so, it should be imposed on those who caused this disaster, and not on those who have certainly not caused this malaise under free leadership in Carinthia, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Podgorschek: Yes, yes!]] The fact is that this hypo disaster presents us with budgetary difficulties. The fact is that this also requires action, and the fact is that this has happened under a FPÖ head of state Jörg Haider in Carinthia. Let us hold on to that, no one can pass, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] Since Mr Strache – who is not here now – said that the large banks were spared, because that was the Raiffeisen system, I would point out that the Raiffeisen Landesbanks, i.e. the regional banks, have the greatest burden to bear on this bank tax. I can only mention the form: The Raiffeisen-Landesbank Upper Austria will have to pay €34 million instead of €17.2 million as in the future. This means that the balance sheet amounts have to be returned in order to ensure that own resources are adequate, so that the basis is finished. This ultimately means a little less credit for the economy. Whether the point is, I dare doubt. If this bank, the Raiffeisen-Landesbank, were in Passau, ladies and gentlemen, it would have to pay a total of €5 million in bank charges, and that in a fund serving the bank rescue. That is why I would ask you to think at some point about whether there would be a more just solution.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e12564	Mr Klubobmann spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e12585	Mr President. Estimated government members! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear citizens at home on the screens and on the visitor gallery! The tax-change law is our topic. First of all, I would like to express my appreciation for the fact that something has moved again. I think it is good to register as parliamentarians that there can be changes here in the parliamentary process of a legislative act. One could see, therefore, that if Members express their opinion, movement is also possible. I ask that the government also receive this mobility. I think this is a style that would really deserve the label of new style. Of course: The motion does not go far enough; I also say this as a note to the representatives of the Economic and Social Committee. Again, my criticism was served: I still do not agree with the way in which the Economic and Social Committee has played. That, on the one hand, Christoph Leitl, as the chairman of the Economic Federation, is building an extra-parliamentary opposition, is justified and correct in the matter, but that he does not accept the invitation to Parliament I do not think is okay. I think that is all the more important, because Leitl has convened a press conference a day before the committee in Parliament, in which he has announced the results of the following parliamentary deliberations. It's not my concept of democracy. I think this is pre-democratic. The major objective would, of course, be the relief of the factor of work. If we say that we have record unemployment, which we have and which we will have in the next few years, increasing further, then the goal must be to create jobs. It must also be the goal of creating an entrepreneurial Austria. Both are, however, largely not recognizable in this government package. I think that is the most tragic thing about this law that we are discussing today that it does not show a broad line. It is a flickering tape, which gives signals in the completely wrong direction. Under the rule, there is an increase in the tax and tax rate. So if you look at the forecasts, we're 45 percent now. To remember: Germany is 40 percent, and I do not mention Switzerland at all – beyond 30 percent. In this respect, Austria is in the absolute top group in Europe, and the trend is continuing to rise. This is, of course, job destruction, and this is also a clear sign to the entrepreneurs in this country: Please don't hire any more people! Before I came to Parliament, I took the lead in a small company. We had 16 people back then. At some point I'm going to be a businessman again, and one thing is clear to me: I’m going to hire as few people as possible because you don’t “press through it. ” With these signals, it's getting more expensive to hire people, you don't print this out as a small businessman! Prior to this decision, 400 000 people are in Austria every day: Do I get new people on board in my company or not? With this government package, the answer is clear: Please don't do it! For one thing is clear: We're going to kick you up like the christmas gans. [[Congratulations with NEOS and Team Stronach.]] So I wish you could turn around sometime, but that's not going to happen with this government. But something's always going on. That's why I have three very specific proposals and ask you to consider whether you can go along with them as government parties. Point one: a motion for a resolution on behalf of us NEOS, but also by the Stronach team, namely, the profit-free amount. I can remember that as an entrepreneur, I received brochures from Christoph Leitl and the Chamber of Commerce at the time, as the sixth arrangement and the equivalent for the 13th and 14th years. In addition, the Commission has taken the view that the Commission's assessment of the impact of the aid on the Union industry was based on the principle of equal treatment for men and women in the field of equal treatment for men and women in the field of equal treatment for men and women. These brochures praised what great achievement that was. In these brochures it was said that it was about tax justice. This tax justice is not guaranteed. If you really mean it with tax justice for the self-employed, then you have to delete the investment obligation completely. That would be tax justice. Therefore, the following application: [[Quoted print version removed]] I'm asking for a benevolent exam. Secondly, Resolution on employee participation. You have said in the government package that you want to strengthen employee participation. That's what we want, but we don't read anything about it in your legislative proposals. Therefore, we ask that the employee participation be increased from € 1 460 to €3 000. This is a very important means of bringing employees and workers into an emotional bond, into a long-term orientation of a company. This will allow sustainable economies to function. Resolution of Deputies Mag. Dr Matthias Strolz, colleagues The National Council wants to decide: ‘The Federal Government is invited to send a draft law to the National Council as soon as possible, thus replacing ‘EUR 3 000 annually’ in Article 3(1)(b) of the EStG.’. Finally, a motion for a resolution on the cancellation of rental contract fees, at least for under 35 years old. You plan this at the first rental contract For the purpose of the main residence. They have identified a theme for young people, for EPCs, for SMEs. Only that is not contained in your packages for concrete laws, and that's why we bring it in. Resolution of Deputies Mag. Dr Matthias Strolz, colleagues The National Council wants to decide: ‘The Federal Government is invited to submit to the National Council as soon as possible a draft law on the abolition of fees for rental contracts, lease contracts and other stock contracts.’ I ask for your consent for an entrepreneurial Austria. This is what we are talking about, and about jobs. That's what we're fighting for.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e12752	The motions for resolutions are sufficiently supported and properly submitted and are therefore under negotiation. The three applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e12896	Ms Mag. State Secretary has given his opinion on the matter. Reported on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party - Please, Mrs. State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e12917	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Klubobmann Strolz, I would like to inform you of one thing because of the government does not respond: Today, too, we, the government parties, will make an initiative in the National Council, with which we will decide 350 million € for measures for the labour market and 200 million € for the additional wage reduction. So I think the government is responding, and this should be accepted by you, Mr President. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] But now for the real thing, my very dear ones Ladies and gentlemen: Today's decision of the tax-amendment law is a further step. This will re-implement parts of the government programme. Today, the state from this package will take about €770 million, with around €1.2 billion in the coming years. Today, in the discussion, we have been talking about tax justice several times. Why we do this becomes clear when you look closer at the package, go into more detail and not only read the headlines, but also look more closely at the small print in the text of the law. Overall, the measures will generate around €5.5 billion in additional revenue by 2018. It should not be mentioned that this package also accounts for around €1.7 billion in additional revenue for the countries and communities. Mr Auer mentioned this briefly. Why is this package balanced? If you look at the figures, you will find that around €1.5 billion comes from corporate taxes by 2018 and €1.3 billion from measures that can be directly attributed to improved tax justice. Examples include the non-removability of manager's remunerations from half a million euros as well as the Kest duty for third-country nationals. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to delete the anti-profit-shifting rule in the case of the measures. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] For the FPÖ – ladies and gentlemen, because you have just returned to intermediate calls – I will, of course, be able to explain this further: We expect around €100 million from the implementation of this scheme. With a prohibition of deduction in the Corporate Tax Act, it is regulated that interest-rate or patent payments to recipients in low-tax countries are no longer subject to tax. Austria has a pioneering role in the sense of this anti-profit shifting rule. We have one of the strictest regulations in Europe. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Laws like these, such as this anti-profit shift, also have a hand-resistant background. For example, the EU Commission has announced in its estimate that EU countries will receive around € 1 trillion annually by hiding assets and profits from public authorities within the EU area. There is a need for a bundle of measures, and this ban on deduction is one of them. I am now also referring to the reform of group taxation: The reform of group taxation is another element of these various measures in addition to the anti-profit shifting. Finally, I would like to mention the bank levy, the so-called stability levy, which has also been mounted by some Members. With the bank tax, we will take approximately € 640 million annually. The basis of assessment has also been changed because various shifts have resulted from the derivatives and we now expect a higher income with the balance sheet sum. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, These are some steps I have now mentioned, but it is also particularly important for me to address the Committee on Tax Reform, which Mr Rossmann has also referred to. A steering group was set up at the government council in Waidhofen, consisting not only of the two State Secretarys, Mrs. Klubobfrau Glawischnig, but also of several members of the government. It now applies that the Tax Reform Commission will start its work and will deal with experts and experts. [[Call at the FPÖ:But where are the experts?]] Mr Rossmann! In particular, they must be a working body so that their proposals can also be dealt with. We need to simplify the tax system. We remember: The Income Tax Act was last codified in 1988. On the other hand, there should also be a structural change – away from the labour factor, towards more net of gross. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! However, we must work out this scope, and how we work out this scope, it will also be a core task of this government.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e12969	Now comes Mrs Mag. Muzzle on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e12990	Mr President. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to focus briefly on the profit-free amount which seems very important to me. The profit-free amount over €30 000 can no longer be applied to securities and financial products, but only to real investment. An exception will be housing bonds, and it seems very important to me that they will continue to be tax-privileged in the future. Indeed, housing costs have increased considerably in recent years and are increasingly facing many people with major problems in their economic lifestyle. In price formation, it is always very important, as the offer is. One point is that sufficient living space is offered. This decision today is a step, a mosaic in this large palette to enable it. For this purpose, the current scheme for the investment-related free amount in the Income Tax Act will be limited to the promotion of housing. In principle, we are always for the promotion of actual investments and not papers. In this case, however, this is a compromise that we have already discussed in the Committee. For us, it is an important concern that housing is stimulated. This Regulation also ensures that well-earned freelancers and service providers who have little need for real investment are not excluded from the investment-related allowance from the outset. The new housing building is deliberately being strengthened. In my opinion, however, it is also important that, when foreign housing banks are registered for Union reasons, it is also ensured that these investments and promotions must be made in Austrian housing and serve Austrian housing. This innovation strengthens mainly the non-profit housing, where, in any case, leaseable rents are legally guaranteed. This possibility of financing is mainly used in cooperative housing. In principle, I am very pleased that there are no empty promises on the subject of quiet living, but that it is really a political concern for us. The tax-amendment law is proof of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e13041	Mr Themessl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e13063	Mr President. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I quote from a press release by the chairman of the Young Economy in Tyrol, known as ÖVP, who clearly writes: “Bundespolitik must leave its anti-economic course. Economy criticizes the only marginal changes at GmbH and lack of improvements in the amount of profit. Changes are equal to the withdrawal of the GmbH.” This is written, and in addition, “changes in the amount of profit are punishing the self - employed. ” For this reason, I would like to make the following request at the outset: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr Federal Minister, I do not know where you spend your spare time or where you are in Austria. Don't you notice that normal employees or workers with one – I say – normal income no longer get over the rounds that people just don't have money to spend? The budget service has also found that your tax burden, which you want to decide today, will never and never lead you to reach the figures you have calculated, even nearer. Two years ago, we had the problem of increasing tobacco tax at the time, that we expected €200 million in additional revenue, and that has not been done. Of course, this has made you popular with the smuggling. They have made sure that hundreds of traffickers had to lock up and some more things. This is a purely tax package for the middle and the small and normal incomes and nothing else. You have to make that clear. If you are talking about reliefs for the economy, then you have now invented a new shame: They're talking about millions now, not percentages anymore. You're talking about millions now. I'll tell you one thing: If you say that the additional wage costs are reduced, I say: AUVA contribution: 0.1 percent. Granted, that's €100 million. They are expected to reduce the insolvency fee fund by 0.1 percent. That's 100 million €. That sounds so good. I remember – so much about the economic competence of the ÖVP – that your budget speaker Gabriele Tamandl, on Thursday evening in the “60 minutes of politics” program, literally said that she can imagine a reduction in the additional wage costs by 7 percent. You know, this is economic spirit travel, what you give of yourself! [[Abg. Tamandl: That's not true at all!]] 7 per cent of the cost reduction would not be a single Member of the opposition parties to demand, because he knows exactly that this is unrealistic and cannot be financed at all. Then talk about the craftsman bonus. In the case of craftsman bonus, you also talk about millions of people. You're talking about 10 million euros. Granted, the craftsman bonus would be a great story. For years, we have also called for the deductibility of services close to the budget, which would make sense. This will be done in Finland, for example, and the Luxembourg model and similar things have led to more success. You're talking about €10 million in the craft bonus as the first step for this year. Do you know what 10 million euros are? – With €10 million you don’t even finance 600 places in your so-called and highly praised ÜLAs. Such a training site costs 17 300 € per year. Not even 600 such places would you finance with € 10 million. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's what you're talking about claims and economic discharges. You know that you have resigned from economic policy is already clear to many. But the statement of Mrs. Tamandl of Thursday evening that you would reduce the additional wage costs by 7 per cent – that would probably be everybody’s wish – is unrealistic, non-reality and economic spirit travel.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e13135	The text of the amendment is sufficiently supported and properly submitted and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e13179	I am now interrupting the negotiations on points 2 and 3 of the agenda so that the urgent question requested can be dealt with in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[16:37:47]] Request for urgent procedure of Deputies Mag. Beate Meinl-Reisinger, MES, colleagues to the Federal Minister for Education, Art and Culture on planning and control failures in the current Burgtheater-Causa (730/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e13209	We arrive at urgent procedure for the written question 730/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording:
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e13897	I give the floor to Mrs Mag. Meinl-Reisinger as the first questioner to justify the request, which according to § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e13919	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! First of all, thank you very much for coming, Minister of State, for I know that you are not yet formally responsible for the arts and culture sectors. Nevertheless, it seemed necessary to me to make this urgent request. I think it is also a very important sign that we once have an art and cultural policy issue as the subject of a urgent request here in the House, and there is indeed a need for information. As chairman of the Committee on Culture, I have tried to get Parliamentary information on this matter. I would like to say that I also understand the right to interact with the National Council, the control rights and obligations of this House, that we do not only control and look at a causa, if in reality everything is already frozen, but also contribute to the investigation and raise questions of human responsibility and structure. I would also like to stress that NEOS and I are not concerned with driving another Sau through the village, as one journalist wrote recently, but there is responsibility in terms of the castle theatre and its colported deficit in terms of personnel, but we also believe questions in structural terms. But this also applies to the situation of the Bundestheater in general. We also want to look at the structures, we want to identify the weaknesses that seem to exist in these structures. We want to ask today the question to the Ministry, the Minister and the Minister, what she intends to do to remedy these structural shortcomings, which I will then explain. What is it about at the Causa Burgtheater? – The Burgtheater-Causa has become known to the public in January by reporting the magazine “NEWS”. Above all, it is – and so it is presented – the question of the responsibility of the now released commercial director of the castle theatre Silvia Stantejsky. Mrs Stantejsky was initially suspended in November and then released later. At the same time, one – I would like to stress that I very much like how it was responded – was commissioned for forensic investigation, because obviously evidence that could not be explained has appeared. But it must already be said that it is remarkable that the public – that is my opinion – has been manipulated by targeted Bits-and-Piece information policy. For weeks the public's attention is always directed only at the events, painters and probably also deaf actions of Mrs Stantejsky, while in the background there is actually a second strand of action, a second complex of questions to be discussed that revolve around the deficit. The Supervisory Board has announced in an issue that the Burgtheater is expected to have a deficit of approximately €8.3 million with an annual financial statements of €5 million. One has to look at these €8.3 million more precisely, because it contains €5.6 million, which has been achieved on the basis of the modified depreciation methodology requested by KPMG's newly commissioned auditors in 2012; I will return to these depreciation methodology later on. In addition, wrong-calculated revenue from guest games and increased personnel costs came. There will then be €1.1 million in non-comprehensible bookings, which is in principle the code word for misconceptions. In my opinion, there are two different lines of action to be discussed here. It is quite clear that the Stantejsky case will deal with the ordinary courts, but we in the House must deal here and today with the issue of this deficit. These are two separate things I would like to discuss today. I would, however, first of all like to look at human responsibility. Burgtheater Director Hartmann explained in an interview that he was responsible for the artistic shops of the Burgtheater, while Stantejsky and the Current business manager is responsible for commercial conduct, and there is a separation of duties here, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. That's right. What he did not say, however, is that a general management is specified in this Rules of Procedure in § 2, as well as in the applicable GmbH Act. In other words, the artistic director is not free of responsibility when it comes to the financial conduct of the theatre. He is even explicitly responsible for financial statements, budgeting and three-year planning. So I'm just trying to clean up here – I'm saying that so salopp – I really don't think so. One can discuss this – that is a cultural policy question – whether one wants this situation. It is clear that the artistic director – and this is also our intention – must be free in his artistic design. One may not want to have co-responsible in an overall management of budgeting in this form, but one has to do so differently. Then you have to choose an intentional agent and a managing director and perhaps a lawyer to keep the four-eye principle safe. It is interesting in this context – which could be read in the press – that it is obvious that Director Hartmann has also said on his own that he does not know that he cannot understand what Mrs Stantejsky is doing, that this commercial gesture is intruding for him. Director Springer responded. Peter Raddatz was taken to the house. He is now the business manager of the Schauspielhaus in Hamburg. He worked at the Burgtheater for a year by means of a consul contract. The question now is: What did he find? What did he look at? What was his concrete task? Did he look Ms. Stantejsky over the shoulder and see in the books, and what did he find? Then why did he leave? What business secrets, which he apparently saw, did he actually take to Hamburg? But this also shows – I would also like to stress – that Holding CEO Springer must have known that the cooperation of the two managing directors was not smooth. General management lives on the fact that the management of the board, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure, is regularly exchanged. Said Salopp, the artistic director is responsible for planning and saying the productions: That's what I want, and the business manager, the business manager, has to say: I'm getting on the brake, that's not going out! If the cooperation doesn't work, you have to act. The question is: Wouldn't Director Springer have to go any further? Wouldn't have had to think about it in this situation, Mrs Mag. Stantejsky, when the way she manages the business is so intrusive? That would have been a variant. Why didn't that happen?- Oh, my God! The second question is: Did you turn on the internal revision? It is the central task of the holding company to ensure an internal revision. Did a revision take place here? If so, what did she show? If none has happened, then this is actually a poverty certificate for this holding company and for the managing director of the holding company. I would like to say once again that this is a matter of tax resources. Three principles must be taken into account in the exercise of means of taxation: This is once again economic efficiency, on the other hand, the expediency, and that is the question of sparingness. These principles are the responsibility of the competent bodies, namely the management and, at least, the supervisory bodies. By the way, this is also defined in the federal Public Corporate Governance Code. It also states that there must be an efficient participation control. In the case of this trolling must be made the care of an ordinary and conscientious businessman. I don't know if that happened. I would like to talk later about this depreciation methodology, which, honestly, raises doubts about it. I have already said that planning and control, revision, are a main task of holding, and thus it is a question of the management of the holding company whether this task has been properly fulfilled. It is the question – and this surprises me as an inclined reader – why has never actually been mentioned, as it has been ordered about the responsibility of the holding managing director, Georg Springer. I have a theory about that. If you ask in the cultural editorials, or if you see what has been written in recent weeks, you have to say that a targeted KPMG leak policy has been pursued. There is a forensic report, an interim report, entitled “Soprano” by KPMG, which is also available with regard to the births or the paintings of Mrs Stantejsky. In the editors of Germany and abroad, just six to seven pages of this report have apparently ended up with more than 50 pages of this report. In my opinion, it is to be seen as a targeted manipulation of the public that the pages appear in the cultural editorials, which in turn direct public attention only to this one person. I don't think that only one person is responsible for the fact that this is now the deficit, and I do not believe that many journalists do not believe it, and this doesn't believe the ensemble of the Burgtheater anymore. The “bourg” has a veritable liquidity problem, which has shown itself. This forensic report speaks of a hole-to-hole system. The question is: Why hasn't this been noticed before? It can't be that this veritable liquidity problem has not been noticed, nor where the Supervisory Board has decided to reduce the loans annually by € 750 000! In addition – and this is now the second decisive strand of action – the “bourg” has a problem with indebtedness for years. In reality, this indebtedness has been pushed forward for years. What do I mean by that? – If you look at the annual accounts of the Burgtheater, you can see that in 2008 productions were still written down over one to three years. Annual financial statements 2009, i.e. in the 2008/2009 season, where it was prepared for the opening premiere marathon by Director Hartmann, as it is also said in the review report of the Burgtheater, one has suddenly begun to write off productions in part over five years. This was done in 2009, 2010, 2011 when a new audit firm came in 2012, the KPMG – every six years the auditors have to change – and it has pulled the line. They said: We can't, we're not playing with it anymore! When you talk to auditors, you hear that it is not commonplace for auditors to come and say: In the way you have written it down over years, we can no longer accept it! That is to say, this suggests that excessive use has been made of writing productions over a longer period of time. What's the problem? – In reality, one expects to be richer over years than one is, and thus conceals the actual budgetary situation. It is not to be seen that no one has noticed this, not in the Burgtheater, not in the Supervisory Board, not in the holding, not in the Supervisory Board of Holding, not at all in the BMUKK or not in the BMF, where there must also be a participation control. I have here a list of the production costs of the pieces for which Matthias Hartmann himself took over the direction. In 2008/2009, the work, 2009/2010 were the performances. It's not an unusual thing. Of course, a new director must give the house a new painting and must have his own productions, which he also takes with him from other houses. There have been twelve new self-directorial works in the Hartmann Directorate and five acquisitions from Bochum and Zurich. What is striking, however, is the sum for these productions. When you count the figures of 2008/2009, 2009/2010 for the pieces in which Hartmann himself directed, you come to € 2.6 million. The share that went to the management team, including the directorship, is €1.3 million. Now you have to know – that's what was told me – that Director Peymann paid off in his contract that he himself staged two pieces each year. The question is: How many pieces did Director Hartmann pay in his contract? And is it not a bit strange that, if the budgetary situation is already so dramatic anyway, you do not save on the productions in which you direct yourself? Are you actually waiting for a banknote? Do everyone else see how this becomes a self-service shop of the Lord Hartmann? I'm going on. The Young Castle has also been criticized. I do not want to talk here about the cultural importance of the Young Castle, which enjoys two-of-a-kind popularity, but I also have over €800 000 for the productions of the Young Castle from 2009/2010, of which € 700 000 for a piece, namely “The Wizard of Oz”. The share of this “The Wizard of Oz” went to the management team is just over €185,000. The special feature of the story is that the young castle is led by the sister of Matthias Hartmann, Annette Raffalt, and their husband, Peter Raffalt. Now it's not necessarily a scandal, but it doesn't look good either. And I must honestly say that there is a system in the law of shares and also in the regulations of different companies, which would be very appropriate in the case of federal interests, namely that business with or the recruitment of close relatives would, at least, require the approval of the Supervisory Board. I would therefore urgently call on the Ministry to introduce such a regulation in the cases of the participation of the Federal Government. I've already said that the ensemble has now asked for it. With a majority of three quarters, Ensemble Director Hartmann and Director Springer have expressed distrust. That's remarkable. It is infinitely difficult and, in fact, an intolerable situation when a theater director has the majority of the ensemble against him. There is already a question of whether he can continue as a theatre director in the medium term. It is also remarkable, however, because it can be assumed that the ensemble knows very well about the actual responsibilities within the organization in a theatre company that sometimes has a canteen character. Now these are the questions of human nature. But we are also interested in the question: Is there a structural problem? Is there anything here that could have actually been a proper controlling, a proper revision before? Was, otherwise, this deficit, this whole miscarriage predictable? – I say: Yes. There is a report from 2010 on the efficiency analysis of the Bundestheater, prepared by Ernst & Young;, the Ministry held it under lock. This includes the following statements: The presentation of the Plan Ist deviation of turnover, including base remuneration and other operating revenues, shows that the planning is regularly below the actual actual is-value by up to 10 percent. A sample-type study also showed that plan values were calculated several times below the previous year's values. There is no integrated planning consisting of a profit and loss account, balance sheet and cash flow account. The design of the stage companies is done with the help of an Excel document. Planning documents based on Excel are faulty if not centrally managed and provided with appropriate rights and controls. It was deliberately refrained from centralising the accounting function. And then we're going to go on: For a group of over 2,400 employees, a group review, consisting of a single person, is subdimensioned. – Well, this has already been done. The legal evaluation also shows that the holding company is a weakened management holding company that has no responsibility in the main areas of personnel and finance, such as the holding of the theatre in Graz. And it is an essential task to ensure a proper, efficient planning and reporting system. – This has completely failed here. My conclusion: There are two aspects here: the Stantejsky case, which does not have to deal with us in this form. This is probably going to be a case for the ordinary courts. But there is also the debt of the Burgtheater. And that's where the question arises: What will the Ministry do in terms of personnel? What's going to be You are dealing with these obvious structural shortcomings in controlling and reviewing a holding company that has four daughters to control? [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] I ask quite openly: How do you react? Will you act quickly to protect the reputation of the Austrian National Theatre and determine those responsible? Becoming Are you developing newer and better basics of control and revision and looking at the structural shortcomings of this holding construction? – I refer to the contrast between federal theatres and federal museums that come out without holding hold. – Or do you also push everything, as is currently read in the media, into the shoes of a obviously overshadowed business manager, everything will roll on her and use a systematic concealment as well? Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e14099	In response to the question, as was agreed with the political groups, the Federal Minister for Education, Art and Culture, as I have said, has made a statement and then the Minister of State at the Federal Chancellor's Office. Mrs Bundesminister, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e14123	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! ==References====External links== ==References====External links== At the end of January 2014, the Federal Ministry Act was passed here in the House, and with 1. It will enter into force on 1 March. That is, I would like to point out, that I am still formally responsible for art and culture for a few days. But I would like to thank my colleague, Mr Josef Ostermayer, who is now already very interested in the whole field of art and culture, and who also attends many events and conducts discussions. In particular, he has already worked very intensively on the Causa Burgtheater and will continue to deal with it in the future. Now on the question of the situation of the Burgtheater: Ladies and gentlemen! Even before the German Federal Government's registration, serious shortcomings in the bookkeeping of the Burgtheater were identified in November 2013 in the context of an audit of auditors. The business manager responsible for the period of delivery examination, who has been in charge since 1. In September 2013, when the deputy artistic director was employed in the Burgtheater, the management of the Burgtheater immediately suspended and released from the service. The Supervisory Board of the Burgtheater was informed of this, and at an extraordinary meeting on 25 February. This information also went on November. I would now like to thank you, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, as the President has already announced, for your agreement that now Federal Minister Josef Ostermayer will be able to answer the 42, 72 questions – apologies, I have had too little in mind about 30 questions, there are 72 questions – available. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e14163	I now give the floor to Mr. Federal Minister Dr. Ostermayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e14184	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Meinl-Reisinger, we held a personal discussion at the end of January in my office, which was particularly concerned with the Burgtheater and the issue of the Committee's date. I asked you at the time or argued that the meeting of the Committee on Culture should not take place until March, when this is possible, because I will only be able to do so from 1 January. In March, with the entry into force of the Federal Ministry Act, it would also be useful to wait for the KPMG report, which you mentioned several times. This report is not yet available, but will be available at the next Supervisory Board date. In this respect, it would have been more effective to wait until March with the urgent request, if you actually expect answers. But I can tell you that in the meantime, the Federal Minister has already mentioned it, I have had many conversations in connection with the Burgtheater, on the one hand with the artistic director, with the commercial director of the Burgtheater, i.e. with the new commercial director of the Burgtheater, with Supervisory Board members of the Burgtheater and and also with the Director and his deputy and the Supervisory Board President of the Bundestheater-Holding. And last Tuesday, after the ensemble of the Burgtheater had written me a letter, I invited representatives of the ensemble to me, eleven actors came, and we discussed the current situation, in one, as I believe, understanding and constructive conversation, as confirmed by the speaker of the Burgtheater ensemble. And last Friday I had a conversation with the President of the Court of Auditors Dr. Moser, in which I told him that I would request an examination of the Burgtheater as soon as I was formally responsible. Before answering the individual questions, I would like to say a few words: They said it was about two processes that need to be distinguished. I would say that we are dealing with three issues in relation to the castle. theatre. The first is the question of the transactions around the former business manager. The second is the current financial situation of the Burgtheater. And thirdly, it is about the financial future of the Burgtheater. In mid-December, the management of the Burgtheater commissioned the auditor, i.e. KPMG, with a forensic investigation of various booking operations that have occurred and triggered scepticism, and also to investigate tax issues relating to booking transactions. An interim report of this investigation was sent to the Board of Directors of the Burgtheater on 10 October. February of this year presented. The Supervisory Board then commissioned the management of the Burgtheater to give the former business manager an opportunity to comment, even in the expectation that perhaps some things can still be clarified, and then to take all necessary or meaningful legal steps. In the same way, intra-group measures have already been taken to prevent similar incidents in the future. A comprehensive instruction from the Bundestheater-Holding was given to all subsidiaries that the applicable four-eye principle should be respected without exception, that the internal control system should be subject to a comprehensive evaluation and that the internal revision should be entrusted with the ongoing review and compliance with this instructions. Furthermore, a due diligence test was carried out on behalf of the Bundestheater-Holding, according to which, after examination of all relevant Supervisory Board protocols, audit reports and conduct audits in the period 2009 to 2013, there had been no grounds for the Supervisory Board to question a functioning internal control, a functioning internal control system, and there had been no evidence for the Supervisory Board until the autumn 2013 meeting that the four-eye principle would not have been implemented or that the annual accounts had presented a distorted picture of the asset, income and financial situation of the Burgtheater. The Supervisory Board was held at the meeting of 10. It also informs on the expected loss of the balance sheet of € 8.3 million for the 2012/13 financial year and, in addition, tax payments of up to €5 million are in the room because certain declarations have not been required. The Supervisory Board has therefore called on the Management Board to present a timetable and concrete measures for reducing this loss of balance sheet, and also expects the final report of the forensic investigation carried out, as I mentioned earlier. This final report will be presented to the Supervisory Board at the next meeting, which will be held this week. Now another general comment: According to Article 52 of the B-VG, only those tasks relating to the function of the federal government as the owner of the Bundestheater-Holding are covered by the law. § 13 of the Federal Theatre Organisation Act provides that the members appointed by the Ministries of the Supervisory Boards of the Bundestheater Societies are obliged to provide information to the respective Federal Minister or to the Ministry. This means that there is a right of interaction in those matters in which a decision is taken by the respective Supervisory Board. Now on the questions and the answers that have necessarily been kept close – our speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes; for 72 questions, this means an average of 16 seconds for an answer, so I also have to sum up some questions –: Questions 1 to 5: I refer to my introductory words. The final report of KPMG's forensic investigation will be submitted to the Supervisory Board, as I said, at the next Supervisory Board meeting. Questions 6, 8, 9 and 11: The results of the forensic investigation should also be expected for the assessment. Question 7: The criteria for ordering a management body are based on the applicable legal situation, in particular the provisions of the Corporate Code, the GmbH Act and the Bundestheater Organisation Act. Question 10: This is not subject to the issues of execution by the BMUKK or my future department. Question 12: No, no, no, On the question 13: I refer to the answer to question 6. Questions 14, 15, 18 and 19: I must also refer to my introductory words, in particular to the presence of the forensic investigation or its outcome. On the question 16: In this regard, I quote a broadcast of the Burgtheater ensemble speaker Roland Koch from 19th century. February, that is, the day after our meeting, in which he finds that the staff of the Burgtheater are not about personnel issues, especially in connection with the Directorate. On the question 17: According to information from the institutions of the Burgtheater and the holding company, there was no use of the dirimation law. Question 20: The Burgtheater management works with the Supervisory Board and also the holding company to develop appropriate measures. That is to be expected, and then a corresponding decision must be made. On question 21: The audit shall be carried out on the basis of the applicable legal situation, the applicable provisions for auditors. Participation control shall be carried out on the basis of the reports submitted. On the question 22: This is also not subject to the issues of execution by the BMUKK or my future department. On questions 23-25: The measures to be taken will be developed by the management of the Burgtheater in coordination with the Supervisory Board of the Burgtheater and the Holding Institutions. On questions 26 to 32: This is also not subject to the issues of execution by the BMUKK or my future department. On question 33: The definition of the Public Corporate Governance Code concerning senior employees has already been incorporated into the rules of procedure of the Bundestheatergesellschaft. On questions 34 and 35: According to the Bundestheater-Holding, the self-directing work of Director Hartmann will be paid in addition according to the contract, which was extended in 2006. According to the holding, the former director Claus Peymann included two productions. On questions 36 and 37: I refer to the Court of Auditors' income report in this regard. On questions 38 to 40: This is also not subject to the issues of execution by the BMUKK or my future department. On questions 41 and 42: The audits shall be carried out in accordance with the legal provisions and the existing standards and fees for auditors. On questions 43 and 44: This is also not subject to the issues of execution by the BMUKK or my future department. On questions 45 to 47: I also refer to my introductory words, in particular the final report of the KPMG's forensic examination which is not yet available. Question 48: The reports have been submitted accordingly, and the final report, as has already been said, needs to be evaluated. On questions 49 and 50: According to current state: none. I would also like to refer to the final report which is not yet in place. I expressly reserve further examinations. On questions 51, 52 and 54: The enforcement rights are sufficiently determined in accordance with the GmbH Act and the Bundestheaterorganisationsgesetz. The regulations of the Public Corporate Governance Code have also been implemented in the rules of the Bundestheatergesellschaft. On question 53: I would like to refer once again to my introductory words and to the final report which is not yet in place. On questions 55 and 56: As I have been told, the recommendations of the efficiency analyses will be implemented continuously. I should also like to refer to the detailed treatment by the Committee on Culture during the last legislative period. In question 57: As mentioned several times, the regulations of the Public Corporate Governance Code have already been implemented in the regular works of the Bundestheatergesellschaft. On question 58: None. On questions 59 and 60: I would like to point out again that the final report is not yet available. On questions 61 and 62: The basic fee for the Bundestheater is governed by the applicable provisions of the Bundesfinanzgesetz in conjunction with the Bundestheater Organisational Act, in which the responsible institutions form conduct and liquidity. On questions 63 and 64: This is also not subject, as has already been said several times, to the issues of the execution by the BMUKK or my future department. On question 65: No, no, no, On question 66: The legal design of the distributions was carried out in order to ensure appropriate management, in 1999 and then a second time. It should be noted that the Federal Museums and the Austrian National Library have been transferred to the administration of collective property of the Federal Government, in contrast to the buildings of the Bundestheater, and therefore they have chosen a different way of using an institution as a legal basis. Questions 67 to 69: In this regard, I refer to the applicable provisions of the Bundestheaterorganisationsgesetz, the Bundesmuseengesetz and the Austrian Federal Constitution. On question 70: No, no, no, On questions 71 and 72: I would like to refer once again to my introductory words and to the forensic report which has not yet been submitted, without which a serious assessment of the situation is not finally possible. Finally, however, I should like to stress once again that, as soon as I am formally responsible, I will request the Court of Auditors to examine the conduct of the Burgtheater, and we hope that we will receive further information. I would ask for an understanding of the fact that due to the situation, not yet available report by the Forensics, the ongoing design of the budget and the Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Budgetary Control and the Committee on Budgetary Control, the Committee on Budgetary Control, the Committee on Budgetary Control and the Committee on Budgetary Control, the Committee on Budgetary Control and the Committee on Budgetary Control, the Committee on Budgetary Control and the Committee on Budgetary In the case of interpolation rights, further or wider responses were not possible, even as a result of the temporary situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e14607	Before we go into the debate, I should like to refer to the debate on the morning and tell you the following: For the statement “most of the crime in the circle of the Freedom Party” by Mr Pilz, I give this a call for order. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] – applause for this is not necessary at all! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] Each club has a total speaking time of 25 minutes. Mr Jarolim, you are on my list. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Meinl-Risinger. I'll put the clock at the desired 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e14674	Thank you, Mr Federal Minister, for the very poor answer to my – admittedly – many, namely, 72 questions. First of all, I would like to say something about the meeting of the Committee on Culture: Yeah, that's right, we talked about it. I have already expressed the opinion – and I represent it today – that it cannot fall into the sphere of Parliament, how long you are conducting government negotiations and who is ad personam responsible. It cannot, however, be said that we in Parliament – which we believe you would be negotiating for a year now – cannot work properly for a year. [[Congratulation with NEOS and Greens.]] Well, I have noted that we now have an appointment in mid-March, I am glad, but I have to say that I have seen the need for this urgent request. We NEOS don't have a constant chance to make a urgent request. I don't think I came back in March, but probably only in June. And if we constantly read in newspaper articles that this interim report of the forensic investigation – and this one is on the table – is actually lying everywhere and speculating wildly, it is actually an intolerable situation if Parliament does not do anything about it here. That is why I have been forced to ask this question today, and it has been answered very poorly. I would particularly like to draw up two points here. I asked you if there had to be a reference to the threat of a deficit arising from the periodic reports, and later I asked you: “Since when has the BMUKK been aware that in the Burgtheater 2012/2013, including through the depreciation practices as amended from the financial year 2011/2012, would an additional balance sheet loss be expected in millions?” They have not answered both questions with the reference to the yet completed forensic investigation. I would like to read to you, perhaps you do not know him, the annual financial report of the Burgtheater, which is also available in the company's book as a document, namely what is on page 13 under the heading “Location Report 2011/2012”: Expected development of the company Maintaining the modified depreciation methodology would also lead to a negative outcome in the 2012/2013 financial year. Only through not planned but already foreseeable – interesting! – More revenue, further savings on the expenditure side and a shareholder grant from holding as owner can be achieved the extremely ambitious goal of offsetting the otherwise threatening deficit. - Quote. You say here today that you have to wait for the outcome of the forensic investigation to give an answer. You would have known – everyone should have known – if you had read only once in this financial year's financial statements that a deficit is going to threaten again, because problems are simply pushed forward. In this annual accounts, it is said that the deficit can only be averted by savings. I asked what savings the BMUKK has planned. Didn't you even talk about it? Is it really just that you continue to quit, cancel other ensemble members, continue to be reduced? Can't you say at some point, it's just too expensive to produce? I really think it is immense that you should refer to the forensic report on every question, especially since you should have only looked into the annual accounts of the previous year.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e14747	Mrs Hakel has now been spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e14768	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Let's calm down a little bit, let's get back to the material level and look at the facts, because such a staging as NEOS are trying now, the Burgtheater has not deserved, the staff have not earned themselves and the ensemble has not deserved! [[Abg. May. Schieder: The best stage of the German-speaking space!]] Let's get to the facts! ==References== In September 2008, Ms. Silvia Stantejsky became commercial director of the Burgtheater. In February 2013, she announced that she would no longer be available as a commercial director from September onwards. In December 2013, she was initially suspended by Georg Springer and later released by Matthias Hartmann. They have been blamed for their inconsistencies and inconsistencies in the business. ==References== In January 2014, Director Hartmann informed the staff of Ms. Stantejsky's temporary release. ==References== Jann sued Ms. Stantejsky at the Labour Court for her dismissal. In the middle of January, the first interim report, which has burdened Mrs Stantejsky, has blamed her for disregarding the four-eye principle, further that she has built up a penultimate parallel system and a very intelligent shadow organization, and she has also been blamed for doing so. These are vehement accusations that stand in the room. ==References== The interim report is available to the Supervisory Board on February 18, 2014. It was about fake evidence and the reflection of false facts. There had been no comprehensible deposits and payouts, and so on and so on. But we know all of this so far only from the media coverage. Therefore, and this is now different from the NEOS, we have said that we do not want the Committee meeting until March, because fact is still: At the end of February, i.e. at the end of this week, the auditor's final report will be available, and this final report will allow serious work to be done as it belongs to a Parliament, for example: What happened? Have everyone behaved properly? Are – if so, what – consequences to draw? Of course, we are concerned with transparency, we are talking about information, we are, if necessary, also about the consequences that must be placed. However, this – and I would like to stress here again – is based on serious figures, data and facts and not on media reports and speculation. [[Abg. May. Meinl-Reisinger: A financial statements is serious!]] More is now, however, not available, just what is in the newspapers. That's all we know about what Mrs Stantejsky really did. We do not know that, therefore this is a pre-conception. Especially in a medial and politically heated situation, as we now have it, a minister like Josef Ostermayer, who has already accepted the situation, must certainly also be required, even though he has officially – with that we have repeatedly explained why we do not want the committee meeting until March – only from 1st. It is the responsibility of the European Parliament and of the Council. He has started talks, and that is quite legitimate. He spoke to those concerned, he spoke to the ensemble, but he had not yet made a judgment and had not yet taken any steps because the final report was still missing. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] I can only agree to the ensemble if it says it has to be done step by step. The ensemble also speaks of it, even the ensemble does not want measures to be taken, although one does not yet know exactly what is actually a fact. Therefore, you have to proceed with a cool head and a hot heart – as the ensemble called it. I trust our minister. I am convinced that it will draw the right conclusions as soon as the final report is available.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e14824	Mrs Fekter. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e14846	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! Irritation and uncertainty and an enormous loss of trust between ensemble and direction, critical questions to Dr. Springer from the Bundestheater-Holding and to Director Hartmann of the Burgtheater in his role as managing director of the Burgtheater GesmbH – that there is a need for information is undisputed. However, it is also undisputed that the house itself has discovered the painters and acted that the Minister strives to restore the trust between ensemble and direction, although the way is still far. The fact that external auditors are concerned about the situation is essential in this case. If the facts are on the table, the responsibility can be attributed. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! This is not a loss as it often occurs in companies, but rather an Austrian institution. I take away the homepage of how the Burgtheater sees itself – I quote: “As an Austrian national theatre, the Burgtheater is the country’s most important stage and Europe’s largest speech theatre that combines tradition, diversity and progress.” The success, ladies and gentlemen, with the high artistic claim is undisputed, is also mentioned here. This is demonstrated by the public's sandrang. About 877 performances in a season, 483 800 spectators. This is something that has grown to the heart of our guests from abroad and also the Austrian population. That is why we need to proceed here quickly, but cautiously and prudently. The debate, the crisis management, is not intended to interfere with the running of the game. If I say this this, I am of course aware that, in view of the irritations and uncertainties in the ensemble, this is almost an impossible undertaking. If it is known that millions are missing if savings measures have already been started, then it is only natural – that I can well imagine – that ensemble members have fears of existence that they are not only afraid of losing the job, but also afraid of having less or no more engagement. This is why it is a communication which the Minister has already initiated, but also a complete investigation of the operations. The numbering work will be presented this week, and then we will know how creative this accounting was, in fact, – the presumption of innocence – which painterries actually existed. [[Abg. Dr. Zinggl: You know this from your time as Minister of Finance!]] – Mr Zinggl, the problem is that if something is hidden, hidden or even faked in the documents, it is not so easy to conclude from the conclusions! The KPMG did not object to the conclusion of 2011. From this, however, through control and internal revision, one has become aware of irregularities. They have not been noticed from the outside, which has probably recognized the system for themselves, although, of course, I do not dispute that there are structural further possibilities for improvement, especially in planning, especially with regard to cooperation holding and playgrounds. We can do all of this in the Committee on 13 November. It is the responsibility of the European Parliament and of the Council to give its opinion on the All this makes sense when the facts are on the table. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The “bourg” was “overheated”, that’s right. There have been too many premieres and events. If the director of a GesmbH, who is at the same time managing director, devotes his entire time to his own productions for which he receives an extra-honorary, there may be a wrong situation, then it may be that he could no longer devote himself to the management. Such a similar thing we have had in health care at the primary and their private ordinations until we have clearly regulated the division, how much a primary in the hospital and how much he works in his private ordination. I believe that a similar constellation in compliance is necessary in this case too. The Burgtheater managing director – he is the managing director of a GesmbH – must also be able to devote himself to this task. If he wants to be artistically active, this can only be within a framework that the managing director's activity does not suffer. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The ensemble has this overheating excellent, I say, mastered, has performed excellent performances on stage, and the audience has appreciated the performances. This is mentioned here once. The Burgtheater has the highest level, and we must not endanger that. That is why we, ladies and gentlemen, must act wisely, clarify the painters' paintings, help build confidence in the institution, but also in the management, and help the “bourg” as a whole to lead it at artistic level as the performance theatre so that we do not experience any bad surprises at the cost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e14887	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e14909	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! What about the seriality now? Of course, we agreed that Mr Ostermayer's opinion should be delivered today, although he was only starting from 1. March will be Minister, but what has he – seriously, we want the facts on the table – had to say before, even though he is not a minister at all? So this seriosity you put in the room is a little bit double-edged. Is it really just the KPMG report you think everything is in there? I'll tell you one thing: Austrian social law was not written by Goethe, Schiller, Shakespeare, Nestroy or Raimund, nor by Bernhard or Elfriede Jelinek, but rather by a parliament, and it is not about the artistic significance of the Austrian castle theatre, but about how tax money was and is handled in these cultural institutions. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There's one thing that's out there again: Regardless of the fact that Mr Ostermayer said that without the final report he could not mention any figures, he also said on many questions that it was not within the competence of the Federal Ministry at all. In other words, this is an example of a breakdown, a holding solution, where one works with subsidiaries and where the tax money flows well, but if the legislator wants to have information as a government control body, it says: It's none of your business. No, so it can't be, otherwise I would recommend SPÖ and ÖVP to set up an intransparency holding for all of Austria at all, and to include everything there is at all, then we don't have to deal with the right of interconnection at all here. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] So get so easy. You can't do it. [[Congratulations with FPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] Now on the question of artistic activity: I always hear of the speciality of the cultural creators, what they have in this Republic for a strong conscience. Art and culture must also provoke, I hear, and also, what high importance artists have. Now artists say, says the artistic ensemble, we no longer trust the director and the holding chief. The next day after a conversation with the Minister, they say, but they did not mean that personally. – What is that at once? There's a vote that the artists don't believe in 75 percent of their leader, who is even artistic, but the next day they don't mean that personally?- Oh, my God! It's called Director Hart-man, but it's not supposed to be personal?- Oh, my God! No, there's something lazy in the state of Burgtheater! There are, of course, a lot of things now, but I do not need a KPMG report, for example: “The SPÖ’s motto for staffing in the cultural sector is overcoloring.” “The party book is again the basis of the SP culture policy.” “On the contrary, Freunderlwirtschaft counts more than competence and expertise.” The Ministry has “a disrupted relationship to transparency”. Who said that? – The then ÖVP cultural speaker Morak in 2008. You really can't add anything to that in terms of content. [[Federal Minister Dr. Ostermayer: And who chose Hartmann when we're already there?]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: A completely wrong quote!]] – Mr Jarolim then has the possibility of an actual correction, and I will, in turn, make an actual correction to the actual correction made by him in the not even correctly achieved in the approach – because he is not able to do so because he cannot say the untruth when correcting it – and I would also like to show him the appropriate quote, so that he does not have to try unnecessarily for the actual correction. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Since when do you quote Morak?]] – If you ask me, since when I quote Morak, I would say, for example, since just now. Interesting, isn't it? I can already choose when to quote where, and thank God no longer depends on the graces of a former clubman of SPÖ. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let us assume that what is actually going on there is monitoring! Burgtheater and Holding even have supervisory bodies, there are supervisory boards. I am excited to see your party colleague, Mrs. Dr. Heide Schmidt, who is sitting on the board of directors of the Burgtheater, will hopefully have looted NEOS more from the sewing box, about what really happened there. That's information that we don't have, but I see at this whole crew one: What is the purpose of a holding solution if it does not perceive the original property, namely control? What's this holding company doing? – Holding takes over the entire state support as an account and then distributes it in accordance with decisions already given. It's nothing but a parent account. She receives reports and talks about strategic things or something. I can tell you what you would say in the country: The holding is – and this is now happening – to scratching and otherwise nothing and only costs money! It costs a lot of money through this intermediate construction. It might be to think, as some believe, of finding such a great solution for the federal museums, they should also be integrated into a holding. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Who's in the holding on the Supervisory Board? – The section heads of the Ministry of Finance, Mr Steger as section head. Why did he not cheer up and scream at these depreciation models? It means that all of this has been checked by the holding company. The holding company knew all that happened. The Head of Section of the Ministry of Finance does not even say in between: I don't like the way you evaluate this! The head of the section of the Federal Chancellery is inside. A section head from the Ministry of Art is sitting in there as sole owner. Well, can he not do it himself that he simply signs the payment certificate to the individual institutions of the Bundestheater-Holding? It must be possible. It is about €2 million for all employees, from Mr Springer to the cleaning woman, and that in the year. We could save this by just putting away the holding. And what further advantage do we have? – The Minister would have to provide information about this and could not hide behind any social organisations. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, once again on the question of seriality: I think that's really embarrassing. In this Austrian institution of cultural life has been a bit lazy since November. Note: In part, the temporary release was pre-condemned – what does pre-condemned? –, she has once been released without notice, so this has just gone off her hand once, because something must have happened. She says that she has done one thing about the summer months, about the holiday time with artist salaries from her private estate in presentation. Excuse me, what is this state institution where such a thing can happen – because it has not achieved Mr Hartmann for the four-eye principle?- Oh, my God! I don't know if it's true or not, whether it's a protection claim by Mrs Stantejsky or not, I don't know. But only when such things as this are spread over the aether, through our media, then in Parliament too the alarm bells have to shrivel instead of saying: We'll wait. We'll wait until we finish the coalition. We'll wait until we finish a Federal Ministry Act. We wait until the report to the Supervisory Board is finished, and the Supervisory Board will report to the Ministry, then we will continue to look. Ladies and gentlemen! What do you assume, then, that a self-confident Parliament will do if such abuses occur? I can only tell you that thank God there is also this urgent question, so that this is discussed very well and we also see, already today, what answers are given, which are not only related to the fact that a report is not given, which is already in newspaper editorials in sections. That's great, so we'd rather read the paper and we'd better wait for it. The newspapers should have it better than the representatives of the Republic of Austria. But the essential thing is – and therefore, fingers away from all future things and also from reconstruction and reconstruction in the holding solution! –: If all these intrusive things – I am also thinking of the ÖIAG when it came to Telekom and the like – only result in the fact that the Minister or the Minister can say: I cannot answer that, because this is not in the spirit of the Ministry of Administration!, then it is true not only in the State of Denmark or in the Burgtheater, but in general in this Republic.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e15010	Mr Dr. Zinggl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e15031	Madam President. Minister of Finance! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, Mrs. Hakel, let's take a look at this whole thing without emotions. Suddenly, the richest speech theatre in the world is practically poor from one day to another. €46.7 million is not enough, and 13.3 million mies are being built. Of course, that's nothing compared to all these hypo stories, we know that in culture, but similar phenomena of innocence and fogging are already diving. on, and they're very interesting. So no one knew anything exactly before, no one really knows to this day. There is no need for information on where to look, and Parliament is not getting any answers to the questions. Minister! They're referring to the forensic investigation. You know, that's not it, it's not alone, and you know much more than you tell us now. This is not transparent, as you have now announced. This is also not transparency towards Parliament, if you speculate in the paper on closures of the casino or the sale of the Hanuschhof apartments, but in Parliament you say that I have to wait first. On the one hand, you're already playing with thoughts about how it goes on, they have to rely on something. On the other hand, you say I don't know anything and I can't provide information yet. There's no one's responsibility so far, so no one's been thinking that there might be anyone responsible. However, there is now a bought-in and expensive crisis management in the Burgtheater, because the managing director, who is actually responsible for crises and their handling, obviously does not deal with this. And one thing is interesting, namely, all these control mechanisms. That's what's coming up with me every time. This is not a body, but we have the bookkeeping in connection with the Burgtheater, which is about ten people. Then we have the controlling. Then we have the commercial leader. Then we have the auditors. Then we have the Supervisory Board of the Burgtheater. Then we have the Supervisory Board of the Bundestheater-Holding. Then we checked the Ministry of Art, also the Ministry of Art. And we've got the Ministry of Finance that's checking. Mrs Fekter, there must be something that must have been noticed at some point in time. A specialist from abroad, Mr Raddatz, will be flown in for a year. He has also checked, and we still do not know what he has actually found or whether he has found nothing. An efficiency analysis will then be ordered by €550 000, which will not find anything, and reports, liquidity reports, quarterly reports, and no one will know anything. So I can't really understand that. I think it was like this: A part really didn't get anything, didn't know, didn't look at it. That is always the case with these bodies. Another part looked, learned something and was not allowed to know anything. These are, above all, the employees. And a third part knew it and looked away as far as possible in the hope that sometime the great subsidization rain will come back and wipe out all the traces that might have revealed anything there. If the budget had been covered, at least for a time it would have been quiet. But now it was not so, there has not been a rain of subsidies, and it may have been very good. And now crisis management occurs and says, well, moment, there we need a culprit and we look at it, there are certainly inconsistencies, and of course there are, and there is now someone. And that's it. I can't do that. I can tell you that. Everyone knows that in the meantime. Yes, there may have been inconsistencies. The forensic report will also promote this until it turns out, I am quite sure, but that does not explain the 13.5 million deficit. And the other attempt at explanation is also condemned, in my opinion, to failure, namely the idea of the state that the federal government had too little subsidized, so the Burgtheater would have gotten too little money and would therefore have come into this unpleasant situation. Yeah, that's right. It is certain that the budget of the Burgtheater has not been adjusted to inflation, no question at all, and that is a great difficulty, but ladies and gentlemen, we have this difficulty in virtually all cultural institutions. I have been pointing out since I was in Parliament that this is an insanity and that we have too little cultural budget. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] These very small initiatives – including the medium-sized, actually all except the large tankers Bundesmuseen, Salzburg Festival and so on – must look where they stay. And they can't make 50 000 € minus, because then they go into bankruptcy. But with the federal owners is always relocated, obviously also in the consciousness of those who act there. They say that the state has to settle the deficit, it has nothing else to do with it. – Too big to fail like the banks in the United States. And now let's think about it: How was this really the case with the disseminations at the time? The reason why it was distributed and the whole thing was built into a federal holding was also the fact that the Bundestheater is not on the roof of the Federal Minister every year and should still demand more money, because the prices are increased and because they need more every year. As both the federal government and the theatre directors have said, let them manage themselves, then they can attract sponsors on land, then they can regulate prices, then they can navigate with commercial considerations, without every year demanding subsidies to increase subsidies. That was the reason. But now this is going in the other direction. Now this longing for increase nevertheless comes every year, the other theatres, other stages, other cultural institutions that work as imaginative as they do art that has the same visions. The household is already very important to me as a fishing point for this whole story, because the current Burgtheater director Matthias Hartmann also said at his office, he comes out with the budget he has. We'll see he doesn't deal with it. And I am now bringing you an example of why this is the case, and that is just one of many examples known to us. Since director Katie Mitchell did not want to come to Vienna about a week or ten days ago to make the samples, for whatever reason, the production team with the actors, actresses and so on went all the way to London to make the samples, rented rooms there and transferred the samples at the expense of the Burgtheater. And now you could say, aha, that's where the deficit comes from, that was probably two years ago. No, that was a short time ago, in the middle of the crisis. In the middle of this crisis, the Burgtheater rides along – how do you say that? – Tross and rider and so on. This is already negligent and suggests that there is always the idea that the state will jump in, what else should it do. And the Burgtheater director has just told us quite clearly what he thinks about it. He said I'm not here to be a savings commissioner for the state. Ladies and gentlemen, he made a mistake, a serious mistake. He's responsible for saving, he's got that in his contract. And that's what the Bundestheater Organisation Act says in § 7. That means he doesn't know his own contract, he doesn't know he has to save. And now that he's managed to overheat the castle, he's cynically attesting: The castle is a sick patient who needs to be healed – that is, from him. The causer of the disease is, as it were, found as a doctor dressed in the hospital bed again and tries to perform any operations. Mr Minister, you are not responsible for the past, you are certainly not, but for the future you are already. And in my opinion, the reputation of the theatre must now be restored urgently. Hartmann won't be able to do that. He hasn't been able to do it yet, he won't be able to do it in the future. And if three-quarters of the staff were to express his distrust in the artistic field, and in the business area he is not really adequate anyway, then I would have tried in his place to search for space as quickly as possible. If three-quarters of my staff tell me I'm not acceptable anymore, I would have done that. He didn't do that. There's nothing too embarrassing about some people. I would have liked to know, Minister, what it is about. Their trust is based on him, because there is actually no reason at all for that. And I hope that you will deal with this matter so that we are all satisfied, not with silence, with postponement and with appeals to any reports that will not help us at the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e15144	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e15165	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like High house! First of all, on behalf of the medical profession, I should like to repeat the accusation and allegation made by Mrs Fekter that primary doctors would enrich private patients. What this accusation, which is not true, has to do with the Burgtheater, I wonder. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] And the second point I would like to make is: Private patients clearly subsidize the public system. Every doctor, every hospital, every hospital carrier, all the federal states, the municipality of Vienna can be grateful that there are private patients. For this reason, Mrs. Stadtratin Wehsely, head of the largest Austrian hospital association, has recently said in an interview to read in the “Standard”: I want more private patients. – So much for this accusation. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and the FPÖ representatives.]] But back to the castle: For me, Burgtheater and Hypo Alpe-Adria are synonyms, not as far as the financial scope is concerned, but as regards the attitude and symptomism of the unculture that prevails in this country. We like to call ourselves a high culture country. But when we look at these complexes, Burgtheater, Hypo Alpe-Adria and other scandals that have hit us over the past years and decades and are partly not corrected to this day, then, I have to say, we have a cross here and – perhaps it is not quite politically correct today to say that – barbaransque attitude in politics. Ladies and gentlemen, these are symptoms of filtation, party book economy, ingenuity, and ultimately of the winking blow against each other and an axe in the drinking of Heurigen – and saying: We won't need a judge! All of this is in this Burgtheater story and in the Hypo-Alpe-Adria story – I don't even get it out, so ugly is the word – anyway. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] And all of this causes the starkness of the citizen. The citizen is the payer; he ultimately has to settle all these abuses. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] We always say the state has to pay for it. Ladies and gentlemen, everyone sitting here, and everyone sitting here knows: The state, we are all, these are the citizens. And all of us sitting here are paid by these citizens. And here, I think, we have a very great responsibility, which is partly not perceived by politics. And that's exactly what makes the distrust of the payers, of the citizens. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] And that is where I would like to call Parliament again. Parliament must be much stronger, more neat and more steadfast in its demands and in its control bodies, otherwise we have exactly these theatre stories in the truest sense of the word again and again and again – and at some point nobody goes to vote. We do not want that in a democracy. Our duty and our mission are therefore: We have to devote ourselves to these things. And I think this also has to do with decent politics, with decent members of the government et cetera. If you look at the salaries that exist in cultural management, especially when you look at how they are raised, you find less propensity. In 2011, 2012 we had a 10-percent increase in management salaries in the theatre environment and theatre complex, but only a 3.5-percent increase in employees' salaries. I can already read that on my own, because of reason something is not in this whole system. That's off-line. My previous speaker has already mentioned this: If I am the head of a house of three quarters of the workforce, I am distrusted, then I take my hat thank you – and I am away very quickly. There I miss every sort of propriety; it seems there is no longer in our country. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] What I take from it and what we, I think, can all take away from this entire Burgtheater complex, from the Hypo-Alpe-Adria complex, specifically now referred to the Burgtheater, is: We need new structures, we need more separation from management, so to speak, from executive and legislative. Management cannot be identical to artistic management in the Burgtheater. This always leads to a breakdown and ultimately to a collapse of the whole. I can't! You need a skilled managing director who takes care of the business economy, and you need an artistic director who takes care of the pieces et cetera. Otherwise, this will never work properly. I therefore believe that we are now back in 1998, when the first Federal Theatre Organisation Act was passed, a law that was made at that time for similar reasons, to the extent that it is still comprehensible. We are now in this state of 1998: There is little transparency, it has just been watched for years – and we do not know exactly what to do. There are some people who may be guilty of having broken something; we don't know exactly. In any case, we'll need a long, long, long time to get that up again. That's why I'm asking: We need to do something now so that this can no longer happen in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e15268	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Alm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e15292	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! Not only is it about the current causa, I do not want to comment on the reports, which are not yet available, but they are also about the role of a state company. We do not need a final report in order to be able to judge certain things here. In the previous year, the annual loss was still offset by a capital reduction of €3.6 million. If you remember the discussions about the GmbH light, then one of the two criticism points besides the tax decline by the minimum-coastal was the execution of these capital reductions. The reduction in the capital of the Burgtheater amounting to €3.6 million corresponds to approximately 300 capital reductions from a half-rooted GmbH to the level of the GmbH light. For comparison: In the second half of 2013, there were approximately 650 capital reductions. That is, the capital reduction of a castle theatre corresponds to its volume after almost half of all the capital reductions that have been carried out since the introduction of the GmbH light. Where is the protection of creditors, which is so vehemently demanded by the new founders? [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] The Burgtheater costs taxpayers around €45 million a year and now wants to cover this amount by about 25 percent. We know that without the final report. This is an additional minus of probably € 13 million. This is far more than the proceeds from the business of the Burgtheater, which is about €10 million. And every entrepreneur, every entrepreneur knows he or she can't spend more time than he or she takes. Entrepreneurs dominate the basic methods. In the management of the Burgtheater, however, there are no entrepreneurs. This is a GmbH. As Mrs Fekter has already asked me, this is a matter of responsibility in this area. It requires entrepreneurship, no more and no less. This has nothing to do with the artistic output of the Burgtheater. The state-owned company simply does it to the government, which does not give a good example with its debt-making policy. Keynesianism is not a suitable model for the business economy. But perhaps the Burgtheater only wants to act in a situational sense and now also strives for a structural zero deficit over the next cultural cycle. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] That's not a solution. The annual subsidies for the Burgtheater must be sufficient. It's about the culture of responsibility. It is not a question of shortening subsidies, but a few facts from the real economy we must face up to. In view of these sums that stand in space, some of the things we often argue about for years seem quite ridiculous. For years now, we have been drawing attention to how we should continue to deal with the issue of private copy and rights in the arts and culture sector. So I'm really not a fan of the hard drive, but compared to the Burgtheater, the 20 million € that are supposed to come in are absolutely manageable. I do not suggest that we should compensate for this by public means. This is just a comparison that affects the world of life of the creative economy. I would expect the Burgtheater to be creative in the broadest sense. We have 38 500 companies in the creative industry in Austria. 63 percent of these are one-person companies. This is a much higher share than in other sectors. These are 12,000 self-employed people in the field of music, literature, art alone. They wanted to delete the profit-free amount – these self-employed, who would like to be a capi- talists and capitalists. These are the ones who will become even more angry now when they will hear the story with the Burgtheater and the numbers that are in play with it. If half of these 12,000 people come across the limit of €30 000 a year, that is, above the flattening limit, then this is probably far too high. Nevertheless: If this half on average can claim a tax savings of € 2 000 or actually tax justice over the profit-free amount, then that is € 12 million. This is about the amount that the Burgtheater on top needs. But the Burgtheater can also save a little bit thanks to the much praised pay-side reduction. I figured this out in the meantime. The additional wage reduction will bring per employee in 47 €. In the case of the Burgtheater, this is €26 600 with a staffing effort of €36.8 million. If the self-employed wish to claim this benefit, they must buy housing bonds. At the Burgtheater, it is enough if the management refuses to pay the basic bill in order to get its year six as an employee tax-privileged. Summary: A company in the cultural sector produces an annual failure which is in the same order as the tax fairness for the entire creative industries in this area and beyond. A company with not even 600 employees who, by the way, receive an average gross salary of €3 700 causes the same cost to the general public as the 12 000 EPUs, which are tax-equivalent to all other employees. There is still no mention of further support. And the government wanted to delete this fiscal equality. At this point we have to ask ourselves whether the concentration of subsidisation on few prestige objects in this order is still modern. The Burgtheater is at least an opportunity to think about the sizes in which the cultural company is promoted today and whether the distribution is still appropriate. And if I speak of distribution, I mean the statistical concept. Most of the production in the arts and culture sector is undoubtedly in the Long Tail. The independent cultural creators, the entrepreneurs, the civil capitalists, who are top fit in the basic calculations, are now rightly wondering why this government wanted to refuse tax equal treatment with the management of a state company. It is a matter of culture of responsibility in this respect, it is a matter of example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e15378	Mr. Dr. Cap is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e15399	So somehow I must remind you that the Burgtheater, which we are talking about here now, is not a theatre, but one of the most important cultural institutions in Austria – the German-speaking theatre in the German-speaking area, which we are all very proud of! Therefore, we should deliberately deal with this very responsibly. Nobody is now saying that it is not to be checked or checked. If I listen to what devices are already included in the test facility, I have to say: There was no one to worry about anyway. But I think – and this is also referred to by Mrs. Maria Fekter – that one also has to consider this leading position of the Burgtheater, the exemplary, great composition of the ensemble, the programme and the productions that are offered there. And when you talk about savings, you also have to say what you mean by that, because it will eventually be the subject: Should it be with the productions? Should it be with the cost of technology? There are different possibilities. I would already ask that there be the appropriate statements in the ongoing debate. Of course, you can ask urgent questions whenever you want. It is more efficient if at least the test report is on the table, because at least then you have a real basis for discussion. Now to what has been said in the questions: Of course, you provoke very clear answers: either that you say it is not the subject of execution, or that you say we have to wait until the test report is available; or: if you had searched yourself, you could have given the answer yourself; or: the reference to legal regulations. Then perhaps 25 of 72 questions would have remained, but of course they would have had a different weight than if you were imposing a urgent request here, where there are many questions that I say are, that is somehow good or okay for the first time, but it might have been a failure if you had done a little more carefully on the urgent request. [[Inter-calls at the NEOS.]] The call of the colleague Rosary has been a bit sad, because they have suppressed their own exercise, the black and blue time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz.]] Morak used Hartmann. Don't forget that! That's why this was exactly the wrong thing you quoted here. That was the Chef coloring even in the cultural field. I'm saying the black boss, because he didn't take any account of you at all at that time. Therefore, the quote is definitely inappropriate. I would like to tell you this clearly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But this is not about Mr Rosenkranz, but about something else. The NEOS programme contains a very interesting sentence, namely: ‘It is important to consider and critically question where it is justified to obtain subsidies from the public art and cultural spheres, and where other sources, (economic promotion, tourism) should be opened.’ That's okay! But you say at the same time: “Despite upright artistic freedom, promotions – in particular outstanding promotions – have always been of a leading nature.” That's interesting now. I would like to discuss that once. What do you mean? – I am already of the opinion that contemporary art of course also has a corresponding support. But you say that this means less subsidies to the Burgtheater in the final effect. It can fail, too. It can also be true that the economy does not come from what is meant by the reduction of subsidies. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Meinl-Risinger.]] And then we'll be there! We must therefore already ask the principle question: Should the Burgtheater continue to play a leading role in the German-speaking region: yes or no? Tell me if you want the voluntary reduction. But then you have to pronounce it. This is really a reduction of importance, of productions and of various other things. [[New call of the abg. May. Meinl-Risinger.]] Discuss! I have to cheer up a little, so that we can get into a debate, because I have too little economic approach to the whole question, because it really is also about other things in this context. Look, I'm telling you quite honestly: Director Hartmann puts it to the fore when, in a “standard” interview, he says: “At the same time, the liabilities have increased steadily and have, among other things, been postponed to the future by depreciation of productions.” That's what you've quoted. Hartmann then on a demand: “Nevertheless, there was the hope that there would be an increase in the public grant in the future and that one could be saved in this way.” That's the answer! We don't need to talk about that for long. This was ultimately the answer of Morak's director. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Meinl-Risinger.]] What do I want to represent with it? – The fact is that you said: We're the big National Theatre! And of course we expect the Republic to support and support it accordingly. And now we have reached the crossroads – except where there can really be savings, without the artistic quality suffering a loss, without the leadership of the castle theatre being threatened, and and and so. If this “without” is fulfilled, I would like to have the discussion with you here, where specific changes are to be made without putting it at risk. That's where I have to say: I am at the forefront when it comes to mobilizing opponents for contemporary art, also for other theatres and also for the State Opera, for everyone. But to question the leadership position of the Burgtheater, I am not there, I must tell you, because we can be proud that there is this institution – culturally proud, nationally proud. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Meinl-Reisinger]] And in fact, this is a very essential point for the tourism that you so praised. We should really take this into account, as I mean.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e15549	Mrs Jank is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e15570	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Listeners on the ranks and in front of the televisions! Yes, I can only join Mr Cap's burning words: The Burgtheater is an essential institution for our country and for Vienna in particular, due to the value added effects, due to the employment effects, due to direct investment. And it is in the debate that is necessary and important, and in the investigation that is necessary and important, that it is not to overlook this and not to pour the child out with the bath; because, because of the effects that are linked to it throughout Austria and which are far beyond that, where Austria is considered to be the cultural nation, we should be careful in our choice of words, especially in the theatre area with the Burgtheater and in the German-speaking area. That's what I'm pleading for, what I'm calling for! We must not hide things, everything must be clarified cleanly, and the consequences must, of course, be met, but the choice of words with which we do this is, I believe, crucial to averting damage from this cultural institution. We, the Vienna Chamber of Commerce, conducted a study by the IHS in 2008 to see exactly what effects such a cultural institution actually has. It is not just a comparison, I would like to say to my colleague. So not everything you like is to be associated with the creative economy. The Burgtheater is a cultural institution and a cultural institution and is not included in the figures of the creative economy. At that time, 2008 – and this has been a long time – this study promoted impressive figures: We have a direct value added of € 45 million. Due to a wide variety of economic links, an additional €10 million is added as an indirect added value. Other effects of €3 million have been achieved in the regions outside. At the time, in 2008, employment effects of 705 people were affected. The Burgtheater not only works directly, that is, directly, but there are also economic effects through cultural tourism, namely through those people who come to us to see the performances in the Burgtheater. Cultural tourism alone brings effects of 25.5 million €. In addition, €4 million of generated effects abroad are added. That's about €30 million in value added effects. The employment effects of cultural tourism have been much more than 800 people, and public revenue has also been added. So the Burgtheater alone is an essential institution in our economic landscape of the country, which ensures that not only those who create culture but many also have a fixed, fixed workplace, a secure workplace. It must be our common effort to ensure that this will continue to be the case in the future. Therefore, my appeal and my request: Let us discuss this, but let us do so with the appropriate careful choice of words! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e15615	Mr Dr. Walser is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e15637	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! High house! Mr Jank, this has already been a debate on culture, but you have actually brought only economic aspects – exactly what Mr Cap meant, we should not do. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jank]] We should not see this – in this case I support Mr Cap – purely economic and not look at it under a purely economic approach. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rasinger.]] Please, my colleague. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: This shows how important the topic is!]] – Of course, the subject is important. I also understand that the representative of the economy stresses the economic aspect. But we have admitted here an institution that would also have to hold a cultural debate – which, among other things, should also be conducted from an economic point of view – but that is not the case at present. Mr Cap, this paternalist tone to the colleague Meinl-Reisinger could have saved you, I must tell you in all clarity, because the questions she has asked here are more than right, and the answers have been more than poor for years. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] And if you tell us to be proud of the Burgtheater, I have to tell you: Pride poses certain dangers, namely that one may see past reality that one overestimates oneself a bit. And that is exactly what seems to me to be the case with some of the representatives here. I think we should do what the Burgtheater itself did on the occasion of its 125th anniversary. There a large survey was carried out, a congress with the theme “What theatre do we dream of? ” In the meantime, it has become apparent that we are dealing with a financial nightmare theatre, because there has been a lot of happening. We have heard many events at this congress – many events about what we expect from a castle theatre: a place of dialogue, a place of contradiction, a place also of provocation, cultural provocation. All of this has rightly been said by bad people. What impressed me most was an unplanned speech. It has been adopted as a “department of the creditor” who has used a break to point out an aspect that leads directly to our present subject, namely financial conduct, also in relation to moral aspects. I quote him – it's the placer Christian Diaz –: “It is urgent at the time that the castle theatre presents itself with the unfair, hierarchical and unolidaric working conditions in its own home.” I think that is also an aspect that we should consider in this regard. Christian Diaz is one of 400 employees who, at the Wiener Bundestheaters, strive to show the audience the place, and who now also sell the programs, et cetera, et cetera. And he rightly criticises the fact that in 1996 some things happened, which, as I believe, is not compatible with the Austrian cultural nation, and which we, Mr Cap, cannot be proud of, for example, that he himself is no longer an employee of the Burgtheater, but an employee of a security company, an international security company with a total of 600,000 employees. He complained about being confronted in the Burgtheater with colleagues and face-to-face prisons running deportation camps, et cetera, et cetera. – This is the current situation of staff in the Burgtheater, which I believe we should take seriously! I remember some remarkable events. I have visited the production “The Last Witnesses” in the Burgtheater myself. What would these last witnesses say about this fact? – I think they have also found some clear words for this, at least at the event I was at. The Burgtheater is – it was rightly pointed out – not a private institution. It belongs to a hundred percent directly or indirectly to the federal government, and one must be clear: It must be over with the mystery of the financial events in this area! [[Congratulation with greens and NEOS.]] We currently have the situation that Parliament has no control options. We can't look into the operation. However, it would be an essential cultural task to control in this area. However, this is currently being prevented. The Burgtheater lacks, above all, the parliamentary right to interpolate, as has already been pointed out. Parliamentarians cannot ask questions. If they ask questions, they will be swept away. The ever-increasing deficit is therefore, one must admit honestly, not controlled. Wolfgang Zinggl has been referring to this for many, many years. He has asked a whole series of questions in this regard: on the delivery of the Burgtheater, on the delivery of the State Opera, on the conduct of the Volksoper. The answers in recent years – you can read this – have almost always been the same: These are only daughters of the Bundestheater-Holding. This is beyond parliamentary control. Ladies and gentlemen, this must not continue, and I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I think that's very, very important. If we had this right of interconnection, we could save ourselves a lot of today's discussion. It could not arise in the Burgtheater, I think, as a financial debacle as we currently have, if at the same time appropriate ministerial measures were to be taken. I can point out that the Bundestheater evaluation was still attesting improvements of €5 million in 2013. This is a joke when we imagine reality and the deficit. Something's wrong. There's something really wrong with that. If we don't want this to go on, we need parliamentary control. We need to be able to control the directors of the Bundestheater. We should know which side jobs they have. I think there's a lot in the arse. I would also like to know what they deserve. I would also like to know if they do not have part of their salary if they do other activities. All of this is currently in the dark. I mean, that's an unacceptable situation. Minister Ostermayer, I would have liked to end with a quote from you: In the next few weeks, all measures will be completed for a complete investigation of the past. - Quote. Done, Minister! However, I decided to have Mr Billeeur speak again at the end of the day. He says: “It is not enough to give a good image to the public with pompous charity events such as the ‘lifeball’. It’s time for the Burgtheater to take care of all the people who contribute to the realization of the entire theatre!” – Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e15728	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e15804	Next speaker: Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e15825	Madam President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear listeners to the televisions! The Causa Burgtheater was already conducted by colleagues in principle. Of course, we from the Stronach team confess ourselves clearly to Austria's culture country, while, as mentioned earlier, it is quite important in this Causa to question the control of the responsible personalities and their efficiency. A sufficient number of staff are available and the extent to which it has fulfilled its supervisory obligations and reporting obligations should be questioned. In Upper Austria we have seen an interesting development. There is now the proposal of the state government towards a Kultur GmbH. I think that this would also be a thought at the federal level, that better control bodies should be established or introduced here, and that, Mrs Fekter, in addition, better control systems, especially in the direction of personal alliances, which, as you have seen, arise where possible benefits – also politically motivated advantages – come into play. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: There's already that! The Bundestheater-Holding!]] It would be important that more objectivity prevails from home. I think it would be very essential to extend this beyond the Burgtheater, at the federal level. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: There's already that! The Bundestheater-Holding!]] – Yes, and then why didn’t it work better? Then the question that has already been asked to you today has been justified. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] In budgetaryly scarce times – and we have had very detailed budget discussions and heard the taxpayers ask for the checkout – it is just, as already mentioned, irresponsible when, in part, ten percent wage increases are taking place, as has obviously happened in recent years. I also wonder how far this was covered by the GmbH, Mrs Fekter, or how such a thing could take place. But we have a very different problem, because of the effect that this creates: One thing is, of course, the motivation of the artists at the paid institutions and theatres, but let's also think about what this has for all volunteers! This is a disaster that has an effect throughout Austria. There are thousands of people who volunteer, who perform great achievements, unique achievements. Mrs Fekter, you will also know the St. Josephs stage in Timelkam, for example. – Perfect, you don’t know if you’re sitting in a state-funded cultural company or whether it’s really private artist who makes it volunteer. In part, they provide the proceeds even for charitable purposes – that is, not to put in the bag or to be subsidized, but to donate these proceeds if they are not needed for investments in the equipment or equipment. I should like to mention very briefly the following figures: Let's think of the 1 467 theatre and lay play groups we have in Austria. This is also cultural property, and the Otto normal consumer, the citizen outside the country can give himself this cultural pleasure. One thing we have forgotten: It was mentioned that the Burgtheater has a tourist significance – but of course for a very small population, which can then also afford these visits. You have to say that clearly. I can also mention the thousands of musical chapels on this occasion. We have over 3 300 musical chapels, in which functional, active musicians, and the youth music groups are volunteering to do excellent work. And then they hear these discussions. If those who sit with the sample today, tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, at the play sample, follow this discussion, then this leads to de-motivation. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] So also for this reason: restless reconnaissance! It belongs to light in the dark, especially in the Causa Burgtheater. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e15887	Mr Klubobmann is now speaking on behalf of Mr Strolz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e15908	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear citizens! The Burgtheater is the theme. Minister Ostermayer! Mrs Heinisch-Hosek! If we do the Burgtheater here on the subject, what do you think, why do we do that? Do you think that's a street sweeper? Do you think we're going to choose the theme because we think that's certainly the theme that's bringing all the people in front of the screens? - No, and we know that. Cultural policy is a minority issue in Austria. If Mrs Beate Meinl-Reisinger is getting into the stuff and is going through the weekend through all the documents, then she naturally makes this clear from her responsibility as a mandater and from a passion for cultural and art policy in Austria, since she believes that it is not sufficiently perceived by this federal government – and also by the last federal government. [[Abg. May. Meinl-Risinger: Not just the weekend!]] Of course we discussed in the club for a long time: Do we do this topic or do we make the topic of Hypo Alpe-Adria? The latter is far from over in this House. We'll have a urgent one tomorrow, as far as I've heard that. We have therefore decided on the topic of Burgtheater, because of course we are interested in estimated federal government as you look at this topic. In small as in large, we are interested in how you look at the topic of responsibility culture. The terrifying is for me this parallel of Hypo Alpe-Adria and Burgtheater. Of course, as the Federal Government, one could now do with the attitude: This is about €8 million to €12 million. These are all peanuts. It's not that bad when it goes by. - We'll talk about a threatening 18 billion € hole tomorrow. But that's exactly what we criticize: That's a question of attitude! And today you have not completed this attitude question positively, because from my point of view the question has not been answered positively in terms of the culture of responsibility, nor in terms of the question what you intend to do. If we ask Question 1: “Since when has the BMUKK been aware of the difficult financial situation of the Burgtheater regarding liquidity and the threat of deficit?”, you say, you cannot answer that, because you can’t say anything, that has to be said to you by an external advisor. - That's absurd! But then we don't need the art section in your house. That's completely absurd. [[I should like to congratulate the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Ostermayer.]] If we ask the question: “Is there any indication of the threatening deficit from the periodic reports that must be delivered to the BMUKK?”, you say, you can’t answer that, because you have to wait for KPMG. – That too is absurd! That's completely absurd. Then you don't need an art section. [[I should like to congratulate the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.]] [[Abg. Kickl: He's unnecessary!]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Ostermayer.]] They obviously do not read the reports – from the balance sheet to the cultural report. Of course, there were several indications that something was not properly on the road. Then sit here and smile away the questions, and the impression of a certain inadequacies of this federal government remains. That's just going through, from the Hypo Alpe-Adria to the Burgtheater: Inconsistency as an answer. They didn't grow the phenomena of a complex world, they seem to me. It is not clear to you that you, as the owner, of course also have certain obligations. It is also not clear to you that politics should not, of course, make cultural policy in the sense of: We write the plan and we do the intensity!, but our job is – and we are committed and well paid for it – to set a proper framework for such institutions and to control them as well. You do not meet this responsibility enough if you simply smile away from the questions – too casually from my point of view. I would have liked to hear from you, Minister: What to Remember Do you need to take action in the field of a modern regulatory and regulatory culture in the field of culture? I would've been interested in: Do you think that the processes of integrated planning at the castle are sufficient? Do you consider the processes of accounting to be modern and modern? I'd like to know about you: Do you think that the revision at a farm with 2 400 employees is correct? I would have liked to know about you: Is that the right answer, what the structures are at the moment in the distributed cultural farms? I think the step in disseminating was a real one, but of course we have to ask ourselves again and again – and now would be a real time – the question: Are the governance structures up-to-date? I would have expected a bit more awareness of the problem from you, Mr Minister, and not just a smile that is sympathetic, but unfortunately does not help in the matter.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e16024	Now comes Mrs Mag. Muttons. [[Abg. Dr. Strolz speaks to Federal Minister Dr. Ostermayer.]] – Mr Strolz, we should continue. Mrs Magnette has now come to speak. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e16054	Madam President. Mrs Heinisch-Hosek! Minister Ostermayer! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, Mr Strolz, if you address the point of view, I must say: But it is also a matter of attitude, how to produce a lot of wind without facts. That's what you've been trying here all afternoon. We want to work serially. That is why we have a meeting of the Committee on Culture and that is why we are waiting for this report, which then gives us the facts. We don't want to juggle with suspicions and speculations. Now there are fears taken, distrust reduced, emotional waves smoothed, communication started, bridges built and above all kept a cool head. – This is what the “standard” wrote on 20 July. February. ‘Transparency and facts against heating’, according to the ‘Kurier’, an article of the 18th century. February. – Ladies and gentlemen, that is exactly what we need. We need transparency, we need complete information, we need a rework of the events surrounding the castle, and this path has already been started. We've been talking about this today. A report has been commissioned by external and independent auditors, and this report is expected to be completed by the end of the week. We will soon have the meeting of the Committee on Culture, which will discuss everything on the basis of the report and on the basis of the data then available. Communication has also been initiated. Thus, the members of the ensemble have already been discussed and another appointment has been made. I understand this, ladies and gentlemen, with a serious approach to problems. We do not place any emphasis on holding a show in which we speculate with suspicions, where we have no facts and facts. Despite the inconsistencies that exist now, I would like to say that the Burgtheater, which plays a leading role in the German-speaking area, is deeply rooted in the population and has a profound appreciation. [[Abg. May. Loacker:... Inconsistencies!]] – These are two different areas. There is the economic sector and then also the artistic area, and for this artistic area the appreciation is a very great one. The question that still arises is why we are there, where Mrs Meinl-Reisinger said at the beginning of her speech, it has all been so wonderful and so well and so properly initiated. In other words, we are not discussing the events surrounding the castle, we cannot discuss this because we do not have the facts, but we will do so in a very detailed manner in the next Committee on Culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e16092	Next speaker: Mrs Dipl.-Kffr.Pfurtscheller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e16116	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate viewers on the gallery and on the screens! My preliminary speakers have already addressed in detail the financial and organisational issues related to the difficulties in which the Burgtheater is currently in place. I would like to draw your attention to another aspect, namely the people at the Burgtheater. The Burgtheater is not only an Austrian cultural institution of world reputation that attracts and delights thousands of visitors every year, the Burgtheater is also an employer for many renowned and recognized artists. This workforce is, of course, extremely alarmed and insecure due to recent events and media discussions and has, at last, also expressed its concern. It is therefore important that we convey to the ensemble that both the economically responsible and the political side are dealt with with with with reason, calmness and thought, because this ensemble, which is supposed to provide artistic best performances every evening, can certainly most certainly be used for the economic problems of the castle. I can see that, as a new Committee on Culture, Mrs Meinl-Reisinger, you are not pleased that your wish for immediate discussion of the difficulties in which the Burgtheater is located has not been met in the Committee on Culture. You are new to this function and naturally want to be able to prove activities from your site as soon as possible. We, too, are interested in the fact that the events discussed in your urgent request around the Burgtheater are clarified, discussed and the correct consequences drawn. But in order to do exactly that, it is necessary that all the facts are completely on the table. It has already been pointed out several times by Minister Ostermayer and my previous speakers that the report of the auditor will not be available until March. That is why I would like to ask you, Mrs Kulturcommitteeobfrau, and your colleagues from NEOS, to change the subject of non-privileged political change now by calling on the media to release immediately from various persons whose guilt has not yet been proved safe, but to wait until all the data is on the table so that the correct conclusions and consequences can then be drawn. [[Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz: One has already been released!]] Yes, we have the responsibility to examine, discuss and ensure that improvements are started, but we also have responsibility for the people who are artistically active in the service of the federal government and deserve to be treated fairly. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e16172	Now comes Mrs Mag. I'm talking about Jarmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e16193	Madam President. High house! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! I find it exciting that, at a time when we are discussing taxpayers, we now have such a case, and I would like to highlight two issues in particular. On the one hand, with regard to expenditure on state funds, three principles must be observed: Economics, prudence and sparingness. Let us now imagine what this means, for example, for small associations who apply to various public bodies. There are very precise rules, very precise directives, which this small association has everything to do to reach these public funding funds. You have to make precise lists, you have to draw up budget plans, you have to assign individual items to each item. That means that there are very precise and very difficult conditions for these associations; that is, I think, well known here in this House. If, for example, one cannot now fully comply with this funding plan and if it becomes apparent that small deviations arise, then one has to make a request separately from the promoter, which is about whether an increase in individual posts is possible. That is, if you only have a 5 per cent deviation, you already need a general application. That's how it works for small clubs. So, and now I'm wondering, How is this possible in this great style? My colleague has already mentioned this: How could it have been that under the premise of these three requirements it was possible that the ensemble of the castle theatre had flown to London to try there, only because the director did not come to Austria? We have the principles – I repeat it – economic efficiency, effectiveness, sparingness, and there you really have to ask yourself: How could that have happened? It is important to remind you, all of you here in this House are Members, and you all have a very essential task here, and this task is: People's representatives. That is to say, our role and our task is to really carefully deal with the state funds, not to wait, not to say, let's see what this final report will bring, but we have a really serious task. Mr Cap, what you have said goes in this direction too. That's so important! If you really take your task and these measures seriously, you should make sure that we can make a survey here as soon as possible in this House, a survey in which we really think about how we can shape the structures in the future in such a way that such a thing can no longer happen. Because in view of these shortcomings, as we find them here now, I have to say, we do not know whether we do not have various bodies in the basements of the other theatre. In order to prevent this and to ensure that this cannot happen again, we must meet in the House very quickly, best before the summer, all together and have a public discussion about how we can improve the structures, because we have seen what the structures we currently have lead to. This is the one point I would like to mention. The second point I would like to make is: My colleague, Harald Walser, has tabled a motion for a resolution on the right of interaction, and I would like to support him here again and point out the importance. For we must have the right to ask, we must have the right to know: What happens to the money? Are excursions being made? Where are they going? And: What are the funds spent on? At present we do not have this right, and with the answers: Well, you don't know, you still have to wait, and so on, so we can't take over our task of control. It is therefore important that we stick together here. If you, ladies and gentlemen of the Government parties, really take this seriously, I would ask you to submit the motion for a resolution of my colloquium. support Zinggl and Walser. That would be a sign that you're really taking this seriously. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Such mistakes, as we are now experiencing here, must not happen in the future! I would like to thank all of you, and I hope that you will hear and look forward to further cooperation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e16265	Mrs Mag. Meinl-Reisinger has spoken a second time. I'll set the clock to 4 minutes. You have a total residence time of 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e16287	I have to say that I have rarely been looking forward to such a speech, as I have been very often pointed out that it should be a matter of facts, rather than having an overheated, emotional debate. Obviously all the clues from the same spin-doctor you have. I would like to focus briefly on the facts that I believe should be known by the Minister – if they are not him – and should also be known to you as cultural speaker and cultural speaker. – Mr Dr. Cap, I would like to speak to you, but first of all to the facts. So, fact number one: the annual accounts of last year. [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] I've already quoted it, Matthias Strolz has also done it; You can also read it in the cultural report. It is clearly stated here that there is a deficit of €3.7 million due to a modified writing practice. When it has started, you can also read in the annual accounts. Then I would like to inform you of the minutes of the meeting of the Burgtheater's shareholders, which show that the reduction of the stock capital was decided in response to the deficit that had already arisen last year and that it was clear that it was going to come about again this year, and where it was clear that action must be taken. Detto’s report of the Supervisory Board of Burgtheater GmbH on the 2011/2012 financial year, which in turn reads: The Supervisory Board recommends a retroactive reduction of the stock capital to 31.8 by 3.6 million euros, as well as the determination of the annual accounts. That means, that's facts! It is known that the Burgtheater has a problem with a balanced balance. Furthermore, it is a fact that the liabilities to credit institutions increased significantly between 2008 and 2009. Goods in the 2008 financial year in the level of liabilities as at 31. One year later, after the start of the Hartmann Directorate, the amount of liabilities to credit institutions with a maturity of one year, i.e. liquidity issues, was €1.7 million. This is really a significant increase. And you should know these reports! You are responsible as a ministry, you have company rights here! It's a shame if you tell me you have to wait for a forensic investigation. By the way, I have to say: This forensic investigation then I probably did on the last nights, which I struck around the ears, where I just looked at the documents that appear in the company's book. Furthermore, I refer to the evaluation report commissioned by the Ministry “Legal evaluation of the German theatre group” by KWR, in which we can read – I hope I find it so quickly now –: At the general meeting of the Bundestheater-Holding GmbH, the representatives of the federal government can give instructions to the managing director, who can in turn act as a ownership representative in the subsidiaries according to the instructions. - Quote. Why didn't you do that if you had to see that we were heading towards a deficit to that extent? [[Federal Minister Dr. Ostermayer: Because at the time we were not in office, if that should have been done to you!]] - You don't! Finally, I would like to draw your attention to the way out of the crisis and quote again the efficiency analysis of Ernst & Young, which states that the Group revision is underdimension – I have already said – and where a number of problems have been identified in risk management. This report was in the ministry. Now I would like to say a few words about our cultural programme. There will be a problem to finance this great cultural institution, the entire art and cultural institutions. This is due to the hypo, among other things. 19 billion: With this amount, we could finance the Federal Budget for Art and Culture for 42 years and fund the budget of all the Bundestheater together for more than 130 years. That means there will be distribution problems here. We point out that a lot of money is parked in these large institutions, which do excellent work and really contribute to high performance in the field of art and culture. Please talk to the free scene and ask the people there how they see it! And after the remarks of President Jank, I come to the idea that there is a lot of economic and tourism promotion. Now, finally, the way out of the crisis. I know you're not responsible for what was in the past. But it is all the more important that you act decisively now, Minister, and that you set signs that you are in the sense of the new style, the They have promised to deal transparently with such crises in the future and also to make decisions that may not be easy, but absolutely necessary, to prevent such crises in the future at other theatres, such as State Opera or Volksoper, or whatever. You have no reason to do so, all the more so now you have the opportunity to act decisively and to ward off the damage that this cultural nation has already done in Germany and abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e16338	Next speaker: Mr Mölzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e16360	Madam President. Minister! Minister! High house! Finally, one must say that there is today a picture, a sad one The concept of the Austrian state-owned culture, where one has to almost grasp the idea that art creation combined with state funding results in something that looks forward to waste money, which looks forward to being married and which is characterized by an absolute inefficiency of the business. That's a sad thing. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There is no question at all – I am going to take a short look – that there is absolutely a need for information to be clarified, who carries responsibility in the holding, who carries responsibility in the castle theatre itself. But on the other hand, of course, you will have to ask yourself the question: Who bears political responsibility, and where has the Minister for Foreign Affairs been the last five years? But what I think is clear: It can't go on as it is now. One cannot say that we are clarifying this, and then we look on, but one has to think for the future about how to become the master of this matter. There is a variant that I do not support, but it would be a: One makes the whole thing completely private in the future, deletes the state subsidies and sees where they stay. This is one thing we do not support. Or you just have a cultural responsibility and you do what you started at the end of the nineties, what I think you did wrong at the time: One goes back and reunites this Bundestheater-Holding into the ministry to ensure state control in the future for something where state or tax money flows in order to prevent any external experts and uncontrollable mechanisms from working here in the future. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In this sense, I can conclude by saying that it is going in the right direction: We also support the request made by Mr Zinggl, by the Greens, that we have at least the right to interact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e16417	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Zinggl, colleagues on the right of interconnection in the case of subsidiaries of companies owned by the Federal Government, in particular in the area of the Bundestheater. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give this request a sign. - That's not the majority. The application is therefore rejected. [[18:58:03]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e16456	We shall resume the negotiations on points 2 and 3 of the agenda. Mr Ing. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. May. Big. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e16481	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that we can now continue to discuss the tax-change law at this time of the day. Why do I emphasize that? The one group makes the first amendments to the law that we are to decide today before two meetings. The rest is already talking about this law in the debates on the Rules of Procedure. Even when it comes to “the castle, ” the tax - change law is discussed. Now we can start the debate again. When we saw the draft in the EIA, we immediately began the negotiations. We talked intensively about the issues, and a lot could be achieved. I thank you because we can see here how parliamentarianism works and that we, the two government parties, can move and do a lot together. The tax-change law has also included a number of very positive points which you have so far not striped, because you do not want to bring positive things to the public. It abolishes the social tax – that is already in it and will be decided today – a demand that has passed for many years and which is not even worth mentioning to you. We are starting to relieve small businesses by increasing the limits of turnover tax on accounting. This too is a requirement that we all have and that is partially implemented. Thank you very much for being involved from the beginning. Of course, we did not have our joy with every point from the beginning. At the “GmbH light” we have had to have some discussion, but it remains that this can be filled up with favoured profits and thus allows the creation of the companies. It was also important to redefine the real investment in terms of profit-free amount. That's where the definition came through in the direction of housing bonds. I hope that some other real investment – which might come into our minds together – can also come to the train. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] Yes, the economy is making a contribution. We also have changes in the use of losses, we have changes in provisions, we have changes in group taxation. - Yes, we carry them. However, we are not really happy with all the points. We cannot really be happy with the bank levy, because it can make crediting considerably difficult for small and medium-sized enterprises, but in the overall view we will carry it. The frame is positive all around. The craftsman bonus will come, the additional wage costs will be reduced. With regard to the applications for the Small Stock Corporation which have come: These things work, they are currently working with drug rights, they are also working in connection with crowdfunding, which is constantly being advised. There are, in line with the FMA, these things. They must be published accordingly. Thus, the application concerning Kleine Aktiengesellschaft falls, as it is already possible and feasible in the current legal matter. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e16542	Next item is the report by Mr Köchl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e16579	Dear ladies! Dear gentlemen! High house! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the televisions! I have already heard today that the word “hypocritical” must not be used; but “holy” I may say already in connection with the ÖVP. That's not, I think, on the evil list yet. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] – “Holy” may be called them, but that is not the subject now. We're talking about the tax-change law. We've heard a lot about it today, which is embarrassing to me. They have said that it is a symbolic act to reduce the additional wage costs. – 0.1 percent, a symbolic act?! - Yeah, that's a fact finding. I hope that as many people as possible will see you put a “symbolic act” here. I believe that many entrepreneurs would like to have more than this symbolic act, namely real measures, real reforms. We have a proposal concerning profit-free amount, where we say we want to raise the base base from €30 000 to €60 000 a year. . I would like to ask a colleague to make the request so that I can make it properly. [[Abg. Wenninger: Have we forgotten something?]] We Greens have a very clear proposal and stick to it. We have clear ideas regarding the GmbH light. At the light GmbH you have now shown that you have implemented a reform last year, then have long withdrawn a play in conjunction with the Chamber of Commerce – thank you very much! – and at the end everything remains the same. [[Abg. Brosz brings to the speaker the above-mentioned request for the speaker's vote]] And then everyone should be happy about it, but you can buy housing bonds. So if this is a reform, I really ask you: Why do you insure the entrepreneurs so massively that at the end everything remains the same, and – hurra, hurra! – you can buy housing bonds then? – This is absolutely a joke in my eyes. Let's call it a joke. – This is a “sacred” ÖVP. You make a nova reform where you put the lid at 32 percent. There are good proposals for this; for example, the NoVA is even allowed to go into the minus, and then there is a promotion for electric cars – without any form of funding. These are, I believe, approaches that we should really pursue. You have spoken so much today, you have also spoken of security in all its contexts. However, to our self-employed in Austria, you do not give any security at all at all at this time, but there is ongoing uncertainty. If, in connection with the GmbH, the word “privileged” is to stand in the company’s book, that’s a bit of a joke in my eyes, because you don’t need to write it into the company’s book anymore. [[Abg. Brosz: The ÖVP usually knows how to write “privilegies”!]] You can see this anyway at the parent capital, then you can see on the spot in the company book anyway what you are about. So: If you use the word “privileged” in this context, I ask you, estimated ÖVP: Why did you not propose to the farmers, to all farms, to register with each ‘subsidized’? - You wouldn't do that either. Or: They would not write to each group “group tax beneficiary”. You're not going to get that idea either. In the case of the notaries, you would not write “competitively protected. ” – But no, at Kleinen GmbH you have to write “privileged” on it. Well, long speech short sense: I now come with a proposal on the profit-free amount. We Greens make a second start and submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] That would be a very, very concrete measure. I would urge you to decide once, instead of continuing to sunk in your reform inability. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e16663	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Köchl is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e16745	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Unterrainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e16766	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary Steßl! Mr. State Secretary Danninger! Ladies and gentlemen! The spectators in the hall and the remaining in front of the television sets, welcome! Only those who set the right course in good time will continue to ride straight ahead and under full steam in the future. Today's tax-change law is our course of tomorrow. That's why: If we focus on taxation, we will focus on the meeting of right decisions to take care of today and tomorrow! And that is the decisive thing: to take care of today and tomorrow. That's what really interests us and the coming generations. We are committed to Austrian conditions, for example for low unemployment. Whether the ruling criticism is objectively and unfounded or unfounded, it is best to be judged and illustrated by each individual by drawing comparisons with Spain, Greece or Italy. Why, I ask you, why are we Austrians in Europe and in the world so good today and are we able to continue this course? Why does the economic crisis in neighbouring countries simply sweep thousands of jobs, thousands of jobs, but why not in Austria? I say it to you: because we manage fairly because we allow investments in housing bonds and at the same time limit tax relief. There will probably be a reason why we have the least unemployed in Europe, there will be a reason why delegations from the neighbouring countries come to us and let us know about the Austrian success model, such as the fight against youth unemployment. Ladies and gentlemen! We, which we are acting today, are actually creating for us the room we need tomorrow. We do and receive this despite the economic crisis. Dear friends and colleagues from FPÖ, we do this despite the huge hypo-deaster, despite the huge hypo-last you left us in Carinthia. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek.]] And in doing so, we receive the social state without cuts. However, for this to remain the same, we must make adjustments – adjustments that are just and accountable; Adjustments such as restriction of group taxation, increase and extension of bank charges, strike of tax privileges of the top managers, the GmbH light and post-advantage improvements, so that entry into the economy is facilitated. And the new regulation of the NOVA – even if it is criticized – is ultimately targeted because it supports environmentally friendly cars. These measures, ladies and gentlemen, are actually the key to Austria's economic stability. We are not in Spain, where over a quarter of the people are looking for a job and where a delogging takes place every 15 minutes. In this context, I would like to remind you of the images that are inspired by the media – pictures of Spaniards with trill pipes on the streets that have drawn attention to their situation, pictures of people who have raised the key bonds to the height to demonstrate against the financial and real estate crisis. That's why: Yes to a profit-free amount and the possibility to invest in residential bonds. So indeed to invest in the real economy and indeed to a social housing that allows those who need it a roof over their heads, and not those who are looking for lucrative investment variants out of greed and profit maximization. And above all, to a just Europe, to a just Austria and indeed to a social state. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is my understanding of an Austrian-social market economy. This is my understanding of a way to a just future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e16834	The next item is the report by Mr Vetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e16855	Mr President. Representatives of the Government! High house! Last week, we were particularly concerned with one issue: That was the discussion about the Hypo Alpe-Adria, i.e. the failure of banking socialism. If the government wishes to increase taxes under the tax-change law now under discussion, this has, above all, almost exclusively its reason for the need to finance this disaster. And if you open another field with so-called free gears, I can only say: This government will not succeed in shaking the failure of banking socialism through the introduction of a “pattern socialism”. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. Pendl: He was good!]] I take two measures out of the economic and growth-reducing tax-change law: the indebtedness of salaries over €500 000 and the increase in standard consumption. Both measures are in common that they provoke circumvention and ultimately bring more revenue to a Fiscus, but not to the Austrian, but to a foreign, probably to the Slovak. Discrimination of high salaries is due to an appeal from the Constitutional Court, which will be possible next week thanks to the recent possibility of appeal in the event of immediate concern. It is not only unheard-of, but also economic nonsense, because we know that the additional wage costs in Austria are overly high and it is now already difficult to employ international top managers in our companies, because everyone knows that we have a top rate of 50 percent. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] In the future, if at all, these people will be employed in foreign subsidiaries, which will actually avoid the Austrian Fiscus tax revenue. This is the result of your policy. [[New condolences with the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. Krainer: That doesn't matter at all!]] If you believe that you have to fight the luxury in particular, I would like to ask if you are starting to ban this as an operating issue, then what is next? That you forbid champagne at company parties that you ban caviar at company celebrations? That you forbid smoking rooms because you think anything bad? – This will open the first door to inequality. Ladies and gentlemen! The government's originally stated objective was that there should no longer be more salaries than €500 000 in the future. – This goal is an economic nonsense. Who wants to generate less revenue as a state than more? However, I assume that you will succeed in doing so. In the future, for example, top managers will simply be hired from Slovak Group companies. If you are talking about an anti-profit strategy, there will be an “anti-profit government” here. The problem of our capital companies is, in fact, that they make too little profit and not enough. This is precisely why there is a minimum auction for stock companies and GmbHs: because there is too little profit in this country. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The same applies to the standard consumption levy. We can expect cars with Slovak marks to be constantly increasing in the future in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, you will, of course, take the appropriate countermeasures again, and the spiral of deviation and counterpressure will be pushed forward. In this regard, I can refer you to Adam Smith and his work “The Prosperity of the Nations”: "A tax that is inconceivable is a great temptation to deceiving. The bigger this is, the sharper the punishments must be. In contrast to the principles of justice, as they are common to all, the law only causes temptation to punish those whom you suffer." Finally, Adam Smith ends by saying that taxes do not rarely cost more than they bring to the state. High house! Increases in taxes in the high level of taxation Austria is simply and simply the wrong way. The tax State has reached its borders. It's not all politically feasible. We need to reduce taxes in order to increase tax acceptance and thus tax revenue. Those who turn their eyes away from the growing parallel economy are cheating themselves. Those who want to increase the “desire of the nations” in order to talk to Adam Smith must turn away from socialism and turn to the market economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e16947	Mrs Himmelbauer is speaking next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e16968	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I am right for the Greens, even though they have said today that communication has been anything but optimal in recent weeks. Especially for potential young entrepreneurs, who in the summer of 2013 welcomed the reduction of the minimum stock capital for GmbH, the ongoing discussions have led to uncertainties. In particular, the founding years are a financial burden for entrepreneurs, as investment needs to be made and the company built up. At the time, it was also necessary to force entrepreneurship with the GmbH-Reform and to meet young entrepreneurs, but not to favour re-establishment. We have jointly found a good regulation, which continues to make re-foundation attractive and prevents loopholes for re-establishment. We also did not allow a stigmatization of these GmbHs with a minimum stock capital to apply. A title “privileged” would have labeled young entrepreneurs and placed unnecessary obstacles on young entrepreneurs. Mr Themessl of the FPÖ mentioned earlier that the young economy has also expressed criticism of the first version of the tax-amending law. I may first of all point out that the young economy is not like They claimed to be party-political, but they were politically active in the interests of young entrepreneurs. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Lausch: “Sweet”!]] – Yes, but it is, it is part of the Chamber of Commerce. What my colleague Themessl did not mention is that the young economy first expressed itself critically, but subsequently expressed its positive opinion on these changes that had already been mentioned, welcomed them, and the Federal President of the Young Economy even said that the poison teeth had been drawn. We have held long and intensive discussions in recent weeks to reach an acceptable solution for entrepreneurs despite the budgetary objectives. We have put on arguments – and that is successful, the maintenance of the profit-free amount, the safeguarding of the GmbH reform and also the increase of the limit for small-scale invoices. This is living parliamentaryism. In addition, we have taken important steps that will be implemented in this half-year: a labour market package to enable employment and re-entry into the working world; the reduction of additional labour costs, even if this is only a small contribution, but it marks at least one trend change, and also the craftsman bonus. The latter is a very important concern for me, as a representative of a border region in which local craft companies compete with Czech and Slovak companies, but, above all, of course, they are suffering from undeclared work. The pilot project, the one for 1. It will make a significant contribution to the fight against illegal puss on July. I would like to thank Mr Spindelegger and the two State Secretarys for the constructive talks. I would also like to thank Mrs Haubner, who has fought tirelessly for the interests of the domestic economy.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e17020	The next item is the speech by Mr Pock. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e17041	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated members of the government! Dear Seers! As you all know, the present tax-amendment law 2014 does not find the consent of our NEOS delegates. I would therefore like to address a certain point, namely as a transport speaker to the NOVA. The fact is that the government parties have promised not to introduce new mass taxes, already broken right after the new government had started, both in the tax on sparkling wine and in the tax on tobacco, but in particular in the case of nova. NoVA is – and I assume that all Members here in the House know this – a unique European tax. You have to imagine, we are updating here a tax that is not available in any other EU country – yes, you just have to think about it a little bit – a unique tax. Nevertheless, under the cover of ecologisation, the government is now trying to bring € 230 million in additional revenue into the budget – 230 million to stop a budget hole that the government has not known for a long time that this exists. [[Abg. Wenninger: How high is the budget hole up to now?]] – We can talk about it afterwards, dear colleague. However, in order to achieve actual environmental governance effects with the NOVA, more revenue is to be committed at least to the field of energy research in individual transport. I offer you a constructive opportunity! With a share of complaining 0.04 percent of GDP, i.e. approximately € 120 million, and the declared objective of the former Federal Minister for Science and Research Dr. Karlheinz Dägenle, namely to double this proportion to 0.08 percent, thus around € 240 million, there is an urgent need for action anyway. For this reason, I make the following request to Article 12 of the present Government's bill on the tax-amendment law 2014: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e17115	The amendment tabled by Mr Pock is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e17191	Next speaker: Mr Lipitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e17212	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr. State Secretary! My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! The tax-amending law had a principle: to ensure more tax justice, less tax fraud and the closure of tax loopholes. That was, I believe, the main task of this law, and there are some points that we as the Social Democratic Party have always criticised, which are now being corrected. For example, group taxation is limited in such a way that losses from non-Austrian subsidiaries cannot be offset if they have not arisen in countries that have comprehensive grant agreements with Austria. I think that is something quite, very important, because you could deliver numbers and place them in Austria, which is then not entitled. I would just like to mention three of these countries: Russia, India and China are countries with which we do not have comprehensive military aid agreements. Tax privileges for top managers and companies are also deleted. Manager salaries over half a million euros may no longer be deducted as operating expenses. In this connection, I would like to say to one of my previous speakers: I'd rather, we'd rather take in money and promote the gears than support those who have a lot of money, because the children should be worth it to us that we also promote the gears. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Furthermore, as has already been mentioned a few times today, the bank levy will be extended and increased. It has already been said a few times today that those who have caused something should also contribute to bringing the budget back out of the financial crisis. In the same way, I think it is right to extend the solidarity contribution for top earners, which provides for income of over €150 000 a plus of 3.5 percent in tax, over €300 000 a plus of 5 percent and over €500 000 income a plus of 7.5 percent. The profit-free amount has also been mentioned more often today. I think it is a right measure to create this opportunity in the area of housing and to provide that housing bonds can be purchased. I believe that this will also lead to the maintenance and creation of jobs. And the tax advantage for the payment for the abolition of work – if someone has risen earlier – which has been there so far is also deleted, but these payments will be fully taxed in the future. These are mostly big income recipients, managers who just two years earlier get out of their job and then get paid out these two years – I think it's right that these people also pay the full tax rate. The reduction of additional wage costs by €200 million has also been mentioned today. All the more important, from my point of view, is the € 350 million used in the field of labour market policy, because this money will be invested in favour of those people who are over 50 years old and who are affected by unemployment. That is, I think, the right measure to help these people to pave the way for them to get a job and a corresponding payment at the age of 50.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e17255	Next, Mr Podgorschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e17276	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! At the end of the year, the purpose and purpose of this tax-change law is to achieve a zero deficit, a structural zero deficit in 2016. Instead of reducing expenditure by reducing multi-funding, by structural reforms, or by taking up and implementing the Court's proposals, we are going the easy way and trying to get people out of the bag again. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Krainer.]] In the case of these taxes, which are now partially increased or being introduced, the steering effect must be questioned. For example, if one takes the NOVA or the motor insurance tax, then the whole thing has only an ecological cover, because just many of the expensive cars, which are then cheaper at the insurance tax, the simple people cannot afford. And if you look closely at this, you can also see that not the CO2 emissions are taken as the basis, but the PS number, which sometimes brings completely illogical results. For example, a three-way golf with 110 hp 145 g CO2 emissions; the newer seven-man golf that has 150 hp has only 106 g CO2 emissions, but would cost around 238 € per year. There is therefore once again an illogical problem, which leads to the need for information. Even the Austrian Automobile, Motorcycle and Touring Club, that is, the ÖAMTC, has found that in the years 2000 to 2012 the cost of operating a car increased by 20 percent more than the cost of living. However, many people simply depend on the car for daily use, not all can change to public. Many are compulsorily complacent. And that finally has a very strong social component. I therefore welcome the following motion for a resolution by Mr Ddr. Fuchs and Dipl.-Ing. Apply Deimek: The Council of Nations would like to decide at second reading:
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e17313	In order for us not to be wrong, I should like to correct you: It is an amendment.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e17328	Of course! Excuse me, Mr President. [[Quoted print version removed]] There is also a second tax to be questioned, which is the new bank levy. In my federal state, for example, this concerns the medium-sized banks, which now have to deliver more by €65 million. This means that, for the Federal Republic of Austria alone, a credit volume of around one billion euros will be reduced, and this will certainly also cause a credit gap in the future. We need more courage to reform! We need to make the state slimmer. We need to see that people again have more freedom to take on their own responsibility, and we need to create more independence from transfers. The tax-change law does not detach the economy, but more shackles are created.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e17380	The amendment that has just been tabled by Mr Podgorschek is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e17439	The next item is Mrs Jank's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e17460	Mr President. High-level government members! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It is yes, almost to say, an advantage that we are talking about the tax-change law, because if some of them had come out of the opposition to a government responsibility, we would be discussing wealth, inheritance and gift taxes today, we would discuss CO2 taxes on electricity and fossil fuels, we would discuss the removal of the pendulum fee and the kilometres-dependent motorway toll – that is, all the burdens that would impact us significantly. [[Call the FPÖ:And now?]] And no one likes to talk about new taxes, no one is happy about it, but the joy that we have achieved a lot, let us not take it! I would like to highlight this from the point of view of a honourable Member from Vienna. How does the structure look like in Vienna? – A quarter of all Austrian companies operate in Vienna. They employ 800 000 people, and they are members of our youth training. They generate more than 25 percent of our total economic performance in Austria and are innovation and investment engines. How are they structured? – They are mostly small and medium-sized. But what they are not, ladies and gentlemen, They are not pitiful harels who are unable to conduct their business properly, with or without employees, so that they can also dispute their maintenance from their economic activity. They are people who stand for performance and responsibility! Therefore, we are really pleased that it has succeeded in securing two essential things for this group of companies, namely on the one hand the amount of profit and on the other – especially for the boys, for those who are newly entering entrepreneurship – the “GmbH light”. As far as I am concerned, I am less pleased with the fact that we are dealing with group taxation. You have to look at that critically. It is the great danger to see that in particular the site of Vienna loses its high headquarters share of attractiveness. The cornerstones are: ==References== On 1 March 2014, only more specific entities than group members are taken into account. So all who are outside the EU are missing as group members. 82 percent of all companies – I am supposed to close, but it is very important to me to say that – that use group taxation are Austrian companies working here at the site. That is, the old March, that this is mainly for the benefit of non-Austrian companies, is to be removed. We have set this out accordingly some time ago. There's a study on this. Whoever is interested in it, I am happy to make it available to him. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e17494	Next speaker: Mrs. Deputy Doctor Lichtenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e17525	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Jank, what we would be talking about in a government, that is in any case the great issue of legal certainty for businesses and the economy, we are talking about financing models to strengthen the financing of enterprises, and of course we would talk about a non-profit, social tax reform to reduce additional labour costs – because that is exactly what this economic location requires, what businesses can create in order to be able to create jobs. That's our points! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Thus we are at the “GesmbH light”. The critical voices were not to be ignored in the last few weeks – and that is a good thing – especially by those concerned. And accordingly, I mean, it is necessary to act. Within a few months You're changing a legal situation twice! Even if you say: Well, now it's been mitigated anyway!, that's not how we see it. We will therefore make an appropriate request, which I will subsequently submit to maintain the original arrangement for the ‘GesmbH light’. We Greens argue that the parent capital for company founders remains at €10 000 permanently. That's our goal! I therefore propose the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] Simple and simple! Ladies and gentlemen, it was mainly the representatives of the ÖVP who today also expressed their displeasure at the current model of the GesmbH light. You are cordially invited to support this request, because legal certainty is what businesses need. With this I am on a subject that has already been addressed today: the announced, shrouded craftsman bonus. Now you can discuss how useful it is anyway. You can also discuss the effects on this announced model of craftsman bonus – an interesting study from Germany is recommended. At the same time, the first critical comments are to be read in the media, in turn with regard to legal certainty, namely how far the craftsman bonus could also violate the Constitution. [[Abg. Rädler: There you have to read the “Kurier ”! You read the wrong paper!]] Therefore, from my side, the request that we should also examine thoroughly, in order to find a model here, which will actually give a corresponding impetus in the economy, brings relief and is also legally secure. Mr Auer and Mr Groiß have today noted that the bank levy and the consequences will result in fewer loans being granted. They'll be right. We therefore believe that it is long since necessary to allow for appropriate innovative financing models with citizens' participation. We had several rounds and debates with all the political groups in the National Council at the time during the last legislative period. The Chamber of Commerce was invited, the Chamber of Labour was invited, as was the supervision of the financial market. What was the result of five rounds? – A meagre increase of the prospectus obligation from 100 000 to 250 000. Summa summarum: The companies, the representatives of energy transition projects, all agreed that this is not a solution to the problem. We need a new model, and we Greens have already submitted the application. We want the prospectus to be increased to 3 million and the investment per citizen or citizen in a project to be limited to € 20 000. We believe that this is an important contribution to improving the financing situation in companies. The question is: How quickly can this be solved? I therefore address to the State Secretary, who is still here today, the appeal to prepare as quickly as possible in the Ministry of Finance, so that this issue is finally brought to a solution and that sad subject will be put to a good end and that can be secured with it. [[Abg. Auer: is not responsible at all!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e17609	This amendment is also properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e17664	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Vogl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e17685	Mr President. Dear members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! If today it is argued that Austria will no longer be able to employ top managers in the future, because we will eliminate the deductibility of more than €500 000, because we demand a solidarity contribution from top earners, then I can only report from practice that we have no problem in Austria, that we have managers from Germany in our employment groups, but that we have a problem when Austrian professionals and top managers in the group go to Germany. This topic is coming again and again: We have too high an additional wage, no one can afford it anymore! – If you really deal with this issue, you’re thinking it’s not the case with Weitem. We are competitive, we do not have too high pay-side costs, and especially the entrepreneurs among you will say they do not calculate what remains grossly per month, but they calculate what the employee costs. There we are absolutely competitive. We do not have this problem, and we will not further intensify this problem with this one measure. Not yet dealt with – and I think that is a very important and correct step – the increase in the subject matter. I believe that this is necessary in a timely and urgent manner. Anyone who drives a vehicle privately and knows what it costs to receive a vehicle will agree that the increase in the matter is timely and correct. I think that we are making a very important contribution on this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e17724	The next item is the speech by Mr Wurm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e17752	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! High house! At the outset, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As you can see, today I brought a bottle of sparkling wine from Austria – with grief band and parte. [[The speaker points out the sect bottle he had previously placed on the speaker’s mouth, around whose neck black bands and black bordered carats are bound.]] They carry a lot to the grave in Austria: the brand sect, 3,000 winegrowers that produce the basic wine, small and medium-sized enterprises in the following industry and the small luxury, the glass sect. Let's get to the facts! Unfortunately, the numbers you use this law are wrong. They expect €35 million of revenue that will not come. They have the following mental errors: A third of these paragraphs are located in the area of Prosecco and Frizzante, which is not covered by the sparkling wine tax. If we subtract this and then take into account that there will be a decline in sales due to the increase in sales of about 30 to 40 percent, we will end up somewhere at €10 million. If we oppose the administrative burden, you will find that this is a real tax on luggage and that you have achieved a collateral damage for an entire industry for very low revenue. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I really don't see the much famous detachment of the economy! One word on the sect industry, on the sect economy: This is a small but fine area in Austria. As I said, Around 3,000 winegrowers, especially from the wine district and from the Burgenland, produce the basic wine for the production of sects. [[call to the FPÖ.]] Producers of cartons, bottle suppliers, label suppliers and, of course, Austrian wine shops are very difficult to share. I see massive losses in sales and, as a result, the unemployed in this sector – and that where we already have 450 000 unemployed in Austria. What will the sect producers do? – You will try to save costs. You will buy the basic wine in the Czech Republic, the labels in Poland and the glass bottles may be in Germany. Who suffers? – Again the small and medium-sized enterprises in Austria. And that can't be in the inventor's mind! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As I said, Cheers! Ruin for thousands of existences in Austria. And a small social aspect: What a luxury for the general population, the glass of sect, the real rich will not tang! I realize you've been scratching up a few million anywhere in the budget. But that's not going to close the billion hole you've got. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] That's where we have to follow the motto: Poultry's doing shit, too! – in my opinion, the whole law is crap – to hold two opera balls every day in Vienna and to consume very, very much sect, otherwise we will not close the billion hole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e17879	The amendment tabled by Mr Worm is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The amendment reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e17936	Mr President, since we do not drink alcohol here: Don't you want to take the sect with you again? - Please. [[Call the ÖVP:uncharmant!]] We can take him to us somewhere else if you would like. [[Abg. Brosz: Give up a biterl!]] [[Abg. Peter Wurm takes the bottle of sect from the government bank.]] The next item is Mr Zakostelsky. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e17984	Mr President. Mrs and Mr State Secretary! High house! Dear Seers! Unfortunately, the sect is gone now. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz.]] Many details have already been discussed today, but let us say it honestly and openly – I believe that this is also important to citizens: Of course, one of the reasons behind the tax-change law lies in the now widespread recognition that the government budget is to be put in order. We cannot and must not live on a large footing at the expense of our children and grandchildren. This also applies, in addition, to the consumption of our environmental resources, but also to debt in financial terms. Ladies and gentlemen, a first step must, of course, be a balanced budget. The ÖVP and the entire Federal Government are committed to achieving a so-called zero deficit as early as 2016. Of course, the tax-change law is a building block. Austria has committed itself in the Stability and Growth Pact to comply with certain budget criteria, and our 2014 budget – or deficit – is known to be better than that of 2013. Contrary to all the opposition’s unacknowledged calls, the triple-A rating of the Republic was only confirmed in the previous week by the Fitch agency. This is a clear sign at quite stormy times of discussion, as we all know, that the reform and consolidation course that the Austrian Federal Government has taken is internationally recognized and honoured – internationally recognized and honoured, ladies and gentlemen! It is clear for the next few years: We need to maintain this course, but – and I would like to join it here in my view – of course it is particularly important not only to achieve this on the side of the taxes, but also to set up a savings rate on the part of expenditure. A first major step has already been taken by the Federal Ministries with the saving of half a billion per year by reducing the so-called expenditure on discretion. In the next few years, however, we will need even more courage, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to say this here. We will need more courage to reform in order to get better control of the expenditure side, and this is known to be the EIA. Another word on today's draft law: I think we all were not 100% satisfied with the draft law at the beginning of the discussion process. But Parliamentaryism lives on it. We need active Members, an active and intensive discussion phase. We were able to achieve much together – I think of the last financial committee, including the contributions of the opposition – and now have a decision-making law ahead of us. The “GmbH light” facilitates business start-ups. The benefit-free amount shall be retained. We achieve a reduction in the additional wage costs. The small amounts of invoices are chordd. The company tax will be reduced, et cetera, et cetera. Ladies and gentlemen, you have to be so honest on the other hand, of course: This law will cause some pain, but – in turn, this is our common task – this pain will be balanced. It is important, I believe, that such a package, whatever the title, is fairly balanced. That is why I invite you at this point to go this way of economically strong and socially just Austria together with us. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e18042	The next item is the speech by Mr Willi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e18076	Mr President. Dear Members of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen! I begin with a brief comment on Mr Pock's request: We will agree because the objectives are appropriate; we have only our problems with purposeful commitments. But now to these two bottles: [[Call:Doping samples]] [[Rejoicing]] I'm not from the health check, no, I'm from the gas station. This is diesel, and this is gasoline. [[The speaker shows two bottles filled with different liquids.]] [[Unrest in the meeting room.]] Diesel has a higher energy content than petrol, and yet diesel is cheaper because you have chosen a diesel tax which makes diesel cheaper even though the heating value and energy content is higher. Diesel makes us the biggest problems with the pollutants: Fine dust, NOx. [[Abg. New builder: But you have applied for it as a green!]] - We don't have it, Mr. Cot. We have the fine dust capital Graz, we know about the problems in Vienna and Linz – and all this is a product of your tax policy, ladies and gentlemen! This is a completely wrong approach, diesel must be more expensive – you know that as well as I do. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Pock.]] And because you do, we have a rat tail of problems in Austria. 77 percent of the fuel sold in Austria is diesel fuels. 55 percent of the cars sold and driven in Austria are diesel vehicles – with all the problems behind them. This is different in Switzerland. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Nice to meet you.]] In Switzerland as the only European country, Diesel is more expensive than petrol. The result: Only 24 percent of the cars there are diesel vehicles. That is, if you do the right tax policy, you save yourself a lot of environmental costs and have fewer problems. By the way: The EU threatens us with a infringement procedure because we do not comply with the air quality in Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schönegger]] This is your tax policy, ladies and gentlemen of red and black! [[Call the SPÖ:So Georg!]] And in Tyrol, I can report, we have a huge transit, because the trucks come to us so that they can drink cheaply – again with the rat tail of difficulties due to the violation of Kyoto targets. Unfortunately, in this draft law you continue this path consistently. In order not to do so, I invite you to support the green amendment that I am about to read. [[Quoted print version removed]] So: Help us to make diesel more expensive in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e18206	The amendment just tabled by Mr Willi is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] [[Call to the ÖVP: Here you will find the economy!]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e18299	Next speaker: Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e18320	Mr President. I'm surprised. There are still greens with the greens! I remember the election campaign in which the president of the Greens said: Gas and diesel prices are on the ceiling, there is no more space up! – Mr Willi obviously still sees room here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] [[Abg. Brosz: Since you are a consultant!]] I just wanted to point out that in the last five years, the difference in the taxation of diesel and petrol has almost been adjusted by this federal government and we have reduced this difference by 2 or 3 cents. I am quite right, however, that the tax system is a problem if we tax it differently. But this has nothing to do with the NOVA, which has nothing to do with the present law, but is a question of mineral oil tax. I wanted to say something to the law because here was a bit of a debate about taxes being too high anyway and we are now raising taxes. – I can already say that politics is, of course, not a singular event that takes place in one day and then five years, but a process. When we look at what has happened over the past five years, we see that taxes and taxes have been reduced to work – over the course of the legislative period by about €3 billion – and on the other hand, taxes and taxes on assets and capital have been increased or re-established to create more tax justice. It is true that taxes and taxes on work in Austria are far too high and taxes on assets, capital and capital income are relatively low. The last time we did this, we made a little bit of alignment. If you look at the government programme, you see that in these five years, it is also a matter of adjusting it even further, which is, of course, to raise taxes, especially capital taxes, and to reduce taxes and taxes on work. In some cases, taxes and taxes are already being reduced, with the reduction of additional labour costs. We have expected to make a major wage tax reform around 2016, that is to say, to significantly reduce taxes and taxes on work. What are we doing today? – A few excerpts: It is about taxes and taxes on assets and capital, i.e. for this area. Yeah, we're doing a lot of things, but I think that's right. We delete the deductibility for manager salaries almost from €500 000. That means that everything that is more than €500 000 needs to be “chosen” simply to be paid out of tax profits. We already have something similar in tax systematically, for example the luxury tangents in service cars. If someone wants a Ferrari as a service car, it's nice, but it can't be completely removed from operation, but only to a certain area. [[call to the FPÖ.]] In the same way, society can define the relationship between income and performance from €500 000. – We say: At least over €500 000 we would see this link between income and performance under a large question mark, and there we have something similar to the luxury tangents we have tax systematically in other areas. When it comes to group taxation, it is not the case that all those who are now outside the European Union, but in those countries with which there is no double taxation agreement and no enforcement law, companies in the group can no longer be taxed – in good German: where we cannot really call an authority and ask whether the information of the taxpayer is correct or not. If there are no agreements, then that is no longer possible, and I think that is in principle correct. Second: We delete the company's depreciations. And that's good too! We know that this has led many companies to assess what their foreign participation might be worth, and they simply made small when it came to saving taxes in Austria. We're going to put a bar on that one. It never has anyone claimed that only foreign companies of group taxation have an advantage. It was always clear that it can be primarily only Austrian companies that have the advantage of group taxation. I'm telling you quite honestly: Whether Starbucks or IKEA pay only 1 percent taxes in Austria or other Austrian companies, I don't care about it. I am concerned that all companies should make a fair contribution to help finance our society and the costs of this society. We have seen that this was not the case with group taxation. It is therefore good that there are further restrictions and that these companies also make a fair contribution to the financing of society, as any small and every medium-sized company must do anyway. The next area is the Soli contribution, which means that those who deserve particularly well make a higher contribution. The Soli contribution is now being extended; it was almost limited to 2016 and is now being extended, I think it is important. Now to the bank levy: To all those who now declare that we are so angry because we no longer have the derivatives in the tax: You have to look at that, that was very, very easy to deal with. Most banks have been able to take the derivatives off the balance sheet and simply have not paid any tax for it. If, in practice, I realize that a tax will be bypassed and therefore there is no steering effect, but individual institutions can simply reduce their tax, then the question is whether one wants a wrong position or a fair taxation of the system. We have said that we want fair taxation of the system and a sufficient contribution. Therefore, the increase in the bank levy of €90 million per year is good and correct. All those who claim that the taxpayer's mortgage has to pay almost everything, all those who vote against the increase in the bank's levy today must then explain to voters why banks should not pay the bill, but stay with the taxpayer. We say: No, the taxpayer argues, but at the end of the day, the banks are supposed to pay! So, you should be with your voters. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e18378	The last speaker is Mr Magistrate. Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e18399	As Mr Krainer now made the solidarity award for better I asked myself how this is in the case of a 7 000-€ next job and an 8 500-€ half job. Do you still want to fall in there? Not that you have to look for a third side job too! But that is where the Austrians at least know why the first action of this government is in tax increase. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! High house! I would like to make the following request at the beginning: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! This amendment and other amendments tabled by the opposition today show quite clearly: This tax-change law, which we have today, is a Husch-Pfusch law, which – and this also says the analysis of the budget service – is based on non-intelligible or false basis of calculation. This is really the tenor of the budget service. [[Abg. May. Disgusting, they are not false.]] I do not want to hide the fact that there are also good measures in this convoy that you have presented to us today. An example is the removal of the company tax which I applied for three years ago and which gave you a first-class funeral in the financial committee by delay. It is not possible to fight fraud either. Only the basics you expect can't even understand the budget service. What you want from us here and today is nothing but a 5.4 billion € heavy load package for 2014 to 2018 with non-comprehensible figures – mainly tax increase. Most of these are also expected to come from the increase in excise duties: Tobacco tax € 1.17 billion, alcohol tax and sparkling wine tax together € 280 million, motor insurance tax € 1.12 billion, and then still € 230 million standard consumption tax. There are already over 120,000 signatures of the Austrians against the motor insurance tax alone, and more will be done every hour. That's what's happening to consumers. The other part of the burden affects small and medium-sized enterprises. Since SPÖ and ÖVP are in the government, the Austrians, who have worked and created themselves with labor at home and house, are only penalized with taxes. Those who retire will be sent to a training course 35 days before, and those who sit in the port will receive 2.5 percent increase in wages. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, you should spend half of your salary on the government bank and your colleagues who are not here today, because this is not worth your work. It's a shame that Austria is being driven to the wall in this way!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e18480	The amendment tabled by the honourable Member is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e18568	No one has made any mention of this. I therefore conclude this debate. As amendments have been tabled on a regular basis by the end of the debate until the last speaker, which must first be incorporated into the Croquis, and in order not to produce a vote error, I shall refer the vote to both items on the agenda at the end of the agenda. [[20:05:43]] 4. Point Report of the Scientific Committee on the Government Template (23D.B._Other Organiser Agreement in accordance with Art. 15a B-VG between the federal government and the state of Upper Austria on the establishment and operation of a medical faculty and the establishment of the study of human medicine at the University of Linz (34 d.b.) 5. Point Report and request of the Scientific Committee on a Federal Law amending the University Law 2002 (35 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e18612	We therefore come to points 4 and 5 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. President. — The debate is closed. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e18639	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Mr. Minister! Dear spectators! The establishment of a medical study at the University of Linz was very controversial from the outset and is rejected by the entire sector for various reasons. [[Call at the ÖVP:From the green sector!]] A very central point to be made in this debate is that the Faculty of Medicine Linz is not a strategic necessity arising from the needs of the Austrian university landscape. Rather, this is a wish of a federal country rather than a whole strategy, which is actually to be drawn up with the higher education plan, in agreement with the whole sector. The central argument put forward for the Faculty of Medicine is the shortage of doctors, which must be pointed out that in Austria we have the highest medical density of all 27 EU countries, namely 468 doctors per 100 000 inhabitants. The EU section is 330. However, there is probably a problem with the trained doctors in Austria. A quarter of all graduates leave because the framework conditions for young people in Austria are not attractive enough. These are primarily not the Germans who study with us, but also Austrian students. This concerns mainly regional locations. For example, this is about the whole discussion about the gymnastics, about the specialist training. It is also about salary issues. In Germany, doctors with the same training earn up to a quarter more when they enter the profession. This decision has been taken under certain conditions, under promises to the University Conference. Today, I have gladly read in an APA announcement that you, Minister Mitterlehner, have pledged that you want to strengthen the role of the University Conference in the future. The University Conference has agreed to the establishment of this Faculty of Medicine under certain conditions, of which only one is yet fulfilled, namely the one that is the easiest to create: the establishment of a founding committee. The introduction of bodies and working groups is generally much easier than the creation of concrete framework conditions. That's the only demand that's fulfilled. All the others are unfulfilled. Other requirements include the integration of the Faculty of Medicine into an overall strategy, in the higher education plan. This has not been done. A second requirement was the preparation and decision of a new development and financing plan for technical colleges. This should have been done in 2013. There is no one to date, nor is there any negotiation yet. This should have been decided a long time ago. What is missing is an actual scientific discussion of the question: What are the consequences of the new places of study in Linz on the medical rate? Since 2005, we have always had an extension of this emergency solution, and the overall solution to this problem, namely clarification at European level, has still not been addressed. What is missing is a concrete programme of measures to attract the medical profession, because it is clear: If we train more doctors, which is to be welcomed in principle, but which nevertheless migrate to a quarter, it does not make any use of us to train more doctors. Another point was the suspension of the settlement costs of the students by the forced housing change. It is true that this study is completed for the first part in Graz and then goes back to Linz. This is also a rather strange construction. One last point, which is also not fulfilled, is the transparent re-regulation of clinical additional burden. It is said by Linzer Seit that there is a great invention, the Linz model. But this is based on the idea of a real prize that all the other medical universities have already tried and which has proved to be impossible to carry out. Mr Mitterlehner, I think it is welcome that you announce that universities should receive the budgetary resources they need to cover the cost increases. However, one has to say that this quick shot with the Medical Faculty in Linz guarantees Linzers the money, they already have their budget in dry cloths. The remaining universities must wait for it to hope that what you are now proclaiming will actually occur. This is not an equal treatment in the sector. As has already been pointed out in advance and in the context of the discussions, most of the green club will vote against this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e18677	The next item is Mr Dr. Däderle's report. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e18698	Mr President. Minister! High house! There are two motives of the state of Upper Austria and the city of Linz why one wants to build this Faculty of Medicine in Linz. A motive is explicit, namely the concern for future medical care in Upper Austria and beyond. There is a medical need study that I did as a minister together with the Ministry of Health and the Chamber of Doctors at the time. This study has shown in 2012 that there could indeed be a medical defect around 2030, assuming certain conditions, although it is correct that Austria has one of the highest medical densities in Europe. It is also true that we have a lot of graduates in relation to the population of our country. It's clear: With more graduates you will not solve the problem of medical care. The much more important measure is to attract the post-promotional medical education and also the medical profession and the various locations where the doctors practice their profession. This is a much more important process that can be set in motion. The second motive, which is more implicit, is the effort of Upper Austria – and this effort has been evident for decades now – to strengthen and expand the tertiary sector in this country. Upper Austria is a country that depends a little on the traditional locations in Austria. Against this effort we are constantly being led into the field that we need structural adjustment, that we should not divide our tertiary locations, that the cake, which is not large anyway, is divided into even more small pieces and that the entire tertiary sector in Austria suffers. This criticism can be opposed to the fact that if one strengthens a federal country and its tertiary sector and does not go at the expense of other locations, it means overall strengthening this sector in Austria. If this strengthening is integrated into an overall strategy and also benefits all other locations and the sector as a whole, it can be a positive measure. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's right!]] There are other pro-arguments for a Faculty of Medicine in Linz, and these arguments are stronger for me than the above-mentioned criticism points. An important pro-argument is that in Austria we have about 10,000 applicants for study places in medicine, but only 1,500 places. In the UG we have to expand these places to 2,000. That means we have to create more places – even in the sense of the students who demand these places in very large numbers. So if a location provides more places, the pressure on these places and also pressure on the young people who are trying to find these places will be reduced. If a federal state and a city like Linz are still heavily involved in the construction of these places, this is a very positive thing. Another very strong pro-argument, I believe, is that medical research institutions generally strengthen tertiary sites. Medical research institutions in Austria are very research-strong, publication strong, third-party strong, high-quality. Johannes Kepler University will strengthen a medical faculty in Linz. This is a very important concern to me. Above all, synergies are created here in several ways, it is cooperated. It is co-operating within the university. This is a faculty that will operate within the Johannes Kepler University. It is a faculty that, together with the Medical University of Graz, begins its work. It is therefore, in several respects, a case in point for successful cooperation, for something that we in Austria urgently need. We must strengthen the tertiary sector with united forces, viribus unitis. I will pay very close attention to this and always raise my voice if the overall strategy, which has been promised and also adopted twice in the Council of Ministers, does not strengthen the tertiary sector that needs to take place in this context. This is a very important goal that we are pursuing here. In my opinion, however, it is also important that a federal country with great commitment seeks to strengthen the tertiary sector in its sphere of influence. That is highly worthy. This is something that other federal states can take as an example. This great commitment of Upper Austria is appreciated. That is why, while weighing all the arguments, I am quite for this Faculty of Medicine. I think it strengthens Johannes Kepler University, it strengthens the tertiary location in Upper Austria and thus also in Austria as a whole.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e18735	Next speaker: Mr Ertlschweiger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e18756	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Mr. Minister! For me, it is not understandable why head of state Josef Pühringer and the University of Medicine Linz are allowed to set a monument in Upper Austria at the expense of taxpayers. [[Call the ÖVP: Such a fool!]] The Austrian Science Council – we have already heard it before – is still very critical of a realization. The main argument – that the MedUni Linz is best addressed to the medical shortage in Upper Austria – is also on undulating legs. There is still no concrete cost to the cooperation partner, MedUni Graz. In Graz, the students complete the preclinical clinic, which will take at least two years. The Council of Science still lacks concrete planned measures to prevent graduates from moving to curative areas of medicine or abroad. Ladies and gentlemen, you see, there are questions about questions that overestimate this project. The pro-argument that can be addressed with an additional medical union of the medical defect is aimed at emptiness for me. It cannot be assumed that every student who will do his doctor in Linz will remain at the disposal of the country of Upper Austria as a physician. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's perfectly true!]] Only with the creation of additional training places, which the former Minister of Education has already said, will it not be possible to resolve the medical shortage at all. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! But what you can expect is that many German students in particular will benefit from this training offer from the Medical University of Linz. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Are the Germans now the problem at once?]] I'm just giving it to remember that we already have to fight with German students. We have a flood and still do not have a sustainable strategy to deal with these students. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: It is also studying Austrians in Germany!]] So reality will probably look like the students in Austria will acquire an excellent education and return to their home country after they have graduated. That's what I'm asking myself: Where is the advantage for the Austrian population paying for this excellent training? [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] If we want more doctors to stay in Austria or settle in rural regions, we need to change the conditions. This has already been mentioned today. My access to the whole subject is therefore: We do not build another medical union for sintering money, which is flooded by German students, but we are strengthening our existing locations! Let us strengthen our medical sites Vienna, Graz, Innsbruck as well as the Paracelsus University of Salzburg and we will really further expand these sites to real top locations of innovation and research! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] That's exactly what Austria needs: not a syndicated monument to tax payment costs for the head of state, but attractive research opportunities and innovation and the associated strengthening of the economic location! [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: But Upper Austria is innovative!]] quality before quantity, my very much revered Ladies and gentlemen! – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e18868	Next is Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e18889	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The discussion – initially about a medical university, then about a medical faculty in Linz – has accompanied us here in the house over the past few years. It has gone across all parties, has been assessed differently in all parties. There have been advocates in all parties who tend to have come from Upper Austria rather than Upper Austria, there have been skeptics in all parties that tend to have not come from Upper Austria. In recent months, a solution to this question has been identified – a question which has never been a fundamentally ideological-political one that has been assessed differently in all parties, a question that was a pragmatic, a question of the budget available and the use of resources of the existing budget. Mr Davignon, Member of the Commission. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. Finally, 300 additional training places are now being created in the study of human medicine, a study that is very much in demand in Austria – much more requested than available places. Especially since there have been access restrictions in this study – at the same time as the introduction of the access restrictions, the number of study places has been drastically reduced at the time – we drag a larger backpack of demand in this study year after year. In this respect, it is welcome that additional places of study in Austria, in this case in Linz, will be created in order to ensure that medical needs are met in Upper Austria as well. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] It seems to me that essential conditions which have always played a role in the debate have been fulfilled. One of the most essential is the question of budgetary resources. It is ensured that additional money will be used for these additional training places and that this will not be at the expense of the other universities, nor will it be the responsibility of the expansion of higher education places which we want to do in the next few years. [[Abg. Steinbichler: Who pays...?]] A second important point was concern about the medical rate. – Since the Ministry – I suppose the Minister will do this more thoroughly afterwards – the view that it is precisely efforts to create additional training places that will be a step towards securing this quota in the EU. A discussion that has accompanied us in this House for many years will therefore lead to a good end today.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e18932	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e18953	Mr President. Minister! The project seems a bit funny to me, because of it alone: If Mrs Maurer and I, who come from two very different political directions, have the same opinion to 100 percent, then there is something that cannot really be voted on. [[Call the Greens: That's right!]] [[Abg. Dr. Karlsböck:... quite different!]] – Well, but we two really come from very different political directions. Do you believe this, Mr. Collegue? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz.]] The main argument that has always been put forward, Mr Maurer has already said, is the medical shortage that is supposed to exist in Austria – we have already heard that – and that is not the case. As Mr Maurer has already said, the last ÖBIG study in 2012 clearly showed that we have the highest medical density in Europe. The question is, of course, exciting, why we obviously need another medical faculty. Even if we believe that we have too few doctors in Austria, we should ask ourselves why. This is mainly because the virgins migrate from Austria – almost a quarter – and there is the question: Why are they doing that? This is due, among other things, to the fact that the training opportunities for gymnasticians in Austria are simply bad compared to our German-speaking neighbours and therefore logically migrate there. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Yes, that's right! You're right! But one doesn't rule out the other!]] That is to say, we should take appropriate measures instead of somehow making a new medical faculty. The argument that with the medical faculty in Linz the doctors stay in the region is also somehow attracted to the hair. So I don't know any study that tells us that and clearly proves that you will stay in the region. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: But that has consequences!]] [[Abg. Wöginger: This is an attractive federal country!]] Much more important, from my point of view, is that instead of bringing this argument of non-existent medical shortage, one simply asks whether the concept of medical faculty in Linz is useful under the premise of the quality of teaching and research. And there may be questions as to whether at this university location, namely in Linz, there is already teaching and research in the field of life sciences or medical areas, and these can serve as the basis for this medical faculty, and on this the concept of MedUni Linz is not actually involved. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: That's not true!]] What is also particularly exciting is the matter with the clinical extra burden. This is what everyone knows about university clinics. This is a huge problem, among other things, in Vienna at the AKH, and this Linz model is being proposed, which is not exactly executed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] The quota system has also been referred to; I think the Minister has already tried to explain it. It may be because of my misunderstanding, but I still haven't heard it. I hope that in some way this will nevertheless lead to a meaningful solution – but you will certainly do it again. But what is particularly annoying about me is that we have here x different opinions from various expert bodies, including the opinion of the Council of Science, which is also a consultative body of Parliament, in which x things have been cited, why you have to see this critically, and I think they have been completely ignored. In the same way, the unanimous decision of the University Conference, which also questioned many things and called for an overall strategy, was also ignored. I wonder why we have these expert bodies at all if what they tell us is not taken seriously. What's also very exciting – that's the last point: There is in fact no completed study plan at the University of Linz. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: That's not true!]] I said last week in a press release, then the ÖH of the University of Linz called me and said: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! – Then they are back again and have said: Yeah, well, in Linz, but it's not finished with Graz. – So I’m a little hard to agree to in something where the University of Linz obviously doesn’t really know. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: This has been decided!]] And what is particularly annoying about me and why it is particularly difficult to agree to this project – which is why we will not do so – is that it is another prestige project of a country or of a head of state. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Prince.]] Where we used to build triumph sheets, we are now building up medical faculties. That is something that is not evidence-based policy that we have committed to NEOS, and so we will not agree with it.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e19098	Mr Karlsböck was next mentioned. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e19119	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Before I go into the actual item on the agenda, I would like to comment very briefly on the Scientific Committee as such. It has been shown that the agenda items dealt with there were enough. It was a very consensual and committed mood there, however, due to the abundance of the matter to be treated, it was a mistake to abolish the Ministry of Science, even if, of course, I quite agree with the Minister to lead it in a truly committed way. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] On the actual agenda item: From a liberal point of view, it is a very positive matter that the Faculty of Medicine in Linz is finally coming. As has already been said, we have tabled applications several times during the last period, and I believe that the colleague has also worked out one in committee: Since 1890, there has been a discussion whether or not a university of medical sciences should come to Linz. Now this is finally being created, and we are very happy about that. But why? It is also strongly disputed here about the motives. – I believe – and not only I believe it – that the population sees that we are focusing on an blatant medical shortage, and this blatant lack of doctors is currently not only statistically seen and noticed, but also felt by people outside the regions. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Right! ...long waiting time at the ophthalmologist!]] It is a subjective one, like an objective one, and therefore it is only right and reasonable to increase the supply of medical training and to set up a wider regionally. Of course, we will not get under control of the situation of the medical shortage in Austria alone. As was said by a previous speaker: One of the major causes is the poor conditions that exist today in the medical profession, i.e. the long working hours in hospitals, the bureaucratic overboarding of the whole matter, and new life plans also exist among physicians. Today, no one is ready to go to the region and be there for just 24 hours. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] It's all changed. Of course, all of this has to be changed, but now we cannot bow to the scientific committee alone. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But one thing I have to say now: Access to higher education in Austria is, of course, a real problem for our young people. The unabated storm of foreign students, especially German students, goes at the expense of our Austrian students. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: The fact that you have something against the German students is something new to me!]] And, of course, we have often introduced this, Minister, that the country of origin principle should be introduced. It is always argued that this is not happening in the EU. This argument is not understandable to me, because in other areas the principle applies, for example, in the field of the Services Directive. There we also have some kind of country of origin. The argument that the medical project in Linz is a prestige project cannot be applied in this way. [[Abg. Wögerer: Bravo!]] In my opinion, this is a very honest matter. One makes a university, which is financed by the federal government, a state university at the federal level, and declares this at the first time; second, there are many other universities that call themselves private universities. This is basically nothing else, that is, national universities. There is hardly any real private facilities in Austria. Then I have to say one more thing: It is, as has been said, an honest solution, and in Linz there is a very high professional competence in many areas. I am only the only example to remind you that four or five years ago a world sensation in the children's clinic was successful there. There a heart valve of an unborn child was operated; the child would not have been viable. Today, this method was invented in Linz, which was used in Linz for the first time worldwide, and Linz was a pilgrim center for this very subject. Of course, one should also take into account the high value added, which is the result, and the return on the way. This is a fact, and that is why we are pleased that, after as long a time as it has been said, 1890 is in space, this project can be realized. We liberals will agree here.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e19205	Mr Mitterlehner, Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, was next mentioned. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e19226	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We have just heard from the previous speaker, the discussion about the establishment of a medical university, now specifically the Faculty of Medicine in Linz, has actually been conducted for many years. What we have before us today is de facto the formal concreteization of the corresponding steps at the federal level, through a 15a agreement between the Federal Government and the Upper Austria, which also creates the formal basis for the establishment of a Faculty of Medicine in Linz. It regulates the establishment of the study under the financial participation of the country of Upper Austria, including the regulation of the number of students and a time-consuming path. The regulation of costs is also clearly defined, a transparent regulation is laid down with regard to the clinical additional burden, and it also includes clarification as regards cooperation and the establishment of the new study in cooperation with the Medical University of Graz. As far as the key data of the project is concerned, the faculty should gradually grow to a total of 1,800 students by 2028, with a maximum of 300 beginners per year. The start is made with 60 beginners, the annual increase is up to 60. It is also a cooperation with the Medical University of Graz. 120 beginners are expected to complete the first two years of their studies at MedUni Graz, and 180 are scheduled to start in Linz. The Sezierkurs are to take place for all 300 beginners per year in Graz, in order to also use the expensive infrastructure together. – This is what is provided for in the framework. As far as the debate is concerned, it has already been mentioned in part. There are several questions. The one question is: Is an Article 15a agreement appropriate to provide and implement such a thing? – I think it is very well and well suited. We have two examples: the Danube University of Krems and the IST in Maria Gugging. In the context of Article 15a agreements, it has been said that there is a clear development as regards participation, especially in the country of Lower Austria, in terms of space, infrastructure and operation, and in particular the allocation of costs. That is, the budget for the Federation is clear and manageable. The same is also foreseen: We have a clear regulation as to the amount of federal costs. The costs for the Faculty of Medicine in Linz amount to a total of € 58.2 million during this legislative period. These costs already include the total current clinical additional burden and the additional costs relating to the preclinical agreement with MedUni Graz. Now comes a crucial point, which has been raised several times as a concern, namely: Is something taken away by this process of other universities in development? - That's not the case. We have explained that, from the appropriate resources of the Ministry of Finance – Maria Fekter has prepared this – that this comes from these reserves, which are provided in addition, so there is no impairment and disadvantage of others. In this context, Mrs Maurer argued that Linz is, as it were, assigned here and not others. - You can see that. Of course you can also see it exactly the other way around: If Linz is clarified, no fear is justified that something will be taken by the others, because it will simply have an objective basis for covering the others. So I see the argument only positive and not negative. That's very important. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Whatever we have and what has been addressed several times is the clinical additional burden. – That sounds as if everything else is clearly and transparently regulated, that is not the case – I noticed it just in the first few months – neither in Vienna nor in Innsbruck nor in Graz. But this is not an accusation to the institutions involved, but it has a history of development. [[Call to the Greens: Genau!]] Now we have a clear explanation that there is also a corresponding cost calculation, and an orientation that is separated as regards the construction and personnel costs. There are, of course, better control options. It may then be possible to apply this to other countries and other medical universities. In any case, I think that is very positive. What has not yet been addressed, and that is why the accusation – we have already cleared it out in the Scientific Committee – is that there would be no study plan there and no more. That's just wrong. He's done, he's already been discussed there and decided. And what is interesting from my point of view is that we are going a new way with it after the Bologna structure. That is to say, we have there exactly the division with Bachelor and Master, i.e. three years Bachelor and three years Master, and that is simply a structure that is also contemporary. This is also positive from my point of view. As far as research is concerned, I would like to follow up on what Mr Karlheinz Dägenle said, namely: Health care research, clinical age research. These are areas that are new, in which no one is taken away and which then simply strengthen the tertiary sector in Linz as a whole and thus also the research sector and thus also reflect what Linz is like: one of the strongest industrial sites, which, of course, can also develop both areas in the direction of a win-win situation in combination with a medical faculty. The perhaps most controversial question is and was: Do we need to do that in the field of medical care? That's where I have to tell you, I don't quite understand. There have been several studies, and in the final effect all these studies show that we will have a corresponding demand potential in the future. Whether it is 2 000 or 7 000, I do not think it is the crucial point. The crucial point is that these doctors, who are being trained, remain to a large extent in rural areas. And, of course, it is necessary that we also make an attraction, which is also foreseen. This is about the medical training, about attractive offers for established doctors. There we are in conversation with the Minister of Health and also with the country. Of course, this must also be appropriate and must be presented. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Community practices!]] As far as the question of the quota is concerned, I am surprised that Mr Ertlschweiger is now asking this for the third time, why and why. If I assume that nothing changes in the basic system and that some of the students and later graduates are going back to Bavaria or any other country, then this more or less given and accepted classification is a reason for making the EU plausible: If I make my own efforts and get rid of many, that is a positive argument and not a negative one. That's why I don't understand your connection. It's actually logical. We have also reported it to the EU, and the EU has not objected in the form, which at EU level does not mean everything. But I am very optimistic that we can therefore also clarify this question of quotas. Several have raised these concerns which the Science Council, the University Conference or anyone who has or should have spoken. Among other things, the quality has been addressed. It is precisely this issue of quality that has been taken into account in the orientation of the founding Convention. There are six members of recognized, internationally experienced experts. Therefore, you can be sure that this quality in this area in Linz will also be safeguarded accordingly. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, from my point of view, it is largely clear what is present and what is necessary for the future. The process is structured with it. We probably have the corresponding debate in the Bundesratsplenum on Wednesday, if I may take this for granted, if that is decided today. Then a pre-registration is made from 1. There's nothing left to do with it. Then it's probably going to be a recording test on 4. July 2014 and the start of the new study or institution in Graz with the further continuation in Linz will take place from autumn 2014. Ladies and gentlemen, let me conclude. I think it's very well prepared, it's much debated, but one thing is clear: Such a project has not only opportunities, but of course also risks. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Exactly!]] It is up to us, however, to minimize the risks and increase the chances of them all. In my opinion, everything is prepared for this. That is why I see a positive future for this project.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e19303	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Lichtenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e19324	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If one continued the line of reasoning of colleague Ertlschweiger, namely the existing, planned resources for the Faculty of Medicine in Upper Austria at the JKU, and so to speak, to be distributed at the existing locations, namely in Graz, Innsbruck and Vienna, then the JKU would not have been built in this form in 1966. [[Call to the ÖVP: “Spint” is good!]] Then these resources would have stayed there at the existing locations, and these are still old, traditional: the University of Vienna, founding date 1365; the Karl-Franzens-Universität Graz, founding date: 1585; the University of Innsbruck, founding date: 1669. That would have been a bad path! It's good, the JKU is an excellent university. It is an important impulse center for science, economics and society in Upper Austria. With the Faculty of Social and Economics, with the Faculty of Law and with the Faculty of Science and Technology, this university has been well equipped so far, and the establishment of the Faculty of Medicine is now certainly a great enrichment. We have 18 900 students at the JKU in the study year 2013/2014, last year we had 1,600 degrees. I think that speaks for itself. The JKU is distinguished from excellent research and, of course, international teaching. That's all that speaks for it. Dear colleagues Scherak and Ertlschweiger, the story addressed with prestige object and monument sets is totally nonsense! [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber as well as representatives of the ÖVP.]] I absolutely want to reject it in this form. As a federal has worked hard on it, there was a long breath. Now it's ready, and that's good. There are other facts about this too. It is a remarkable hospital landscape with about 110 habilitated doctors. There is an unprecedented start-up financing by the country Upper Austria and by the city of Linz, and that is a good thing. They invest in € 225 million by the year 2042. Furthermore, there is an innovative teaching concept with the University of Graz and two very important research fields in cooperation with the existing research fields of the JKU, namely in the fields of care research and clinical age research. We think that is absolutely central. Of course, it is also important to have additional training places. And I am now quite clear on the question of whether the need for additional doctors can be met: There will be a lot of other improvements in the framework conditions, and this has also been done today by my colleague, Mrs Tegenle. It's got to be worked on. But there is a chance here to improve security of supply structurally, and I think that is important and good. In addition, in Upper Austria, we have 228 companies that work together in the health cluster, which have 37,000 employees and can have a research rate of 6.1 percent. Here too, this Faculty of Medicine will provide an important impulse to make an important contribution. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr Pirklhuber as well as representatives of FPÖ, SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The debate in the Scientific Committee showed: There are various concerns, there are several questions. I can say: Various questions that have been asked today can be answered well and comprehensively with the concept and project description Creation of a Faculty of Medicine at the JKU, including the question of the curriculum. [[Calls and calls between Green MEPs and FPÖ.]] It's easy to get further information. Otherwise, of course, it is also about consistently accompanying this implementation now. I am confident and trust that it will work well in this form. The Faculty of Medicine at the JKU in Linz will make an important contribution to strengthening the knowledge and economic location of Upper Austria. In addition, I believe that the location in Upper Austria and the JKU total as well as the hospital landscape provide the conditions for this project to an excellent extent and the project can be implemented well and successfully. In this sense, the Upper Austrian representatives of the Green Parliament Club will support the establishment of a Faculty of Medicine at Johannes Kepler University in Linz today and will also contribute to this bill in this form.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e19378	Next, Mr. Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e19399	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) As the Upper Austrian Member of Parliament, I am of course particularly pleased to speak today about the Article 15a agreement between the Federal Government and the Federal Republic of Austria in order to deal with the joint financing and establishment and operation of the Faculty of Medicine. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Is this a country day meeting now?- Oh, my God!]] [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] I am, of course, glad that there is unity, especially among the Upper Austrian Members, and I am particularly pleased, of course, that the liberals and the Green Members from Upper Austria agree with this agreement. [[Interlocutory calls from MEPs Neubauer and Podgorschek.]] We all know the problems and all of us are invited to address them with all the means available to us. The lack of doctors in hospitals, but also the lack of established doctors and specialists is obvious. This is also confirmed by the medical director of the Hospital of Merciful Sisters in Ried, my district capital, university professor Dr. Friedrich Renner. In an interview with the “Rieder Volkszeitung” – I quote – he says: ‘The lack of doctors and young people in peripheral hospitals is felt ().’ This, of course, is particularly hard for a region with low population density. Another step in this direction is to keep these graduates in the region, of course. To this end, Minister of Science Mitterlehner has already announced that, together with Minister of Health, Stöger, he will link a comprehensive package to improve the soil liability of trained physicians. Doubts and fears that something is taken away by the establishment of the Linz Medical Faculty other university sites is a typical Austrian phenomenon that is unfounded. There is a clear agreement that the costs incurred by the Federal Government by 2017 amount to more than €35 million from special funding from the Ministry of Finance. In addition, the faculty is supported from the funds of the city of Linz and Upper Austria. The latter represents a large part of the buildings. As of next year of study, the first 60 students will start. In this context, I welcome the preparatory courses of the there medical director for the admission examination at the Rieder Hospital. After Vienna, Upper Austria is the most important economic location and a thriving university location. A special study focus in Linz in the field of clinical age research and preventive research is future topics, bringing businesses and thus new jobs. Our innovative, capital-intensive business location Upper Austria therefore needs a medical faculty in Linz to guarantee a comprehensive medical care for people in our federal state. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. New builder.]] It's not a prestige object, it's a necessity. Let us therefore take the first important step today, and this together!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e19452	The next item is the speech by Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e19481	Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, ten years ago you could have bought it. We have the free choice. I can also justify that. Mr President. Mr. Minister! Appreciate viewers on the televisions! Ladies and gentlemen. If my previous speakers argued that this medical university would increase medical security – with the faculty, apologies, Mr Minister – then there is a very practical proposal: [[Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner: With the Faculty!]] Then, of course, we need to strengthen the incentives for the practical doctors. The fact is that over the next ten years, 50 percent of the established doctors will retire. If there is a false argument and said that something would change with this MedUni, I would refer to what Mr Ertlschweiger has already said: Let's strengthen the four existing locations! Upper Austria is an excellent location and offers great opportunities in many other variants, in many other areas. Let's strengthen them there! But cost efficiency may be allowed. I believe that the criticism of the Federal Court of Auditors must be taken seriously in stressed budgetary situations, and the concerns expressed by the public must also be expressed in the “Kronen Zeitung” of the 13th century. In February, with regard to the high costs, account was taken of this. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The following costs are mentioned: For the covenant: € 55 million and € 58 million respectively. And the costs for the country and the communities – now it comes, dear colleagues and colleagues from the ÖVP! – amounting to € 224 million. That's not free. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] In this context, I may mention a German study on student mobility. The subject has been raised. Where do the students come from, Mrs. Lichtenecker? If every year there are 1,600 leavers, why do we have a medical shortage? Then you have to commit them, then we make a MedUni mandatory for agricultural doctors. [[Prolonged calls to the Greens.]] No, no movements, and now not Upper Austria! Talk to your own club! On these press releases, ladies and gentlemen, in which you submit to us in Upper Austria, I mean: Then you have to sit down in the country day, you shouldn't play federal politics here. But if you want to play the Landeshütter, you must stay in the country Upper Austria or in the Federal Council, in the Landeskammer. That would also be a proposal for relaxation. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] This is the problem of the policy of this federal government. All the proposals that have been put forward by us in the election campaign are rejected. Let's stick to a health issue! There would be a possible combination of social insurance, which could save such a thick bacon! This would allow health professionals to do something for medical safety, which is why we are skeptical and currently agreeing not to MedUni in this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e19542	The next item is the speech by Mr Buchmayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e19564	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Before the whole thing comes to a rural debate, I would like to say that we are in Parliament and that a university is certainly federal. If, after I guessed correctly, a medical faculty in Austria has been established again for more than 340 years, then a lot of time has passed, and I think that already has good reasons. If you look at the geographical situation in Austria alone, Linz is certainly a very good location. This becomes even more plausible when I use the following argument: If, in ten to 15 years, the 50 percent of doctors go to retirement, there is a huge need to catch up in the medical sector, so that an additional university is well justified. We have a lot of problems in hospitals – not only in Upper Austria, I think all over Austria – to occupy certified gyms at all. Doctors often work 32 hours, in exceptional cases up to 49 hours. The theme of working time will play a far greater role in the life planning of doctors. However, one will not be able to solve these problems with a medical union. Linz, however, is very skillful with the focus in age medicine and public health. The Medical University of Linz will also, with possible collaborations at the location of the Kepler University, for example in the information technology sector with Hagenberg with certainty – and I am sure that in the next few years, many new medical and technical products will be stopped at the dynamic that exists in an industrial city. I think that's a very good start. I wish the Medical University in Linz all the best. I think maybe in ten years we'll all say together: It was a good decision for Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e19606	Next, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek in word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e19627	Mr President. Federal Minister! In replication of Mr Hofinger, who has not been in this House for so long, a brief historical demolition, but he is well aware that the positive decision is worth mentioning today: In October 1890, Liberte Carl Beurle made the first application for the Medical University under the motto “Good Thing Needs Village”. At that time he was with a forerunner of the Freedom Party. I would also like to mention that in April 2005 it was the colleague Neubauer, who made a request in the municipal council of the city of Linz for the establishment of a medical university or faculty. At the time, the voting borders mentioned by Mrs Kuntzl also existed between the parties, so that the liberals and socialists accepted, however, ÖVP and Greens rejected. It was then only until September 2006 until a unanimous request was accepted in the Upper Austrian Landtag. [[President Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).]] Well, what really are the benefits – I don't want to say now, a medical university, but I'm going to do it precisely – a medical faculty? This is first the absolute focus of this faculty on science and research. Only one example of Linzer's market-oriented work at the JKU: For decades it has been common to talk about mechatronics, but at JKU there has been the first course of study to do so. I remember: It was some of the assistants I knew from the TU Vienna, which I then, as collaborators in the VAI knew and had who were then the first professors and assistants for mechatronics at the JKU. This makes me sure that this Faculty of Medicine will also work in this direction. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Another is the safe interaction with the health professions. Even Beurle meant in his application that a medical defect was not corrected by second-class schools. – And in the health professions we have exactly that: We overacadicate simple, well-trained professions. If we create it, on the one hand, medical training, but on the other hand a proper, target-oriented, favourable training for health professionals, then this will still support the whole. Thirdly, this is about additional gymnastics, where physicians are supposed to go and want to go to the country. This will continue to support the whole thing. This is not, as so often pointed out, a prestigious object. In my opinion, prestigious objects are buildings without life, which are built, for example, for mayors or national leaders and which are then at best monuments. This will certainly not be the case at the university. If you look at a cost comparison with the other medical universities, namely for the various individual sectors, for the medical-clinical area, you have to say: This will be the most economical university, the most economical faculty we have. Leo Steinbichler, you probably understand more about the piglets and the cattle - but you don't understand that much from the Medical University. Maybe look at the numbers again, then you will be calmed down and perhaps also be able to vote!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e19698	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Fekter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e19719	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Today's vote, which is a forward-looking expansion of the JKU site, with significant own resources from Upper Austria. Yes, right, country, city and communities contribute to this. There has been a great deal of discussion about the places of study and the training for medical care. Personally, however, the concept was also important to me that a medical cluster in Upper Austria should be further developed, and these are the jobs of tomorrow. This project is exemplary in two areas: First of all, cooperation with other universities, especially Graz. It wasn't always like that. Thanks to the former Minister of Science, he made this cooperation possible among universities by means of a new law in the previous year. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. New builder.]] The second area is cooperation within the JKU with the technical faculty. [[Inter-call at the Stronach team.]] These are not peanuts, quite the opposite: In medicine mechatronics – as I am connected to my previous speakers – a large part is already being researched in medical products, in cooperation with third countries, which come from the successful Upper Austrian companies that have developed an excellent reputation worldwide in medical technology; but also in biophysics, such as biodiagnostics and sensors, biological transport systems, bionanostructures, I do not want to carry this out further. In this brochure, which has been prepared by the University, you can read these cooperation models with other faculties in detail. [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] No more ivory-legged tower, no more we are-we-Philosophy, but opening up to a Med cluster, which is active location policy. This not only ensures us the excellent medical care of tomorrow, but also the jobs of tomorrow. Here Upper Austria is exemplary, namely, together with the economy, together with the university, and we make it possible from politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e19782	Next speaker: Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e19804	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As a Vorarlberger, I hardly dare to comment on this issue here; because our federal state is, of course, too small to take such steps. [[Congratulations and cheerfulness with representatives of the SPÖ]] Nevertheless, there are some aspects that I can point out from Vorarlberg's point of view. However, I would like to follow up on what Mrs Kuntzl has already said at the beginning. I would like to thank the former Minister of Science very much because, I think, he has addressed the issue in a very open way. He did not do it, for instance, because the pressure was very great, because the political power behind it was simply to enforce it, but that is just a project that we all stand behind, I think. Good and intense negotiations have been conducted, and we can say yes today with fug and right and, as I mean, with my full heart. At the beginning of my speech I might like to refer briefly to the opinion of the Austrian Science Council of April last year, which has examined the concept of the JKU Linz Medical Faculty – and that, as I think, very critical – in four important aspects: ‘1. Interest of the University of Linz, the General Hospital of the City of Linz (ACH) and the National Policy of Upper Austria; 2. need and need for further medical courses; 3rd. feasibility; 4. Development potential and adjustment.’ A year later – it was also underlined by the new minister, by the individual speakers who have given a positive opinion – it can be said that the essential decisions have been prepared and the conditions have been created. Former Minister of Science Erhard Busek considers four medical-uni-stations plus private medical education in Salzburg. I'm allowed to quote literally: “No one should believe that the new medical profession will correct the medical shortage in the mill district ( ). Again, only many German students will be trained as doctors for Germany.” I do not share these concerns at all. I would just like to mention one example of our federal state, because we also have a lot of young men and women who, as students, leave the country, study medicine and come back as a young doctor in quite a very small number of cases, or even later as a doctor. We too are considering what we can do to bind young people to the country. I know it often sounds very banal. That's what it says. Can't be! But this regional relationship with a training centre is of great importance from my point of view and should not be underestimated. This argument always falls a little under the table, but, I think, is a very important one. Therefore, from our point of view, we are convinced in this project because there are good and reasonable study conditions for medical students in Linz. I might also like to say this to Mr Maurer as a consolation, since she will obviously not vote for it today. The fact that the financial details have already been disputed is also mentioned in the discussion. The problem of clinical additional burden in the calculation between university clinics and the medical faculty – here too I am optimistic. We know the costs of the hospital's previous operation and can work out the clinical additional burden according to the principle of cost-truth, according to the 'polluter pays' principle, as I mean. For us too, it is important and crucial that the agreements with the University Conference, which I would like to finalize, should be maintained. That means, among other things, more money for universities and more money for basic research. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e19887	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We now have many points to put to the vote; I therefore ask for undivided attention. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 4: Request of the Scientific Committee, the conclusion of the present agreement between the Federal Government and the Upper Austria on the establishment and operation of a Faculty of Medicine and the establishment of the study of human medicine at the University of Linz pursuant to Article 15a B-VG in 23 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and it is accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 5: Draft federal law amending the University Act 2002, including title and entry into 35 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority and accepted. [[Abg. May. Arbitrators: Green diversity?- Oh, my God!]] We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. [[21:12:30]] Vote on agenda items 2 and 3
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e19932	We are now moving to the vote on Agenda items 2 and 3. First of all, the present referral request must be voted on. On item 3 there is a referral request from Members Willi, colleagues. I shall immediately vote on the draft law on tax-amending law 2014 to refer it back to the Financial Committee in 31 of its supplements. I am looking for a sign for those members of the House who are in favour of it. – This is the minority and rejected. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 2: Draft federal law, with which an authorisation is available via federal assets, together with the title and receipt in 16 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this draft to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – The draft law is therefore also unanimously adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 3: Draft Amendment Act 2014 in 31 of the Supplements. The following additional or amendments have been tabled: Amendment or amendment tabled by Mr Mag. Mr Zakostelsky, Mr Krainer, ladies and gentlemen, five amendments tabled by Mrs Ddr. Mr Fuchs, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Magnette's amendment. Kogler, ladies and gentlemen, Amendment by Mr Willi, colleagues, Amendment by Mrs Ing. Mr Lugar, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Pock, ladies and gentlemen. I shall therefore first of all vote on the parts of the legislative proposal concerned by the supplementary or amending proposals and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies DDr. Fuchs, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Art. 1 Z 4. I am looking for a sign for those ladies who are speaking for it. – That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. - That's accepted. Deputies Mag. Zakostelsky, Krainer, colleagues have an additional or amendment request concerning the insertion of a new Z 7a, as well as amendments to the Z 12 in Art. 1 introduced. Whoever is here, I ask him for a sign of approval. - That's accepted. Deputies DDr. Fuchs and colleagues have an amendment concerning Art. 2 Z 4. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are speaking for it. – That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those Members of the House who are in favour of it to give a sign of approval. - That's accepted. Deputies Mag. Zakostelsky, Krainer, ladies and gentlemen have an amendment concerning Art. 2 Z 8. Whoever joins these changes, I ask for a positive sign. - That's accepted. Deputies DDr. Fuchs, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment to delete Z 3 and 5 in Art. 10 and the resulting amendment to the numbering. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those Members of the House who give their consent to him to give a positive sign. - That's accepted. Mr Pock, ladies and gentlemen, have an additional proposal concerning the insertion of a new Z6 in Art. ==References== Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – That is rejected. Deputies DDr. Fuchs, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning the deletion of this kind. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who advocate a sign. – That is rejected. Deputies Ing. Mr Lugar, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment relating to Rule. 12 Z 1 § 6 para. 2 introduced. Whoever joins these changes, I'm looking for a sign. – That is rejected. Members Willi, colleagues and I have an amendment concerning Rule. 12 Z 1 § 6 para. 3 introduced. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 12 as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those Members of the House who give their consent to it to give an appropriate sign. - That's accepted. Deputies DDr. Fuchs, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning the deletion of this kind. 14 to be introduced. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this sign to do so. - That's accepted. Mr Ddr. Fuchs and colleagues as well as MEPs Mag. Mr Kogler, ladies and gentlemen, each of us has tabled a similar amendment to delete this type of amendment. 24 to the content. Whoever joins these changes, I ask for a sign. – That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law, as amended by the Committee's report, taking account of the amendment tabled by Mr Mag. Mr Zakostelsky, Mr Krainer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. 24 Z 3. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a positive sign. - That's accepted. Deputies DDr. Fuchs, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning the deletion of the species. 25 and 26. Whoever stands for it, I'm looking for a sign. – That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those members of the House who give their consent to it to give a corresponding sign. - That's accepted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. - That's accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – The draft law is therefore also adopted by a majority at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Nachbaur, Mr Mag. Alm, colleagues and colleagues on new legislation in the corporate tax law. [[Abg. Auer: Where is the replicator?]] I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Alm, colleagues on the establishment of a ‘Small-AG’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the request to have a sign of approval. – That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strolz, Dr Nachbaur, colleagues, on the new regulation of the income tax exemption in the Income Tax Act. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the request to have a sign of approval. – That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strolz, colleagues, on tax exemption for employee capital. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the request to have a sign of approval. – That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strolz, colleagues, on the abolition of charges for rental contracts, lease contracts and other stock contracts. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the request to have a sign of approval. – That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Köchl, colleagues, on the doubling of the basic tax exemption in the Income Tax Act. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – That is rejected. I thank you very much for your concentration and attention. [[21:23:25]] 6. Point Report of the Scientific Committee on the Government Template (25D.B._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Federal Law on the University of Further Education Krems (DUK Act 2004) (36 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e20026	We're coming to the 6th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Maurer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e20054	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Mr. Minister! Little surprising is that even this item on the agenda is not one that fills me with joy. The Danube University Krems is a university, actually a university center for further education, which has always had a special status. For those there is a law of their own, which, although most of the time, refers to the university law, but which still has a lot of special provisions. The Danube University offers only university courses, which only extraordinary students can study. She's not a private university, she doesn't have to be accredited. You can't take a Bachelor's degree at the Danube University Krems, no regular Master's degree, no diploma degree. Now, although it does not offer all these basic studies itself, that is, not to represent the entire Bologna circle, it should still have the right to carry out promotions independently. This law has also been widely rejected in the sector. There is also a consensus in the sector. This right of promotion is not a strategic measure. To date, the Danube University of Krems has been able to carry out the doctorates in cooperation with the right universities, even if it absolutely wanted to do so. But it is in line with the wishes of the state of Lower Austria and also with the wishes of the rector, that is Mr Faulhammer, who was formerly head of the Department of Science, that this doctoral right is granted. Criticism from the science sector is mainly concerned that the Danube University of Krems cannot guarantee the quality necessary for such a doctoral study. At the very beginning, it would have been planned that no accreditation at all would be granted. Now there is a clause in the law that needs to be accredited per PhD course. However, from my point of view, it is not quite legal to explain whether this actually works, because the paragraphs referred to are actually related to colleges and private universities, where institutional accreditation must have already preceded each one. So there I'm excited if that happens in the form at all. Mr Minister, you have asked the committee what we are doing for a revolt because of this handful of dissertations. You could say, of course, yes, okay, it's not that tragic, it's only a few people. However, this approach and the DUK's doctoral right is a precedent, because the next universities are already knocking on. It's the colleges. They have also wanted equality with universities for many years. They would also like to have the right to promote, and there are also great concerns as to whether the quality criteria necessary for such a doctoral study can actually be met. [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: They can do this!]] But it will be difficult to refuse that after opening the door. This history is part of a development in the tertiary sector, which is causing me general concern, namely an increasing dismay. We now have special regulations for the Faculty of Medicine in Linz, but also for the Danube University of Krems. We have all kinds of cooperation. We register foreign studies very easily in Austria without controlling their quality. In the context of cooperation between several universities and foreign universities, there are very dizzy constructions, where a Bachelor is offered in a year and a half and so on. All these developments are definitely not compatible with the quality of the Austrian higher education sector. In this sense, I strongly support the discussions and the discussions that we urgently need, namely a structured discussion of what a doctoral right is really. What is the role of doctorates in higher education, in research? Which quality criteria are necessary for this? And to whom do we want to give this right? We certainly do not want to give this right to the Danube University of Krems. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e20090	Now there is a rector, Professor Dr. Däderle, to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e20112	Mr President. Minister! High house! Since the beginning of its existence, the Danube University of Krems has seen a tremendous upturn, with a strong increase in the number of students. It has three faculties and is working on a field that is becoming increasingly important, namely the field of further training. This is a very important field in many respects, of course also a field where research needs to be carried out. That is why from the university's point of view, it is perfectly understandable that they seek the right to apply for a doctorate. It was also part of the previous government program that the Danube University of Krems was gradually brought to the usual forms of state universities. The possibility of doing doctorates is becoming more and more important within the modern university, for two reasons: One is that dissertations are among the most important and creative forms of research today. Dissertations are therefore so important and so creative because they are carried out first by young, emerging, dynamic people. Secondly, it is important that they are usually carried out in the form of doctoral colleges, that is, those teams that are researching there. These are teams that are also paid for this research. That is, if you create a doctoral right, you also create jobs for young researchers. That's the one side. The other side is that established researchers are almost dependent on such doctoral colleges if they can use such groups in their research, which is often carried out in the team according to scientific paradigm. That means we have an interaction: A university is attractive to students through the law of PhD, but it is also attractive and only really attractive for highly qualified teachers, for researchers, for professors. If a university wants to be successful in its vocational policy, it needs a doctoral right, otherwise it will only get the best researchers difficult. It is therefore important for these two reasons and for a university almost existential to have the right of doctorate. That's why I fully understand the ambitions of the Danube University Krems that she wants to. The concern that lack of quality can take place can be scattered with several arguments: Firstly, the university itself has asked a body to analyse whether it has the necessary quality in certain areas. This is, of course, a body ordered by the university itself, but still occupied with very competent people. They have certified this quality to the Danube University of Krems in certain areas. Secondly – and this is even more important –: This doctoral degree must be accredited. I've already mentioned this. This is provided for in the Quality Assurance Framework Act, which we adopted under my ministry in 2011. Thirdly, This quality, already secured by the State, will then be evaluated after eight years. There is therefore a very sophisticated quality assurance programme, and there must be no need to worry at all that this right of promotion in Krems is not very qualitatively guaranteed. For the reasons mentioned – strengthening this university, strengthening its research, strengthening its career opportunities, strengthening the activity for young researchers – I am very much in favour of approving this right of promotion in the important field of further education at the Danube University Krems.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e20167	Mr Ddr. Scherak speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e20188	Mr President. So if I got it right, you gave me a doctor's degree too much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e20204	That's registered!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e20219	Two?
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e20237	No, one.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e20253	Oh, that's right. I got two. But thank you! Mr. Minister! [[Call the ÖVP: It can still be!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: He's still young!]] [[Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz: You can get that in Krems, the second doctorate!]] – Wait You're on it? Other federal state, similar problem: It is particularly exciting – I have looked at the speaker list before – that many of the Lower Austrians will then tell us: It is particularly important for the location Lower Austria, and so on and so on. However, it is not about the country-specific interests of Lower Austria, it is about the general question whether the Danube University Krems is currently ready to obtain this doctorate right. [[Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz: Ready or capable?]] – Ready and capable! [[Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz: Ready! Do you want to doubt the ability now?]] - I'll do that right now. I can now say – even if the other Lower Austrian Members will see it differently – as Lower Austrian MPs and as a student at the Danube University Krems – because I am still studying, however, doing a master there: No, at the moment these conditions are simply not given. In particular, the head of the state of Lower Austria does not like this and the head of the state of the ÖVP even less. He wrote in a press release that NEOS are so evil and that children want to break their wings. I leave this uncommented once and try to somehow address the factual arguments. There are three fundamental problems in relation to the DUK's right of promotion: First of all, the quality: The quality and the necessary international criteria must be the top priority, including sufficient care, sufficiently skilled teaching staff and appropriate equipment – i.e. structural and scientific capacities. The fact that there are shortcomings has often noted enough both the unico and the high schooling. However, the presidents of the University Senate say it most clearly, and I am now quoting: "Doctoral studies have the ability to communicate independent scientific work. However, it is highly unclear whether the Danube-Uni-Krems (DUK) is able to offer such studies at traditionally high scientific level, including theory and specialized methodology.” That is why I do not understand why we are following the will of a head of state here again instead of maintaining the status quo for a certain period of time. At the Danube University Krems, you already have the opportunity to start a doctoral degree, but in conjunction with other universities. It is precisely this that I think we should stay here for the time being, that is, until the Danube University of Krems has the capacity to offer a doctoral degree itself. What we're doing now is we're continuing to cement the DUK's special position. The DUK is a university – as Mrs Maurer has said before – without Bachelor's degree programmes, which are now to be awarded a doctorate right, which has an unmistakable special position in many other areas. I do not believe that this is a comprehensive university concept and is therefore not to be welcomed. What further brings about a special position for the DUK is that the evaluation mechanisms are not carried out in a conventional framework, that is, after six years, but only after eight years. It's also something that doesn't give me much insight. In general, this gives me the picture that the DUK is currently setting up a special position in the Austrian university landscape in the long term and is to be further strengthened with this doctoral right. It is precisely because of this special position that we cannot agree with this project, where too many questions remain.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e20358	Mrs Magnette has now come to speak. Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e20380	Ladies and gentlemen! We discuss with the PhD law for the Danube University Krems an appreciation of this university, the creation of a new, high-quality training route in Austria, especially in Lower Austria. This question has also been seen quite differently. For us, one of the essential issues in this context was the concern that my colleague, Mrs Däderle, has already raised about the possible lack of quality of this offer. We see this quality guaranteed and ensured that the offers of PhD studies at this university must be accredited in accordance with the university law and that an evaluation is planned. The evaluation is planned after eight years. This is a time period after which you can look at it and estimate it. In times like this, it is not an essential aspect – and therefore it is added – that this additional offer is not linked to a financial additional burden by the federal government.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e20410	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e20431	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! It's interesting what you hear about rejection. A student who himself studies at the Danube University says: They're not that good at all. – What does he do there? Is it maybe too easy for him? Or what does he even want to do there? The Danube University of Krems has always been a special case since the beginning, because it was about further education. One has just decided to make a university of one's own type. It has already been suggested that, of course, even at this university institution – even if no full study is offered from the beginning – one has the possibility of obtaining a doctorate in very special studies in the context of further education, for example, if one already has an academic degree. Now it is lamented that the university landscape is being broken down, what I have heard above all from the Greens, the high schooling is also opposed. I do not really want to go into the activities of high school now, because others who are financed with compulsory contributions actually have nothing to do with high school. The fact is that at the Danube University Krems – the Danube University Act, you have certainly seen this, is from 2004; now we have gone a little further ten years after. It is perhaps not surprising for you now that I come from Krems and therefore this university is of course also very well known, in particular, what excellent work is being done there, even what is being done in the administration. I have always thought that if there are a lot of Greens or former Greens politicians working there, this might be a good thing. But maybe the Greens have a different access to it. I am thinking of a former member of the Greens' National Council who is working there. I think of former councils of the Greens working there. Maybe you've had other experiences there that you're skeptical of what's happening there. I can only say that they do excellent work there. It's going to be scientifically excellent. And of course, it is not that there are doctoral students in the immeasurable, since there is only a limited degree programme offered there, but in this scientific excellence is good. It's being researched. And, this is always explained to me by all educational experts, just this variety that enables Bologna architecture, you have to do. The fundamental debate would have been – and perhaps I could win something from Mrs Maurer – if we had said from the outset that we wanted to maintain the university in the humboldt sense. But no one else says that except the Freedom Party. Unfortunately, we have the conditions of the Bologna architecture – unfortunately God. We have the Pisa test, the Bologna architecture – I don't know how these beautiful oberItalian cities even get to give in to it.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e20477	Mr Mitterlehner spoke on a point of view. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e20498	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! As mentioned above, the novelle now in place will set up the doctoral law of the Danube University Krems for the formation and promotion of young scientists at the Danube University Krems. Essentially, it is – some have complained that there would be no quality – that you ensure exactly this quality accordingly. That's where we got standards. These standards are examined by the Quality Assurance Agency, and this is also one of the basic principles – there is a prior opinion – that this procedure is now confirmed here. An evaluation is also foreseen after eight years of quality assurance. That is to say, it is seen whether the conditions relating to the education and promotion of young scientists are also observed. I understand that there is scepticism, but on the other hand I do not understand that if quality is structured and also defined, these concerns are not removed. It has already been mentioned: There have already been projects in cooperation with other universities, namely exactly 56 dissertation projects, which have already been completed. This is also proof that the corresponding quality has already been lived in practice. It is clear, also mentioned, that it is now possible to train your own scientists at the DUK in this form. This makes Krems, of course, more attractive for renowned professors, but of course also for students. This means that the Danube University of Krems benefits altogether, and it can position itself differently. It is also, of course, a way to increase efficiency, as existing infrastructure is used more efficiently by increasing research orientation. It has also been mentioned to what extent this is to take place. It is true that when accreditation is started in 2014, ten doctoral candidates are initially provided for in three programmes. This is a quantitatively manageable size. A cross-border doctoral degree is currently not meaningful and not planned. I do not want to do this any more after all the other arguments have been dealt with. In essence, what we have now is nothing but a recognition of the previous achievements of the Danube University Krems. It is a special position which has been addressed here, through quality and secured with quality and thus also a way to increase the attractiveness of the University of Krems in the next few years. And we want to participate in that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e20543	Mrs Himmelbauer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e20565	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Doctoral law is an important basis for further development for the Danube University, not only on the way to full university, but also on the development of research quality as well as the qualification of employees and the promotion of young scientists, because, due to the legal situation in the DUK law, the carriers of the PhD programmes are the partner universities, although the PhD programmes have already been carried out at the Danube University Krems in the framework of cooperation with other universities since 1996. That is to say, students who have been enrolled in other universities have already become and will be accompanied and supervised by the Danube University Krems, whose professors are academically supported and supervised; a total of 56 doctoral projects already. Since Mr Scherak said that the respective capacities are missing in teaching and research, I can only take one extract of the capacities there to bring light into the dark: At the Faculty of Health and Medicine, 14 professors and 35 academic staff are working with a completed doctorate. There are three professors and 21 scientific staff at the Faculty of Economics and Globalization. And at the Faculty of Education, Arts and Architecture, four professors and 13 scientific staff are working with a completed doctorate. In addition, the political communication platform is occupied by a professor and a scientific assistant with a completed doctorate. Today's decision is an important milestone in the history of the Danube University of Krems and a recognition of the successful work since its foundation 20 years ago. And I hope and ask for broad approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e20598	Next speaker: Mr Kucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e20619	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! I think that in all debates about the future of the Danube University Krems, about the law of promotion and also the special case of the Danube University of Krems, we can all be satisfied with the development of the Danube University of Krems and together we can be a little proud of it. To date, it is the only state university in Europe specializing in postgraduate education, lifelong, life-long learning. She is celebrating her 20th anniversary next year. birthday. With more than 16 000 graduates from over 90 countries, she is very successful on the road despite her young age. With today's amendment of the Federal Law on the University of Continuing Education Krems, we lay the legal basis for the further development of the Danube University, and we also allow new perspectives for the training of young scientists. The establishment of doctoral studies is largely left to the individual universities in Austria on the basis of legal regulations. In addition to the 21 state universities, the 13 private universities have been entitled to set up PhD programmes since 2003. In the future, this possibility will also be open to students at the Danube University of Krems. We have heard it today in the debate, ladies and gentlemen: There have been numerous critical comments in advance. The main topics were: Can we meet the strict scientific quality criteria? Does Danube University have structural and scientific capacity? And: How does the financing take place? It was precisely these opinions that were, of course, incorporated into the review process. This draft law contains a number of framework conditions to ensure the high quality of the study programmes. The degree programmes must be accredited by the Quality Assurance and Accreditation Agency Austria prior to their establishment. And, of course, there has to be an evaluation after eight years. This law allows new places of work and study, especially for young researchers, and is a building block for the successful development of the Danube University Krems on the basis of strict quality criteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e20662	Mrs Kucharovich was the last speaker to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e20683	Mr President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! Dear students! Today, we are discussing the implementation of PhD-doctoral studies at the Danube-Uni Krems. According to the Rector, three PhD programs are planned, namely regenerative medicine, migration studies and space and social inclusion – exciting and important fields that form a further location for scientific research. Some of you may think about why we, the SPÖ club, are supporting this project. Should we not focus our first attention on basic studies and rather less on extraordinary studies? But precisely with the background and, above all, the basis of absolute support and also belief in lifelong learning, no matter what age, which is very important for us Social Democrats, and is very important to us and what we are pressing for, I can now offer you four more solid arguments for the introduction and implementation of PhD studies at a continuing education union. Firstly, the education and research of young scientists. Secondly, The establishment requires accreditation in accordance with the Higher Quality Assurance Act. That's us, we've heard it several times, especially important. Thirdly, An evaluation shall also be carried out at the latest eight years after the establishment. Fourth: The establishment does not require any financial expenditure by the federal government. The quality is ours and was also the university conference, the high school conference, the ÖH and many, many others, a very special concern, as well as the cost neutrality for the federal government. We would not have to have public universities, designed in accordance with the university law, doing so would result in disadvantages. Studying is a public asset that should be accessible to all people, without barriers. This is our access, the access of the SPÖ. At this point, however, I should also like to say that the increase in family allowances, which is very, very important for young people and really great, must not lead to any disadvantage for students who are eligible for study aid. I am therefore very pleased that the Committee of Ministers has already issued positive signals to find solutions here. I should also like to say that we need easier access to the application for study aid. At the moment, only 14 percent of students are eligible for study aid, but I do not think that is because the rest would not need it, but because many do not know about the possibility at all. Our access or proposal, which we have also discussed in the Committee, would be as follows: for example, already in the online first registration. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, We support politicians with the best conditions for students! That must be our mission, at least it's quite clear to us. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e20741	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 25 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this draft to be a sign of approval. - That's accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft, to a sign on this point. – The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[21:54:19]] 7. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors’ report Series Bund 2010/11 (III-4/37 d.b.) 8. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors’ report Series Bund 2011/8 (III-5/38 d.b.) 9. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors’ report Series Bund 2013/13 (III-33/40 D.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e20815	We now come to points 7 to 9 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Mayer has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e20842	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I should like to start by thanking the President of the Court of Auditors – and I believe this is what I am saying on behalf of all the members of the Court of Auditors – for the profound and competent introduction of all Members of the Court of Auditors themselves on the subject, on the structural tasks, but also on the new challenges. We have greatly appreciated this and, I believe, we have had a good start for the first session, which was very intense, because, by the new elections and the delay until the first session, some Court of Auditors reports, under quotation marks, are “remained” which we have tried to work on and work through. Some would have been worth it and would be worth talking it through in part today. I am thinking, for example, of the implementation of measures for mentally abnormal legal breakers, who, because there are conditions, land in hospitals, or as an educational interested person – let us say so – on the use of Austrian teachers abroad and also on foreign schools with the follow-up checks which, from my point of view, are very important. To sum up, the pleasure of the debate was the commitment of all the members of the Court of Auditors to the importance of the Court of Auditors to our task as a parliamentarian in order to be able to carry out our control work accordingly. That is why the broad support we have all promised. Personally, I'm one who's very implementation-oriented. I am therefore pleased that 80 percent of your proposals, Mr President, are actually implemented, apart from some percentage point on or off, but I think it should be our goal to increase this figure as well. It was also the subject of the Committee: How is this to be financed? I voted in favour of the Committee that we should be very quick to sit down and think about all the political groups, but in particular with the government partner, we should have new demands on the Court of Auditors in the future, including at the same time how to finance it. Because one thing has become clear: The Court of Auditors is also at the disposal of its financial possibilities, and there is no longer much possible. There have already been restrictions at least in the international audit system, and no one wants that. On the other hand, we are all forced to save. We all know that ministries have to save over €500 million, and so on and so on, so the public prosecutors, the Court of Auditors, are not in favour of this. But I am convinced that we will also find a way here so that work can continue so successfully. For me personally, the cross-sectional checks are very important, because this is a task that cannot be done by a control office of the state government or local audit committees or national accounting courts. This can only be done by the Federal Court of Auditors itself, whether it be in the field of hospitals or in the area of the municipalities, where we have seen, for example, that hidden taxes are actually lifted, that the charges are were not used to form reserves, but to stop budget holes in the community, and so on and so on. The Court of Auditors has very wide-ranging tasks, now extended to include the responsibility of examining communities with over 10,000 inhabitants. I mean, we have a lot to do here and this is very committed. I am looking forward to the joint work for the future and wish all of us that we can work as efficiently and effectively as possible in the interests of Parliament. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e20893	Our colleague, Mr Gahr, has now been reported on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e20915	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! The 2013 Activity Report shows a variety of tasks and areas where the Court of Auditors is carrying out audits and their results, which it presents to us here. He has submitted to the National Council twelve reports with 56 contributions, together with the activity report, the federal accounts, the income report that we are discussing later today. Before I go into the report briefly, I should like to make it clear that we discussed the structural reform of the police in the early days. “Safety instead of post closures!” it was said in the current hour. The Court of Auditors, in its 599 recommendations – in Recommendation 413, 414, 415 and 416 – has proposed, among other things, that we should and should implement structural reforms, especially in the areas of police, security and structural reforms, and that is exactly this proposal, our Mrs Federal Minister. It is about reducing the service structure, writes the Court of Auditors, about construction measures and, in particular, also about increasing the external presence. In this respect, the Court of Auditors has given us guidelines, and these are also politically implemented by our Federal Minister. That was perhaps a little too little mentioned this morning. Overall, I think, we can see – what Mr Mayer has already said – that implementation in the Court of Auditors works. Out of 1,157 recommendations, 1,089 were answered, only 21.2 percent were not implemented. A focus and, as I believe, a new and current challenge for the Court of Auditors' work are the municipal audits, but that was also the financial scandal in Salzburg, the media transparency law and the party law. In particular, the community examinations, which have been carried out since 1. In January 2011, 74 municipalities with more than 10,000 inhabitants are possible, it is clear that it is important that we have so-called community cross-sectional audits and thus gain insight, better and more sustainable insight into the financial performance of the communities. Especially in the case of municipal audits, I believe, it is in the future that we can guarantee effective control in coordination with supervisory bodies in the municipality, district administration authorities, national auditory court and Federal Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors is critical of the fact that there are still control gaps in the audit of the national accounting authorities. At present, only the federal states of Salzburg, Tyrol and Vorarlberg – that the Landeskonduitshof can also become active – have granted audit rights in the small towns. With regard to the Salzburg financial scandal, the Court of Auditors has clearly stated that there have been control gaps, and has proposed that the ban on speculation should be introduced immediately, as well as a new budgetary law and a new accounting system. According to the Media Transparency Act, which is now also subject to the audit of the Court of Auditors, 6 500 bodies are published, and the Court of Auditors checks them for completeness and accuracy. There are still other possibilities for improvement and optimization here. Overall, this report 2013 shows that the work of the Court of Auditors in Austria is working, that, I say, we need to continue working intensively, to prepare the reports as soon as possible in order to include these reports in political work, in political decision-making. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e20966	Mr Zanger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e20987	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! I think that was already a very good sign, a very good thing, the invitation to the Court of Auditors itself on Wednesday and then the discussion in the Committee on Thursday, and thank you for that. The discussion we have then held is not entirely new. As early as 2012, the issue came to the fore that the funding gap exists in the Court of Auditors' budget. You see, one must repeatedly insist that perhaps one really comes to a reasonable discussion. I say once, I hope, that this meeting, which we have decided, which Mr Mayer has already mentioned, really happens now. For me one and a half years too late, but okay, let's really do it, I'm good things! Even if your words are a little skeptical, Mr Mayer, if you say that if we are to transfer tasks to the Court of Auditors in the future, we have to think about financing equally. I think we must now reconsider those tasks with which we have already entrusted the Court of Auditors. Let's take a look at this! On the one hand, it is the party law that the Court of Auditors has to collect and publish legal acts of the legal entities subject to its control with political parties and their participating parties. That's what the law says, and that's 5,700 lawyers. So we can already imagine what huge administrative burden this means for an institution which is actually a control body of Parliament. In fact, we have to consider whether we are not too restricting the core competences of our institution too much. But that's still going on. There is also this Media Transparency Act, which requires the Court of Auditors to forward a six-yearly list of legal entities subject to its jurisdiction to be updated to the Community, which is even greater for me. That is to say, the Court of Auditors has to write to these lawyers every six months, who then keep in evidence, see if everything comes back, probably go back a few times, I assume – that will not fail – and that at 5,700 jobs twice a year. I'm sorry about what we're supposed to do. The President informed that until now 939 days of staff were spent only on the administration. This corresponds essentially to 16 follow-up reviews, which, as we have now heard from all sides, are very relevant, important and interesting when it comes to understanding the feasibility of implementation. Mr. Gahr, I know you always depend on the 80 percent – a few percent up or down is not so tragic now, I am also with you, colleague Mayer – but the real coal is to get with the 20 percent you do not implement. You need to see that, maybe you'll get a little bit in there or the government. Whenever it comes to changing structures, it becomes juicy, but as I said, the real coal lies in it, which would also bring something to the population. The Court of Auditors is, in my view, the only body in the country that is self-evident. The municipal examinations have also been tailor-made; I would now like to draw on one that has been a few years ago. I think it was in 2011, in Fohnsdorf in Styria, we all know the disaster, at least we Steirer, which happened there, but the true incredible is that, because of the report, the prosecutor has begun to determine. Now we write the year 2014, and in the meantime nothing happened. There have been a few parliamentary questions on this issue, the former Minister of Justice Karl – she is now sitting there in the second row – can probably still remember that we also had one. There's nothing passing! Only recently have I received a reply that the need for further investigations has been identified at once after three years. So I can't understand. In the report, there is the chapter entitled “Vulnerations of the Community’s Rules” – which is a separate chapter in the report – and it states, for example, that, regardless of what has been done, the provisions of the Steermärk Community Regulations have been violated in several areas. Infringements burdened the legal status of the decisions, could lead to the invalidity of the decisions in accordance with the provisions of the Community rules. It is stated that these violations were marked by the occurrence of an uncompetent institution, from the out-of-representation power of the mayor to the non-observance of regulatory approval, non-compliance with accounting rules, and so on. I know what the Court of Auditors can prove, he says, and what he cannot prove he does not say. That is to say, there are documents in which I believe that the public prosecutor needed to go only to the Court of Auditors and request these documents and could bring an accusation, reworded or not, to the end of history once. I say to myself: If something does not happen at last within a reasonable time, this first half year, then we will certainly accept this topic again by the Freedom Party in autumn, for that cannot be it. Just imagine that it would be a liberal or some other opposition politician mayor in such a pleite community. How quickly would it stand in front of the Kadi! – So I don't think it can be.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e21039	Mr President, I think you wanted to make a request. [[Abg. Singer: Willfully not!]] Okay. Now comes Mr. Ing. May. Kogler. Please, Mr Klubobmann's deputy.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e21070	“Engineer” is not; but I do not think that will be forgiven in Krems either. Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! It has finally come to the first Committee on the Court of Auditors. This has a bit- It's been a long time. Mrs Moser, the new chairman, cannot be here today, she is apologised. I just wanted to point out that from my point of view, the Presidency's handing over has worked well and that it works very well. On this occasion, however, as the former chairman of the Group leaders of the old GP, I should like to thank Mrs Lapp, who is no longer here, with Mr Gahr, who is with Mr Zanger – now I have to think; less for myself – Mrs Schenk, who is not here now. That's how it was in the last GP. This time we – the first speaker, Mr Mayer, pointed out – have a pretty long way to come up with – I come to the end to speak briefly on this subject; I hope that this will be done accordingly – because, after all, political differences have always led to the fact that some things are not being dealt with. But that's what I'm gonna turn to. But now only on the three activity reports. Traditionally, this is always about the general issues of public financial control, and there are always light and shadows. First of all, perhaps a trace of the light. It is true that a constitutional change was achieved not least in 2009 by the initiative of the Greens, that the Federal Court of Auditors – I am saying now Federal Court of Auditors – is allowed to examine the communities of up to 10,000 inhabitants, but still not all. That's why we keep fighting. This does not overwhelm the Court of Auditors because it chooses a particular scheme, where it goes, and, of course, the prophylactic effect, but also, as you are increasingly stressing in recent years, the advisory effect can become all the more powerful. At the same time, however, we have adopted the constitutional provision and possibility for the countries that they can then examine at least municipalities of less than 10 000 inhabitants. This has been a gruesome phase for a long time now, because little has happened. But now I can only praise the state of Styria. There is at least once a political agreement in the last week that this will be done there. That's probably just right and good after this fohnsdorfer exzess. I also hope, however, that the national accounting authorities can at least achieve the audit standard and the status of the Federal Court of Auditors half way, so that something can be triggered accordingly, because otherwise it does not help so much. That's also an old theme. Of course, in the area of local authorities, transparent budgetary and accounting systems would still be the key issue. What we are already lost in the observation and thus in the diagnosis and then, above all, in the therapy, is still immense. But I don't just have to stay with the communities. There are a few federal states where this is worse, and others are much better – by the way, traditional West-East cases seem to me. So Lower Austria, Steiermark devastating. That is what we think is happening over there, because we do not have to do a party political assignment when we see how some communities stand, not only because of the difficult budgetary situation, which results from the reduction of population, income and so on, but either because of overload or a number of maladministrations. That's easy. And that must be done if this is particularly common in some federal states. Let us stay with the federal states, because this is all the general issue of financial control now! Of course, there is no single ban on speculation far and wide. You have offered a compromise in the negotiations. That's right. He hasn't gone too far for us. However, it is true that the countries could still have done what they want, even in this old compromise. They've been taking advantage of the opportunity so far. Some of them make it better. You can praise Salzburg quietly. They have put something on their feet, which can be seen from my point of view, the Styria still not. There you have to imagine what this freedom means. They claim to have a ban on speculation. At the same time, they have debated some shady government directive that has nothing to do with the ban on speculation, as it means here, and which has already been cast into drafts. But they stand down and claim it. So that's what's going on down there and over it. And if one asked the head of state of Lower Austria, he would still defend this housing loan history today, involving Hypo, with all possible growths, where the Court of Auditors' diagnosis and findings are: up to € 2 billion in the meantime or still lost and not so easily recoverable – except for Hasard, who is usually not going well – in a 2-billion loss. - Hello and good night. So, I'm coming to the end, because the speaking time is almost over. I would just like to say one more thing about this collection of reports. Some reports have therefore remained so long because there was no consensus. That's a political question. And above all, it is a question of dealing, for example, with the banking report on FIMBAG, with the implementation of the bank package, which was decided unanimously here, in a way that the Minister responsible for that time is not invited to the committee. And on other occasions, the subject is now constantly coming up. And we don't see that. The report on FIMBAG was extremely critical. And Mr Liebscher, as the board of directors of FIMBAG, who is not an unknown one, as well as the second, Mr. Wala, who has become famous with his luxury pension now, but certainly not with his work in the FIMBAG, these rulers have not fulfilled their mission there. And they are to be hidden from Parliament! Or if they're already coming, everyone will just have a half hour or an hour of surveying time. No, it'll take three half days! We will explore this – we do not need an investigation committee at all – with the right ministers. Mrs Fekter had nothing to do with these events from my point of view. They always wanted to send us; we wanted the pomp, he will have to come too. You won't be able to prevent that anymore. And the honourable Member, Mr Mayer, has only learned the first time in the committee what has been done up to now. So new swing, wonderful! The SPÖ is now ambitious. We hope this elan stops.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e21147	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e21168	The Court of Auditors shall do well. The Court of Auditors is important. The Court of Auditors is an important instrument of Parliament. We hear this again and again in this House, and we hear it from all parties. We hear it from the blacks, we hear it from the reds, of course we hear it from the opposition. And of course that's true, that's not a question. It is only in the light of what we have experienced in the Committee that we wonder whether this is meant honestly – and above all by the SPÖ. I wonder if the SPÖ really means it honestly, when it spreads roses to the Court of Auditors again and again, if the honourable Member, Matznetter, has put the rod in the window before the election of the Court of Auditors, according to the motto: The Court of Auditors should be able to save on its own initiative once again and again if it gives the government such good advice. - Originalton Matznetter. Let us just look at what we are doing in the Committee when it comes to replacing the cost of the Court of Auditors with what it has more to pay, and that is €10 million by 2016. That is why he has to pay more because he now also has to pay the service providers' contributions, that is, money that benefits the state again. But that is not what the Court of Auditors wants to do. You don't want it. The Committee has delayed the request that I will make again today. And if you talk to my colleague, Mr Mayer, it says: Yes, everyone has to save, and of course we also have to save from the Court of Auditors. This is about 3.6 million in two years, which is 1.8 million € per year. So 1.8 million were needed by the Court of Auditors in order to be able to balance half-way. And that will keep him from doing so. And then it says: Yeah, we don't have any money and everyone has to save. I would point out that only today the cover at the NoVA alone has brought €5 million in losses. Just because you have introduced this lid for your clients at the NoVA, we now have these € 5 million less. We could spend them wonderfully on the Court of Auditors. It's about something completely different. It is not about the fact that there is no money, but it is about putting the rod in the window to the Court of Auditors according to the motto: If you continue to check so closely, you must also look at how you are doing with the financial resources. That's what it's all about! That is to say, the government or the Ministry of Finance puts the Court of Auditors in the window. For where is it that he who is tested decides what he gets? There's nowhere but us. There's that with us. That is why we also need to talk about it. I am now submitting this request, which was buried in the Committee, and I hope that it will receive your approval today. [[Quoted print version removed]] It's not about gifts of money. It's just that the extra effort we've defined here will be paid off. That's why it's not about anything else. And if someone tells me that there is no money in the house, then I can only say that this is a clear attempt to put the Court of Auditors in the barriers. In the end, Parliament is suffering. It is not worthy of a sincere Parliament to take part in this. Therefore, please support this request! It is really just a matter of paying off actual expenses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e21247	The application is sufficiently supported and has been properly submitted and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e21312	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e21333	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I would like to focus on a report that has been discussed here, namely the pension account. The Court of Auditors then drew out a whole record of sins, quite rightly, and pointed out what is still in the hands of everything. A point that is always to be criticized is the transparency of the pension account and the perceptibility that is not given, even at the moment is not at all given, because if someone wants to look at his pension account at the moment, he has no access to it, no access to the old data and no access to the new ones. If I want to understand transparently how the reform has affected, I need a comparison between the old and the new data. This is not understandable for a normal mortal. The Court of Auditors has already called for this report, which has been drawn up for some time now, to be able to access it directly via a link via financial online. - You can't. There is no interactive computer for younger insured persons, so that they can plan once on how karenz times affect them, how part-time periods affect them. If you look at what is said at www.newspensionskon account.at, then you will see that it is called: The new pension account is like a savings book. - Aha. The FAQs are available at www.pensionsversicherung.at: No, the new pension account is not a savings book. – Yes, how is the citizen to know? Citizens are led astray, there is no question of transparency. That it's not a savings book, you can see that when you look into the government program where everything doesn't go mathematically, we'll introduce a solidarity contribution to the recovery in the pension account. – So much on the issue of savings book. We have not yet talked about harmonising pension systems, which are still pressing individual states, nor about the personnel situation in pension insurance. So I can only say that we must not lose sight of what is in the report, and I can only ask you from the Court of Auditors: Stay on it, stay bothered! - We'll stay there too.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e21376	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Mulder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e21398	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to comment briefly on item 7 of the agenda, on the external presence of the Vienna police. It has already been discussed today. In the Court of Auditors report a comparison has been made between Vienna and Munich, Munich with 25 PIs and Vienna with 96 PIs, with Munich having 1.68 million inhabitants and Vienna 1.69 million. The external presence in Munich is 69 percent, while in us it is 43 percent. This survey was carried out in 2008, the report ==References====External links== I think it can be said that the situation is essentially still that way now. There are three areas to be clarified on this point. The first is the staff position. The report states that fewer staff are available than is provided. It is always between Is to distinguish the target and the actual staffing position. There is no change over the years. In the field of foreign service there are far too few officials for the many tasks. Despite many commitments that it has repeatedly given, they have not actually arrived in the PIs, in the state police command. It is all the more gratifying that the Minister of the Interior has today presented a plan of steps to show how the staffing level should be increased. The second area is the area of responsibility, where it is true that in Munich the police in the field of foreign service are exempt from all administrative duties and very many administrative officials work in the background. It's different with us. This is where the police have to do all the administrative tasks, which can take six-and-a-half hours, seven hours, for example in the event of a two-hour redundancie and, if it is a difficult direction. So that means the police are very long bound. Third area: only to the PIs. We have 96, with a lot of need for renovation, namely 70 percent. In a merger – this list has now been discussed over and over again – it is of course also necessary for the PIs to be rehabilitated in order to be able to receive more staff. Most of the work is in Vienna, 50 percent, but only 20 percent of the staff. A concept for possible changes, which is presented, must therefore be those three points: Staff, separate tasks and corresponding PIs are included. Then, I think, it is possible to discuss everything. But in the growing areas, it is also very important that there is no reduction in the number of locations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e21443	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Lettenbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e21464	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. High house! Today, we are also discussing reports that have been back for a long time, with a report, among other things, already being discussed in the Committee on the Court of Auditors in autumn 2012. But it also shows that topics dealt with by the Court of Auditors are somewhat timeless and can be kept up-to-date. Mr Gahr referred earlier to the example of the police departments, which is more up-to-date than ever. Here it is surprising that the spectrum, which the Court of Auditors has often referred to, is also strongly criticized by parts of the opposition in its now famous 599 recommendations that there should be optimizations, synergies, and force. I suspect you're argumenting this way: Reforms, yes, but not with me. As soon as the government makes reforms, there is a loud yelling, and that is not serious. But now, like one of my previous speakers, I want to focus on the topic of pension account. This is also a brand-new issue, as we all know, since just these days again tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of letters go from pension insurance institutions. As you all know, with June 2014 will be for everyone Insurances have the possibility to access their pension account and then finally to know what you have saved so far. At least 5 million pension accounts concern this, and some 2.4 million people have some gaps in their insurance history. This is where the pension insurance institution starts and collects information. They have heard that these are not tens of thousands, not hundreds of thousands, but millions of information, records that need to be collected. That's a huge effort. Not for nothing, one speaks of the biggest system changeover for decades here. It is also important that the Court of Auditors, because the examination has been a few years ago, which continues to be critically accompanied and questioned. Of course, there are problems here, there will also be maladministrations. That's in the nature of the thing. And here I ask the Court of Auditors to keep this issue in mind. But it is important and the aim is that it is understandable to the citizen that it is transparent and that it is, above all, comprehensible as the future pension claim is. A main idea of this pension account is, of course, that you will finally know from June 2014 how much pension you get, if you want to go to retirement regularly, or how much you get if, because you have insurance periods, you plan to go to bed earlier. There's, of course, a main thought, that you can actually, black on white, see how much less pension you get if you want to retire one, two years earlier. That's what you're supposed to do. And then there is the requirement that the government should implement to bring the actual retirement age to the statutory retirement age. And to make it more transparent, we have just created this pension account. Finally, I would like to address all the insured persons who have not yet answered the letter of the PVA and call on them to complete this questionnaire, because it does not take much time at all. It is not a great effort, but can sometimes be worth a lot, because those who leave gaps in their insurance biography may be affected by valuable retirement periods, and no one will want that. That's why my appeal is: Fill out this paper, fill out this document and send it back! – Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e21516	Next speaker: Mr Lausch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e21537	Estimated President! High house! I submit the following request at the outset: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations and bravoruf at the FPÖ.]] It's actually been said anyway: The Court of Auditors reports are no longer the most recent, not the freshest. We're talking about October 2010. Keywords: Foreign service presence of the Vienna police. If you look at this report, you already have to notice one – because today the Federal Minister for the Interior has said that we need more specialists, it is not possible without specialists –: For example, in 2010, the Court of Auditors found that two-thirds of all burglary thefts in Vienna were processed by police executives and not by executive officers of the National Criminal Office specialising in the processing of burglary thefts. The executive officers of the police inspection, however, were missing in strip activity – look! – to prevent the intrusion of crime. So you can conclude: We don't need any more specialists! This, of course, has been very well taken over by the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs by Members of the Government. The most important cop is the one on site, he's here and he's a specialist enough. Faith You're me! That's how it is in practice, that's how it looks! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The second sad issue, which the Court of Auditors has hopefully looked at, concerns the cost of implementing measures. It must be said that the ÖVP has a high level of wear on judicial ministers. That's very unfortunate. And you've got to find out, too. No one has dared attack this hot iron. Public hospitals always have a special remuneration. It's equivalent to a class patient. This is not only the case in the implementation of measures, but, according to the Court of Auditors, it is generally the case. But none of the very many Justice Ministers have dared to do this, to attack it. Now you could bring the headline: Illness costs eat justice budget on! That's right, but that wouldn't be necessary if you were to deal with this, and not always just with the drivers, as if they were the milk cow of the nation. You could save a lot of tax money, but no one trusts in it because it's a little more difficult. And unfortunately, God's feelings change the justice ministers at the ÖVP much too often. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e21625	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Thank you. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e21701	Next speaker: Mrs VOYER (S). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the - Please. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: I believe that the President of the Court of Auditors sees this as different from Mr Lausch!]] [[Calls at the FPÖ.]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e21738	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. High house! I would like to refer to the Court of Auditors' report on a subject which has not yet been addressed today, but as an environmental speaker, I am particularly concerned to comment on it because it simply shows something very nice. This report deals, among other things, with the implementation of the NEC Directive at federal level. In fact, the Court of Auditors has criticised the timely transposition of the directive into national law, but Austria's commitment to establish a national pollution emission reduction programme was only met by over seven years of delay. This is a time span that is just too long, especially when it comes to the environment when it comes to our health. In recent times, the new style here has been very much cited, and we have just gotten from Mag. Kogler belongs: new swing. I think I can speak here on behalf of many new Members: Obviously, the temptation is great to fall back into its usual, old patterns or to resume them. I should like to give a small example of this, namely the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection last Friday. In fact, there has not been a single presentation of the ten agenda items of this Committee, and this is actually very, very bad, especially considering that it is an ambitious objective of Minister Rupprechter to re-establish a pioneering role in environmental policy. It was in this proposal that we tabled, that we were concerned with small things. [[President Ing. Hofer gives the bell sign]] Our goal was to help change something. What I would like to address here is this delay of time, and I would therefore like to plead for it in the sense of many – I am already coming to the end of my speech – to bring the new style back into our head and to address and implement our concerns in all our senses. [[President Ing. Hofer gives the bell sign again]] Actually, I've planned to speak a little more here, but I'll do that in my next speech. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e21788	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Hable. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e21809	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. High house! Appreciate citizens in the gallery and in front of the screens, if you can still keep it up at night-sleeping hour and follow our discussions! Mr Mayer, I would not like to leave one in the room, namely what you have said from the Financial Committee, from the Court of Auditors Committee. we have agreed on a cross-group basis that we should sit down and talk and discuss the financial basis of the Court of Auditors. On the contrary: There have been two verbatim requests from the opposition, which have found the approval of all members of the opposition, namely not in the future, but now to make nails with heads and to ensure adequate funding of the Court of Auditors. This is my invitation to you, especially to the representatives of the ÖVP and SPÖ, not as government representatives, but as Members of Parliament, to assume your responsibility. The Court of Auditors is the most important institution in Parliament to carry out our tasks, so it also needs appropriate funding. We should ensure that these are genuinely cross-group, across all party borders. Let me take another point from the Court of Auditors' report, namely: The Court of Auditors also delivered an opinion on the reform of Party Funding 2012 – a reform where the funding corridor for Federal and State Party funding has not only been limited but has been increased considerably. In addition, a valorization was decided, i.e. a regular adjustment to inflation. That is why we want to stick to this issue. [[President Ing. Hofer gives the bell sign]] We therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] These are not the minus 75...
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e21869	Thank you very much, Mr Commissioner. The application has been submitted. That was a little bit over time. Unfortunately, I can't allow more time. I'm very, very sorry! [[I should like to congratulate Mr Hable, who has left the speaker's desk.]] The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e21939	Next speaker: Mr Hell. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e21960	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! To my previous speaker: I do not think the requests have been rejected, but they have been postponed, stating that there are budgetary negotiations now and that one will try to re-examine the Court of Auditors' budget in this regard. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I have to deal with a specific issue from the Court of Auditors' 2011 audit report, which should also explain the diversity of the Court of Auditors' audit tasks. Long-term cross-border security for high-level infrastructure projects has proved to be increasingly difficult in recent years. The Court of Auditors took a very close look at this issue in 2011. In his report on land conservation for infrastructure projects, he has dealt comprehensively with the planning instruments at the federal and national level of four federal states and has formulated conflict fields and requirements in his report. Ladies and gentlemen! Optimization of transport and energy infrastructure is important for a country such as Austria, for an industrial location Austria. However, when it comes to securing areas for infrastructure projects, it is characterised by constitutional distributions of competence between the federal, state and local authorities. The major energy and transport infrastructure projects are the most affected by the lengthy and expensive planning and approval procedures. As the report also points out, these areas are primarily characterised by the high degree of uncertainty in the area of spatial planning due to conflicts of use and local decisions through long planning horizons and a high duration of implementation. Sixty findings and recommendations have been made by the Court of Auditors in its report, including that the spatial planning laws of the four countries examined contain very different instruments of spatial planning. However, according to the Court of Auditors, the approach to information and coordination on the forthcoming plans of the Federal Government is also worthy of improvement. The last government programme already contained targets on the planning of high-level infrastructure projects. In particular, information and coordination between local authorities should be improved. However, further action will be needed in order to be able to make clear, rapid and also comprehensible decisions for the population.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e22008	Next speaker: Mr. Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e22030	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Lausch, I am surprised by the criticism of the number of ÖVP Justice Ministers. I can remember: A FPÖ Justice Minister was only in office for 25 days. [[Abg. Pendl: Look, hear what's going on there!]] The implementation of measures for mentally abnormal legalbreakers is one of the chapters to be dealt with in plenary today. According to the Court of Auditors' report, the number of mental aberrations contained in the implementation of measures increased Right-wing breakers: from 2005 to 2010 by around 22 percent to 890 people. And the cost of €63 million. This causes 19 percent of the total expenditure of the penalty to be incurred by those 9 percent in the execution of the measures. The reason for this was that because of the lack of capacity, one third of the inmates had to be accommodated in psychiatric hospitals and the costs per day for these inmates there amounted to up to €624, compared to about €162 in the Göllersdorf judicial centre. The most expensive price of all the federal states is charged by Vienna, namely this €624. In all other federal states, tariffs are significantly lower, for example in the Landesnervenklinik Sigmund Freud in Graz, where it was 294,10 €. The setting-up of the Forensic Centre of Asten and the increase of 60 places in the Garsten Court of Justice took account of a substantial demand from the Court of Auditors to create sufficient capacity to accommodate mentally outlawed criminals in accordance with requirements and laws. Overall, the Ministry of Justice has expressed its desire to implement the Court of Auditors' suggestions. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, a comment on the Court of Auditors' activity report on the instruments of impact control. In the demand procedure, the Court of Auditors raised the degree of implementation of the recommendations, and the result shows that around 48 percent of the recommendations were implemented in 2012 and 29 percent of the audited bodies had implementation commitments. This is a total implementation of around 77 percent, ladies and gentlemen, which I think is quite positive. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e22066	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Hackl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e22088	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! When examining the Post & Telekom Immobiliengesellschaft m.b.H. 23 Property sales were examined by the Court of Auditors from a list of 123 Property Exploitations. The proceeds of the 23 properties amounted to approximately €65 million. Due to the lack of management requirements, the employees carried out sales preparations differently: with or without independent evaluation opinions, with or without public auction. Property sales were significantly below the market value. Sub-areas have been completely forgotten during the evaluation. There were generally no remedial clauses. In the case of the exploitation of holiday properties, the operating agreement with post.socially was not comprehensible. Separated managing directors of the real estate company and a buyer of real estates are soon establishing joint real estate companies. So much unprofessionality – not to say: intentional injury to taxpayers – gives this report a certain unique feature. In the Court of Auditors, Mr. Dr. Moser has strongly criticised the various sales transactions. Little ambitious minimum selling prices with too high deposits and non-existent remedial clauses forced the Court of Auditors to pass on the audit report to the public prosecutor. In addition, the Court of Auditors announced a follow-up review in 2013. The real estate company has also tried to buy electricity for 2,170 plants with a supply volume of 81 gigawatt hours per year. This call for tender took place across Europe, but unfortunately there were only two suppliers, and they were identical to the previous electricity suppliers. We have not tried to get other providers on board. If you look at the result of the offer – we're talking about a volume of €24 million here – you can see that the difference was only €20 000. Finally, I would also like to draw your attention to the precarious budgetary situation of the Court of Auditors once again. On the one hand, he gets more and more tasks, on the other hand, the funds will cut him off. That cannot be in the sense of the National Council.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e22125	Next speaker at this late hour: Mrs Mag. Greiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e22146	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The present activity report has an impressive statistics. In addition to the well-known audit activities, the Court of Auditors has carried out additional tasks. What kind of specification do you Are these? – This is a notarial function in connection with the implementation of the 2012 Party Act. This also concerns the media transparency law and also the incompatibility and transparency law. Which competence of the Federal Court of Auditors has been extended? – We have heard it today: the test competence, namely on communities with more than 10,000 inhabitants. In 2015, the number of these municipalities will increase, i.e. when the municipal structural reform will be completed in Styria. There are then 15 municipalities in Styria with more than 10,000 inhabitants. How does a community benefit from an audit? – A audit of the Court of Auditors should be understood as less than control, but rather as consulting. The communities receive a basis and a free expertise in direction-setting decisions, for example in general care. I am thinking about the care of seniors, I am thinking about childcare and also the strengthening of intercommunal cooperation, about the mobility of professionals, especially women. What is the result of auditing of the Court of Auditors for taxpayers, for local citizens? – They support a economical, economic, appropriate municipal administration. In the context of the impact control, the Court of Auditors shall raise the degree of implementation of the recommended measures. We have already heard the gratifying record today: Nearly 80 percent of the measures are implemented at the federal level. It would be desirable to increase this rate of implementation in both urban and national areas. There are still reservations regarding the new audit competence of the Federal Court of Auditors. My home community will also be under your test competence from next year. Mr President of the Court of Auditors, I am confident that it will succeed in increasing the rate of implementation at the other levels, not only at the federal level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e22189	Mr Mag. Hauser, a mayor, has made his speech next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e22210	Estimated President! Ladies and gentlemen at nocturnal time! First of all, I would like to thank the Federal Court of Auditors – President Moser and his team – for the excellent and excellent reports. Each report is for itself a standard work for a politician who produces an incredible amount of material for every political event and, of course, also brings a lot to the audited companies. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Strolz.]] Now to the municipal exams: There are ongoing discussions. Mr Gahr, if you get out of here today and say how good it is and how classic it is that now all the communities can be examined in Tyrol too, I would like to remind you that this was a five-year struggle in the Tiroler Landtag – against the ÖVP and the SPÖ, which were vehemently opposed to the fact that all communities can be examined. [[Abg. Gahr: And who decided?]] I don't understand at all! We cannot, however, discuss whether companies in which the public hand is perhaps 50 percent or even less involved can be examined if we are not even willing to have companies such as communities which are 100% public-owned. This is a matter of course for me, and as the mayor of my home community, I can only point out that I am incredibly happy about every examination of a control body, because trust is good, but control is better, and every test report still offers suggestions on how to improve. It is also clear that: The possibility of being tested alone is already a matter of caution. In this way it is incomprehensible to me why not all communities – whether with more or with less than 10,000 inhabitants – can be tested anyway. That would be the standard for me anyway, that you should do this in principle, because each exam will bring a further development. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. May. Loacker.]] Where do we have problems? – There are problems with distributed companies, including in the municipal area. I have to say that in my home community, we have not allocated anything or we have foreign currency credits, nor do we have any liability. - We don't have anything. We're having a hard time. How many rural Tyrolean communities do we have a hard time. Now the police have also been taken over by us, and now we have to take over this competence as well. [[Oh-noise of the Abg. Pendl.]] Although this is not a major matter, we do, of course, make the rooms available free of charge, but security is also a question of the federal government, Mr Pendl, and so far the federal government has taken over the costs for the premises of the executive. Now, even though it is difficult to do so, the communities are holding it. We are still going to do that now, but we have to break our minds about how we are going to get to the distributed companies that need to be examined, because the municipal council has no chance of checking out distributed companies or even taking into account the books. There we will and there we are still required. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Finally, I would like to mention that we – and we are proud of it – have caused us to extend the term of office of the President of the Court of Auditors to twelve years in Tyrol. The independence of the auditors is anyway the most important thing, as it used to be. A re-order only results in one, namely the need to report the relevant test reports in order to be re-ordered. Therefore, it is one of the most important things that the test organs that test are completely independent and that a re-order is not possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e22272	Before the President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors speaks, our honourable colleague, Mr Pendl, is still speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e22293	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Very soon: Interestingly, you can follow here for years: If it is just pleasant, Mr Hauser, then we are quoting the Court of Auditors. Then everything's done. Look at all of you, how long the Court of Auditors has been pointing to improving efficiency, as far as police inspections – even called “guardrooms” – and Gendarmerieposten are concerned! This is what we have been discussing in the morning. I would like to address the issue of enforcement and, in particular, the implementation of measures – the former Minister of Justice is also sitting here – because the Court of Auditors is constantly addressing this issue. [[President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:]] If we look at the implementation of the measure, we see that at § 21 para. 1 are currently relatively stable. At § 21 para. 2 we explode formally. At § 22, we can say that we have departments for withdrawal in all institutions, and § 23 is dead right – I think there is only one in all of Austria. I have long asked – and I now appeal to the coalition partner – that is what we are looking at with the implementation of measures! I think this one belongs completely new, completely new, because otherwise it will not bring us anything. In one section, we do not know what to do, because we are going to explode formally, and the other two are actually dead right. Before I finish my short post, another thing: I've never had anything against control, but it's not done if we block ourselves and don't turn off controls between them. I do not mind the Court of Auditors' examinations, but then we do not need to carry out the test or the district headquarters. Every time they come, they block all the parish officials for a few days. That is what the Court of Auditors should do. If we are talking about administrative simplification, when we are talking about improving efficiency, we should also confess that we are bringing together an efficient, comprehensible solution here – and not that one comes one by one. . I think that is in your sense, too, Mr President Moser. I would therefore ask that action be taken on this issue. It will then follow a political discussion as we will decide.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e22344	The next speaker is the President of the Court of Auditors. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e22366	Mr President. High house! I would like to start by thanking all of you for the positive emphasis on the work of the Court of Auditors' staff at this very late night. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Always!]] I believe that the 2013 activity report shows that this praise is justified for the staff of the Court of Auditors. In 2013, the Court of Auditors submitted 56 reports to the Federal Government, 86 reports to the countries and 26 reports to the municipalities and associations. In addition, the Court of Auditors has given particular attention to the general government budget responsibility or to the commitment of the financial sector by presenting more than 22 cross-sectional audits to the House in 2013. Considering the federal accounts accounts – also a product of the Court of Auditors – it shows within the framework of the budget implementation that, in order to achieve the objective of a structurally balanced budget, structural measures must be implemented at all levels – at federal, national and local level. It is important in this context that the objective, namely the objective set out in § 17 of the Federal Budget Act, is to ensure that the calculation of the financial impact of corrective measures is actually comprehensible. However, as part of the review, it has shown that this quota has unfortunately fallen below 50 percent of the comprehensible financial impact. In 2010, the quota was still 68 percent. This shows that if you want to act on a sustainable basis, you need to know what financial consequences are associated with a legislative project. This is also the view of the Court of Auditors' municipal audit. This extension was in discussion for a long time. The Court of Auditors can now examine of the 2 356 municipalities 74. 49 of them have between 10 000 and 20 000 inhabitants. More than half of these have already been tested. In particular, the municipal cross section published by the Court of Auditors in 2013 shows how important it is that auditing is carried out in the municipal area by audit courts, because the audits carried out show that the accountancy of the municipalities has serious shortcomings in terms of the clarity and comparability that the accounting units do not provide complete, sufficient information on the financial situation of the municipalities. Mr Hauser referred to the problem of a great deal of outsourcedness, in which the Local council often does not know what is actually happening in outsourced areas. The fact that we need clarity in this area that something needs to be done in the area of local authorities is also evident when looking at the development of investment. For example, the audit of eight municipalities has shown that the vast majority of these municipalities have had a positive financial peak – that is, the funds needed to carry out investments – but that all the municipalities we have examined have declined their investments, or in those areas in which they have invested, this was due to financial debt. This shows that the communities need more clarity. We need to see that the communities are actually able to fulfil their task in the context of general care. We need an accounting system, which also allows you to control it. It can also be seen, however, that in the field of wastewater supply by the eight municipalities we have examined in the context of the municipal cross-section, five municipalities have not planned surpluses in the context of a deposit for future investments, but have used these surpluses for the general budget, which is contrary to the knowledge of the Constitutional Court and, as a result, is the collection of a tax without a legal basis. There should also be greater transparency in the area of fees in order to ensure that the economic location is safeguarded. In the field of party law, the media transparency law, I would just like to point out that although the Court of Auditors reports should be on it, it is not the Court of Auditors in it. The activity which the Court of Auditors can perform under the Party Act and the Media Transparency Act is essentially the acceptance, management and publication of the information contained. In this case, however, he has no original possibility of testing with regard to completeness and accuracy. I would also like to mention that the Court of Auditors was awarded an international prize in 2013 at a congress held in Beijing. On the one hand, the reasons for this award were that the Court of Auditors has carried out an intensive reform programme for the comprehensive modernisation of audit methodology and audit procedures. Other reasons were that the Court of Auditors showed extraordinary international commitment as well as a proactive role at European Union level in the reform of EU control architecture. I therefore mention this because this has been done by the employees of the Court of Auditors and their extraordinary achievements have also been internationally recognized. That is why I would like to express my warmest thanks to the staff of the Court of Auditors. [[General condolences.]] Finally, I would like to mention that on today's agenda there are also two reports which have been sent to the House a long time ago. The 14 audit results in these reports show that we need reform, that we have optimising potential for efficient use of resources. An example - you have mentioned this, Mr Pendl - is the external presence or the examination we have carried out on this issue. This shows that more police on the street – and I mention that extra, it is not about saving the Court of Auditors, but it is about the police being used where their strength lies, namely in executive foreign service – means more security. This has also shown the comparison of Vienna and Munich. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Wheeler.]] There are 96 police inspections in Vienna that carry out party traffic. 25 police inspections are in Munich – with twice as large a catchment area. Due to the dense service structure, 23 percent of staff in Vienna are in charge of the service. In Munich it was 16 percent. Where did this lead? – Let’s look at the key figures! Foreign Service presence in Vienna – which Mrs Becher mentioned – is 43 percent; in Munich: 68.6 percent. What does the education rate look like? – In Munich it was 59.8%, in Vienna it was 28.1 percent. Speaking of police inspections and at the same time asking whether the police inspections are accepted by the parties, it has been shown that between 6 p.m. and 6 p.m. on average only five parties visited the police inspections, and 69 percent of them between 6 p.m. and 6 p.m. It is also apparent that 61 of these 96 police inspections needed urgent reorganisation or expansion. 77 police inspections were not disabled. The question therefore arises: If we invest in the police inspections, do we secure the structures, or do we give the money for the executive foreign service, for the fight against crime, and at the same time ensure that the police go to the citizen and are not stopped by the citizen to go to the police? One point I would like to mention is that the reform carried out by the Federal Minister is in line with the Court of Auditors' recommendations. I also hope that this example will be followed in many other areas by those reforms that are urgently needed, because with scarceer resources, we must ensure that the funds are used efficiently. It is not only about sparingness, it is also about efficiency as well as that we can actually fulfil the general provisions to which we have committed ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e22421	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur obviously does not want a final word. We shall therefore proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 7: Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of this report III-4 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand for his attention to be a sign. The request was adopted unanimously. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 8: Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of this report III-5 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand for his attention to be a sign. – This is also unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 9: Request by the Committee of the Regions to take note of this report III-33 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for their attention to be a sign. – This is also unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. Lugar, colleagues on ‘Required financial resources for the Court of Auditors’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Zanger, colleagues, on budgetary increase and support for administrative activities in the field of § 1 para. 3 BVG Media Cooperation and Media Funding for the Court of Auditors. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Hable, colleagues, on the reduction of the corridor set out in the Party Law for the promotion of the party of the federal and the countries. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[23:12:53]] 10. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on the outcome of its collection of average incomes as well as the additional benefits for pensions for companies and institutions in the field of the public economy of the Federal Republic of Germany in 2011 and 2012 (III-31/39 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e22538	We're on our way to the 10th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Gessl-Ranftl has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e22565	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! In my speech, I refer to the women's share in the management of federal institutions and companies. The Court of Auditors clearly shows that there are very positive developments for women in the days of bosses. It is gratifying that the proportion of women in the board of public businesses shows a 4 percent increase compared to 2009 and a 5.1 percent increase in supervisory councils. It is very likely that the quota scale plan will work in public enterprises. Management.Report.2014, published last week by AK Wien, confirmed that every third post is already occupied by a woman. We are on the right path here, but I am also aware that there is still a lot of work ahead of us, as the numbers of women in the private sector's chief days are extremely sobering, even frustrating. There is an acute need for action, and I expect measures to be taken in the private sector to make our economy more female, measures to ensure that there will be more mixed management teams in the future, as already demonstrated successfully in many European countries. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e22601	Next speaker: Mr. Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e22623	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I too have some positive comments to make. On the one hand, between 2010 and 2012, the average income of the board members and the managing director is slightly lower than the income increase of the employees of 9.1 percent. In the previous period, the ratio was still reversed: a plus of 19.6 percent of board members and 10.4 percent of employees. It is important for me that the income of employees increases to the same extent as that of the managers, because the success of companies depends on the management and the employees. I also see, as Mr Gessl-Ranftl, a positive development in women. It has already been mentioned that in 2010 the female managers reached 64 percent of their male colleagues' averages, today it is 81.3 percent. So important steps in the right direction. Ladies and gentlemen! Very critical are the top salaries in the close-to-state establishments. It is not understandable if these are more than three times the reference of the Federal Chancellor. And if you look at the ratio of income between the board members or directors and employees, you can see the following: In 2012, members of the board earned between 2.2 times and 6.7 times as much as their employees. The average was 3.7 times in 2012. Interesting for this is a Swiss People's Decision. In Switzerland, the population leaned on a reduction in the incomes of members of the board of directors to the 12-fold of Staff. In Austria, we have a value of 6.7. The point of view of the Swiss is also another question. Ladies and gentlemen! ==References====External links== In December 2013, FPÖ writes that close-to-state enterprises are not known to work efficiently and efficiently. I don't like old clichés. Also in the close-to-state businesses, outstanding employees work, who are performance-oriented, efficient and highly committed for their companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e22674	Next speaker: Mr Zanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e22695	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! It would, of course, be interesting if one could really talk about the income report, because there are a few things to discuss, such as the strong increases in managerial remuneration. I call you just a few highlights of these increases compared to 2010: ÖIAG: from € 700 000 per managing director to € 969,000; Local credit: from 213 000 € to 507 000 € per person; Federal Forest: from € 264,000 to € 399 000. Or a year later, 2011 to 2012: FACULTAS: from € 307 000 to € 458 000 per year; Association AG: from € 695 000 to € 819 000. All of this could be questioned, and so do we. Interesting is the following: It must be assumed that there are also performance-oriented components for directors or board members. For me, it would be exciting to know: What are the objectives of such a board of directors, and in what form is that honoured? That means: What is the composition of basic and performance-oriented components? This is perhaps the way to go about it and shudder about it, but not discuss it rationally. In this context, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would like to introduce a little steiric charm here, since it fits in with: public income. You know, the Styria is promised to have implemented such a great structural reform in the communities, which looks so as to pass over the heads of the population, to unite communities without questioning: Does that want the people or does it not want it? They're supposed to save so much. Interesting: ‘Validity’ has not yet been defined. What is meant to look out in concrete terms doesn't know or is said. But in 2013 from 2014, a juicy increase was decided for the public officials, i.e. mayor, vice-bourgeois and municipal cashiers. On average, every mayor earns €1,000 per month from 2014. You have to imagine this: 1 000 € per month more. This is roughly a 40 percent wage increase per year. That's one. Once again, the population is sold for stupid. And on the other hand, they don't say what you save yourself by the community combination. This accounts for €7 million to €10 million per year for the party guests of red and black. That's something where the population is made up of an X for a U. I can't believe what's happening.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e22768	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Zanger is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e22814	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Schwentner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e22837	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would also like to thank and acknowledge my previous speakers. Thank you also for the extensive and very informative report of the Court of Auditors on the income report. All the more so, I would like the discussion of the Court of Auditors' reports not to become a late evening ritual, just as I experience – I am not a permanent member of the Court of Auditors Committee, but at least a permanent member of this Assembly – that there is a commitment and agreement that we anchor the Court of Auditors' reports on the agenda in such a way that we discuss them earlier. This is one of the Parliament's most immediate tasks, and it should be time to discuss this earlier. [[Congratulations with the Greens as well as with representatives of FPÖ, NEOS and Team Stronach.]] – If there is agreement on this, then we should do so. I would now like to return to a myth which has already been discussed in the Committee, namely what is happening to women in the supervisory councils. Mrs Colleague, it is really nice that this share has increased – it has only increased by 1 per cent each, both in the Supervisory Boards and in the Boards – but this has very little to do with the fact that there is a level plan decided by the Minister and the Minister of Economic Affairs during the last legislative period. This is only about 55 companies and not the whole 416 companies that the Court of Auditors is examining. And of these 55 companies, 46 are entirely owned by the federal government, and it would be even more embarrassing if we did not even manage to achieve a corresponding female quota. But yes, we can't even make it there. This regulation, which was set at the time – I think it was two or three years ago – was so unambitionated that we achieved the target we set for 2013, which is the 25 percent, which is not really much. And 35 percent of women by 2018 will hopefully also be reachable at least in these 55 companies. I wish you more. We have seen – and this also shows today’s “profile” story about the private sector – that we are still far away from reaching an adequate proportion of women in supervisory councils and boards both in state-based businesses and in the private sector. And this has a lot to do with the framework conditions, with the fact that there is still no appropriate environment for women. All this is very beautiful in this “profile” article today. To this end, I also regret that almost 100 companies from the 416 companies have not even managed to provide gender specific data. This is something I would like to express here, because these nearly 100 companies should really be named, and we should get them up on the toes. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A second story that is annoying when you listen to your report in times like this one, Hypo and so on, is that there are still a number of board managers – in this case manager; I for nothing – who deserve far more than what the Federal Chancellor gets, partly up to three times. Today, we have introduced a change in the tax-change law, namely a tax measure, which means that income from managers who are above the double salary of the Federal Chancellor – we would have liked less – can no longer be deducted. This is at least a measure that is likely to be taken by those who deserve far too much in close-to-state companies. Nevertheless, this is an area – in order to get back to what there are voluntary measures – where there are already regulations, namely the stencil regulation, which would require a number of stencils, which would simply be complied with and where it would be our task to examine that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e22895	The next item is the speech by Mr Kucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e22916	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! The present Court of Auditors report is also an important basis for discussion on issues of income justice, the fair participation of employees in corporate profits and also on issues of transparency. In 2011, a total of 65 managers of companies and institutions with federal participation received income above the German Chancellor's reference. In 2012, this group of persons was reduced to 53 board members or managing director. There was a gratifying development in the fair remuneration of employees. From 2007 to 2010, the board of directors and managing directors received significantly higher salary increases than the employees. In the reporting period up to 2012, the first increase in income of the Boards and Managing Directors was lower than the salary increases of employees with 9.1 percent. At the political level, many important decisions have been taken here in the House, including in recent hours, to increase the level of income justice. I only recall today's decision to remove the tax privileges for top managers and corporations, the extension of the solidarity contribution for top earners with income over €150 000. And a very important step was of course also the Public Corporate Governance Code for Austria, initiated by Josef Ostermayer, which brings more transparency into corporate governance and supervision, prohibits double remuneration and also introduces clear pay limits. Much has already been achieved on the question of income justice. Much is still to be done and is still in front of us. One of the most important points, of course, is the fight against male-female pay shears. That's a common mission to all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e22953	The next item is the speech by Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e22975	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) A lot has already been said about the income report. In short: It is gratifying that the proportion of women in the boards and supervisory boards has increased slightly. Furthermore, the gap between women's and men's salaries was reduced. The sheer of income between the managing directors and the employees was reduced, and in the case of new contracts there was a reduction down. The Court of Auditors has said critically that there are still administrative privileges in the area of the financial sector, such as the Austrian National Bank, the Hypo Alpe-Adria, the Com­munal Credit. Another area is ÖBB, where manager salaries have increased by 7 percent, but employees' salaries are only 2.7 percent. Especially at Rail Cargo, the Court of Auditors has critically noted that salaries have increased exorbitantly. Overall, the Court of Auditors calls that it is not sufficient to disclose the salaries, but that it needs clear criteria according to performance, quality and credit quality for the payment of so-called bonuses payments. The goal for the future must be – we should take this from this rather critical income report – that we balance existing and unexplainable improvements of men to women as far as possible. My previous speaker has already found this out. Furthermore, we need more transparency as a whole. This is the best recipe and the best instrument for a fair and just reward. Overall, I believe, it is a question of having a good example in our federal companies when it comes to income justice and the distribution of leadership positions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e23011	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e23033	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Thanks to the excellent work done by the Court of Auditors, it has become striking that in one of the outsourced public enterprises, namely the ÖBB, over-proportionally high remunerations were made to the Supervisory Board and also over-proportionally high income changes for the Executive Board, for which the Managing Directors were acting, in the period 2009 to 2011 and 2012, namely, an increase of 23 percent, while employees were only able to look forward to an increase of 8.4 percent. In the statements, the President of the Court of Auditors has made quite a point of considering: What society, what kind of society is that? And: What did the owner give his Supervisory Board members or directors to tasks and goals? That's exactly what I'm questioning today: What has the owner, the Republic or the Ministry given as a task, for example, of the ÖBB infrastructure, if, on the one hand, you are wonderfully “handlet” billions of projects, but at the same time you are unable to properly maintain regional railways such as in the Mühlviertel, in Tirol or in Styria? Or: What tasks and For example, the owner has given the Board of Directors and Supervisory Boards in ÖBB-Personenverkehr AG and in ÖBB-Technische Service-GmbH if there are semi-repaired trains with the old faults they had in the repair book before sending them to the workshop, so if you return the trains in the form and contribute to the uncertainty of passengers and, above all, to the service staff, the operating staff? And the third thing I ask myself in principle: What have owners and owners given to the Supervisory Board and, subsequently, to the Executive Board as a goal, if one speaks specifically to the business staff, the pension scheme, the All the more supported by the Federal Chancellery if all those who would have been in a private company had had their allowances. But only in the case of the ÖBB the operators are doing outside and at the same time the management accounts for 23 percent more salary? I do not explain these requirements to the Supervisory Board and to the management. We will, however, subsequently examine this in detail thanks to the excellent work done by the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e23081	The next item is the speech by Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e23102	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm allowed to do it very briefly, too. It is gratifying if the speakers of all political groups, including the opposition, can list examples of what has been implemented at government level. Not only the 80 percent of the Court's proposals can be seen, but also many things in detail. It's true, it's often not the huge sums, but if you look at this a little more critical, you can see how almost restructurings have been carried out in all the ministries in the sections, an office of the Federal Government has been created and that there are a lot of partial steps here. Mr Kucher has already said and stressed that the Corporate Governance Code, drawn up by Secretary of State Ostermayer, which has been in force since 2012, makes differences between those companies which compete in the public sector, if one wants to, can pay marketable salaries, and those who are present in the “protected area” – under quotation marks – without competition, limited to a ceiling of the salary of a manager or the salary level of a section manager. This code also states that double remunerations are no longer possible with the simultaneous management function of a distributed GmbH. So these are many, many things that have been used here at the request of the Court of Auditors for the better, including at the ÖBB-Holding, to say something good, Mr Deimek. There, too, three were reduced to two boards. Many measures have therefore been implemented. What is still important to me are two points that have been decided today – and that has already been said – I would like to stress them once again: This is the abolition of the privileges for high managers and the solidarity of top earners, which has been extended indefinitely. The tax advantage of Golden Handshakes was also abolished. So you can see a lot of measures that have been taken by you. Critics are being dealt with, further measures are being implemented step by step; not all at once – that may be true – but that should be the case. One last one to the end. Mr Zanger, on the other hand, we are actually trying – I cannot interfere with what has been put together in Styria – but it is also a clear recommendation from the Court of Auditors that such steps are being taken and that unconventional action is being taken because there are just savings measures. If in these communities there are indeed such increases in mayor's salary by 40 percent, by 1 000 € per month, I can only say: Compare this once Austria wide! In Vorarlberg there are hardly any smaller municipalities in which the mayor still has less than €4,000. So 40 percent, 1 000 € – you just have to call the number. If you call it, you can talk about it! But don't say, there's going to be put together, structural measures are being taken, and then everything is bad talking about what's being done. This is not serious and is not worthy of you. I have to tell you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] And one last point to Mr Kogler – now he's back. I would like to say something to Mr Kogler because he is always standing out here, I think he is really a competent man in many areas, where I can also sign many things he says. I am once again surprised by his appearances, including at the last meeting of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, that he is so nonchalant that he is ‘driving’. This colleague Kogler made a press conference immediately before the last Court of Auditors meeting and, together with his successor as committee chairman, Gabriela Moser, noted the following. I quote from the press release of the APA to the press conference: ‘If this report had been discussed in the Committee on Thursday, it would have been possible to invite ‘responsible persons’ such as former National Bank Chief Klaus Liebscher (and now’s Chief of Hypo Supervisory Board) – that is already obsolete – to the committee’s task force and Fimbag chief, said Moser.’ [[Abg. Wöger: What is it?]] “But with the examination of reports from 2010, today’s committee is only running a ‘Soft programme’, according to the Members.” – So far, so good. There you stand with your eyes, honest, quiet and good. [[Abg. Wöginger: We don't understand him!]] [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] - The final sentence is still coming. [[Abg. Wöginger: It's out!]] [[Abg. Brosz: What do you want to tell us now?]] – Honestly, sitting and good, colleague Kogler. But you know very well that this procedure has been settled with your committee chairman, Mrs Gabi Moser, until July. So here, as if this were a robbery, one would have refused the load of information people, is simply not right, and, I think, your unworthy too. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Brosz.]] You don't need to play your political reputation like that. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e23197	The President of the Court of Auditors has also spoken. Please, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e23229	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This report, which is on the agenda, will be sent to you by the Court of Auditors every two years in accordance with Article 121(1). 4 B-VG presented. It includes all the companies of the Federal Government subject to the control of the Court of Auditors, at the same time including all persons who have been in a relationship with those undertakings in the respective reporting years. These are a total of 416 companies, 1 502 Supervisory Board members, 691 members of the Executive Board and 212 215 employees. The average income of the managing directors was €181 300 in 2012, the highest income of the management was €866 400 in 2012. It was reported by Austrian Post AG. 53 persons in 22 companies have received a higher average income than the German Chancellor, whose income is at € 285 600. The relationship of salaries between management and employees above the average of all sectors was on average – this has already been mentioned – the 3.7-fold. At Österreichische Post AG, the relation was in the 23.9-fold, with the Austrian National Bank subsidiary IG Immobilien Invest Gmbh at the 23.2-fold. If we look at this report, we also find some conspicuousness that would give rise to action, for example, the high incomes of employees. Two employees of the Austrian Federal Forest Beteiligungs Gmbh had an average income of 187 630 €. If one considers a further notableness, high salary of the board despite fewer employees, ÖIAG was at 15.90 full-time employees the income of the management at 504 832 €, at municipal credit Finanz AG at 16.40 full-time employees at 456 621 € or at Bundestheater-Holding GmbH at 15.48 € employees at 261 689 €. There were also strong increases, for example at FACULTAS Verlags- und Buchhandels AG, where income increased from 2011 to 2012 from 150,975 € to 458,565 €. There were also high Supervisory Board charges, for example at Hypo Alpe-Adria, where four persons received an average of €45 013. We had high management positions at Österreichische Post AG, where the completion amounted to €808 907, or also high employees, for example at Austro Control, 18 employees received an average of €238 905, or high pension benefits at VERBUND Thermal Power GmbH, which is €149 964, or at the Austrian National Bank, where 1 315 employees on average received €86 794 in pension. In this context, Mr Elmar Mayerbehavior mentioned that the Bundes-Public Corporate Governance Code has also introduced substantial innovations in this area on the basis of the Court of Auditors' recommendations. However, the present income report and the already quoted conspicuousness show that, for reasons of transparency and good governance, it would be necessary, in particular, to replace the target provisions laid down in the Public Corporate Governance Code with the requirements of the requirements and at the same time to disclose the criteria for the award of variable reference components and to focus on the sustainability of the criteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e23283	Thank you, Mr President. No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur did not wish to conclude. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure to take note of this report III-31. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Zanger, colleagues, on the breakdown of basic salary and on the performance-oriented components in the income report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. The agenda is exhausted. [[23:44:08]] Reading of a part of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e23343	I have a written request from 20 Members to read the proposed version of the Official Protocol on Agenda items 3 to 6 so that these parts are deemed approved at the end of the sitting. I will therefore proceed in this way and read the corresponding parts of the Official Protocol: 'In response to the President's proposal to negotiate Agenda items 2 and 3, 4 and 5, there is no objection. TO point 3: Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (24 of the Supplements): The Federal Act, which amends the Income Tax Act 1988, the Corporate Tax Act 1988, the Stability Tax Act, the Reform Tax Act, the Income Tax Act 1994, the Fee Tax Act 1957, the Tax Act 1957, the Insurance Tax Act 1953, the Car tax Act 1992, the Flight Tax Act, the Standard Tax Law 1991, the Alcohol Tax Act, the Sparkling Tax Act 1995, the Tobacco Tax Act 1995, the Gambling Act 1995, the German Tax Code, the Tax Code, the Tax Code 2010, the Financial Penal Code, the Federal Financial Law, the Banking Act, the Stock Exchange Act 1989, the Insurance Supervisory Act, the GmbH Act, the Notarial Tax Act, the Law, the Company Code and the Payment Services Act, and Section VIII of the Federal Act BGBl. No. 325/1986 is repealed (Impendance Amendment Act 2014 – AbgÄG 2014) and on amendments 164/A(E) by Dr Kathrin Nachbaur, colleagues on the stability levy, 165/A(E) by Dr Kathrin Nachbaur, colleagues on the Economic Protection Pact, 205/A(E) by Mr Mag. Nikolaus Alm, colleagues with regard to the new regulation of the benefit-free contribution in the Income Tax Act, and 206/A(E) of Deputies Mag. Nikolaus Alm, colleagues concerning the establishment of a “Zero” GmbH (31 of the supplements) Mr Willi, colleagues, tabled the referral request for an annex III/1. Deputies Dr. Nachbaur, Mag. Alm, ladies and gentlemen, bring in the motion for a resolution Supplement 3/1 EA. Deputies Mag. Alm, ladies and gentlemen, bring in the motion for a resolution Supplement 3/2 EA. Member of the MMag. DDr. Fuchs, ladies and gentlemen, put the amendment to Supplement 3/3. Deputies Mag. Zakostelsky, Krainer, colleagues and others are tabling the amendment Supplement 3/4, which is explained in the key points. The President shall be appointed by the President in accordance with paragraph 53. 4 GOG the reproduction and distribution. Deputies Ing. Mr Lugar, ladies and gentlemen, put the amendment to Supplement 3/5. Deputies Mag. Dr Strolz, Dr. Nachbaur, Members of Parliament, tabled the motion for a resolution Supplement 3/6 EA. Deputies Mag. Dr Strolz, ladies and gentlemen, put to the motion for a resolution Supplement 3/7 EA. Deputies Mag. Dr Strolz, ladies and gentlemen, put to the motion for a resolution Supplement 3/8 EA. Member of the MMag. DDr. Fuchs, ladies and gentlemen, put the amendment to Supplement 3/9. At 16.37 p.m., the debate on the implementation of the urgent question, Supplement D. At 18.58 continue negotiations on agenda items 2 and 3. Mr Köchl, fellow Members, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 3/10 EA). Mr Pock, ladies and gentlemen, tabled the amendment to Supplement 3/11. Member of the MMag. DDr. Fuchs, ladies and gentlemen, put the amendment to Supplement 3/12. Deputies Mag. Kogler, ladies and gentlemen, put the amendment to Supplement 3/13. Member of the MMag. DDr. Fuchs, ladies and gentlemen, put the amendment to Supplement 3/14. Mr Willi, colleagues, tabled the amendment to Supplement 3/15. Member of the MMag. DDr. Fuchs, ladies and gentlemen, put the amendment to Supplement 3/16. The President shall relocate in accordance with § 65 para. The vote on agenda items 2 and 3 after the vote on agenda items 4 and 5. TO point 4: Report of the Scientific Committee on the Government Template (23 of the Supplements): Agreement in accordance with Art. 15a B-VG between the Federal Government and the State of Upper Austria on the establishment and operation of a Faculty of Medicine and the establishment of the study of human medicine at the University of Linz (34 of the Supplements) To-do point 5: Report and request of the Scientific Committee on a Federal Law amending the University Law 2002 (35 of Supplements) Votes: To TO point 4: The conclusion of the agreement in accordance with Art. 15a B-VG is approved by a majority in 34 of the supplements in accordance with the Committee's request. To TO point 5: The draft law will be adopted by a majority in the second and third readings, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 35 of the Supplements. Implementing the provisions of § 65 para. 1 GOG put the vote on TO points 2 and 3: To TO point 3: The referral request Annex III/1 is rejected. The amendment Annex 3/3 is rejected. The amendment Annex 3/5 is rejected. The amendment Annex 3/9 is rejected. The amendment Annex 3/11 is rejected. The amendment Annex 3/12 is rejected. The amendment Annex 3/13 is rejected. The amendment Annex 3/14 is rejected. The amendment Annex 3/15 is rejected. The amendment Annex 3/16 is rejected. The draft law, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 31 of the Supplements, will be adopted by a majority vote in the second and third reading, taking into account the amendment amendment. The motion for a resolution, Supplement 3/1 EA, is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution, Supplement 3/2 EA, is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution, Supplement 3/6 EA, is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution, Supplement 3/7 EA, is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution, Supplement 3/8 EA, is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution, Supplement 3/10 EA, is hereby rejected. To point 6: Report of the Scientific Committee on the Government Template (25 of the Supplements): Federal Act amending the Federal Law on the University of Further Education Krems (DUK Act 2004) (36 of the Supplements) The vote will take place at The draft law is adopted by a majority in the second and third readings, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 36 of the Supplements. There is a desire according to § 51 para. 6 GOG by 20 Members to read the Official Protocol on Agenda items 3 to 6 (Annex III-VI/1).’ Are there any objections to this version or the contents of those parts of the Official Protocol? - That's not the case. These parts of the Official Protocol are therefore applicable in accordance with section 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure as approved at the end of this sitting. [[23:52:05]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00012_d8e23576	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 232/A(E) to 261/A have been tabled at today's meeting. Questions 730/J to 788/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 23.53 p.m., immediately following this meeting. This meeting is closed.
