ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e7802	I'll open the 39. Meeting of the National Council. [[10:02:40]] Meeting of the National Council at an extraordinary meeting
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e7827	The President of the Federal Republic of Germany has the National Council with a resolution of 20. In accordance with Article 28(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2014, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with Article 28(2) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act on the basis of a request from a third of the members of the National Council for an extraordinary meeting of the XXV. This is the first time we have been able to reach agreement on this subject. The official protocols of the 36. Meeting of 9. ==References====External links== Meeting of 10. Ju­li 2014 as well as the unreaded parts of the Official Protocol of 38. Meeting of 10. In July 2014, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. Deputies of Spindelberger, Grillitsch, Doppler, Jannach, Dr. Kassinger, Mag. Jarmer and Dr. Franz. [[10:03:38]] Angelobung
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e7859	The Federal Electoral Authority has issued a notice that Ms. Doris Bures was re-appointed in accordance with § 111 of the National Council's Rules of Procedure after leaving her office. Mr. Walter Schopf was appointed President of the National Council for Mag. Barbara Prammer to the National Council. As the electorate is already present and the members of the House are present, I will immediately make their fishing observation. After reading the vow formula and by calling for a name by the scribe, the new ambassadors will have to do their fishing with the words “I promise”. I now ask the author, Mrs Lueger, to read the vow formula and to call for the name.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e7905	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.” By calling for a name by the writer Lueger, Deputies Doris Bures and Walter Schopf make their fishing observation with the words “I praise”.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e7942	I warmly welcome the new Members in our midst. [[General condolences.]] [[10:05:40]] The term of office shall be replaced by the
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e7971	Furthermore, the Electoral Authority, the Ministry of the Interior, informs Dr. Michael Spindelegger that, due to his retirement from the Federal Government, he has agreed to the adoption of his original National Council mandate in accordance with § 111 para. 1 National Council election order has not been adopted. This mandate is thus transferred to the MP to the National Council Dr. Franz-Joseph Huainigg. [[10:05:42]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e8004	The following letter was received from the Federal Chancellor: Mr President, I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council. I have the honour to inform myself that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with his resolution of 1 January 1988, is the President of the Federal Republic of Germany. In September 2014, GZ S210.010/2-BEV/14, in accordance with Art. 74 para. 3 Federal Constitutional Act the Federal Minister for Finance Deputy Chancellor Dr. Michael Spindelegger, the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology Doris Bures and the Federal Minister for Health Alois Stöger, diplômé, and in accordance with Art. 74 para. 3 in conjunction with Art. 78 para. 2 Federal Constitutional Act the State Secretary at the Federal Ministry of Finance Mag. Sonja Steßl and Mag. Jochen Danninger's gone from Amte. At the same time, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, on my proposal in accordance with the manner. In paragraph 70, point (b) is replaced by the following: 1 Federal Constitutional Act appointed the Federal Minister for Science, Research and Economics Dr. Reinhold Mitterlehner as Vice Chancellor, Alois Stöger, diplômé, Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology, Dr. Johann Georg Schelling as Federal Minister for Finance and Dr. Sabine Oberhauser as Federal Minister for Health. In addition, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany has, in accordance with Art. In paragraph 70, point (b) is replaced by the following: 1 in conjunction with Art. 78 para. 2 Federal Constitutional Act Mag. Sonja Steßl appointed the State Secretary and attached her to the Federal Chancellor for support in the management and parliamentary representation and appointed Dr. Harald Mahrer as the State Secretary and attached him to the Federal Minister for Science, Research and Economy for support in the management and parliamentary representation.” I use this opportunity to express a warm word of thanks and recognition for their activities in the service of the Republic of Austria, ladies and gentlemen, the exodus members of the Federal Government and the retired State Secretary. Thank you very much. [[General condolences.]] I wish all the new members of the Federal Government and the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State the best success for her work. [[10:08:19]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e8110	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e8334	I also say that the Fourth Report of the Inconsistency Committee has been distributed to the members of the National Council. Let's go into the agenda. I announce that this meeting will be broadcast live from ORF 2 from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 1 p.m. to 3 p.m. and from 1 p.m. to 3 p.m. and from ORF III in full length. I would also point out that a photographer will photograph at this meeting in the National Council Hall on behalf of the Parliamentary Directorate. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e8364	In accordance with § 57 para. 3 C 2 of the Rules of Procedure reached consensus on the duration and format of the debate. The following statement was agreed for the debate on item 3 on the proposal of the new members of the government: First: Statements by Mr Bundeskanzler and Mr Vice-Chancellor with 10 minutes each, then one word record per club with 8 minutes and one word record per club with 7 minutes each, then one member of the SPÖ and one word message per club each with 5 minutes, then one member of the government of the ÖVP and one word record per club each with 5 minutes, then one member of the SPÖ government and one word message per club each with 5 minutes each, then the State Secretary of the SPÖ and once again one word per club with 5 minutes, and lastly the State Secretary of the ÖVP and again one word per club with 5 minutes, thus a total of 285 minutes. The first round of speakers takes place in order FPÖ, SPÖ, Greens, ÖVP, Team Stronach, NEOS; the further rounds of speakers take place after club strength. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. [[10:10:43]] 1. Point Election of the President/President
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e8413	We're now on the 1st. Agenda item: Election of the President/President. To this end, there is a written constituency proposal, which I announce: The proposal for the President of the National Council is made by Mr DorisBures. In agreement with the members of the President-in-Office's Conference, I propose to hold a debate on this item on the agenda and ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of it for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. Two rounds of speakers are scheduled for this debate for 5 minutes. It is spoken after club strength. I would like once again to ask for a sign of approval if you do so. – This is also unanimously adopted. Thank you. [[10:11:36]] Mourning on the occasion of the death of the President of the National Council Mag. Barbara Prammer
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e8465	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Before we go to the 1st place. Let me address a few personal words to you at this point in the agenda. [[Those present rise from their places.]] On the very day a month ago, our Madam President Mag. Barbara Prammer died of her severe cancer. I would like to thank all of you, and also all the employees of the House, once again, very much for the very worthy joint design of the farewell by our President and also, at the same time, for the support given to me during this interim period. As a sign of the commemoration of our late Madam President, I ask you to spend a minute of silence with me. [[Those present persist for some time in dumb mourning.]] Thank you. [[Those present take their seats again.]] Ladies and gentlemen! After Barbara Prammer's term of office, Parliament is no longer the same as before. It has been that we have gained self-confidence at this time, and we should continue with self-confidence this path, which Barbara Prammer has outlined to us. In this sense, we should expand our own design possibilities, quickly finalizing the expansion of our control possibilities. We should take up the many proposals to redefine democracy and which we will also have to discuss in the forthcoming Committee of Inquiry – whether this is the proposal for the introduction of hearings for new members of the government or the proposal to make the early termination of legislative periods of the National Council more transparent and comprehensible – and we urgently need to consider how we can make our decision-making processes more transparent and comprehensible for the people and better involve those we represent in our decisions. It is precisely because parliamentary democracy is struggling with problems of acceptance that it is our duty to develop and present the House of Democracy, our Parliament, the Parliament of Austrians, to the widely accepted place of competition of political concepts and the cultivated debate, but above all as a place of solution and compromise ability. If we want to lead seriously the fight against political, party and democracy, we must, as self-confidence and responsible Members, strive every day for the importance and reputation of this House as the centre of our democracy. Ladies and gentlemen! We are called on today to elect a new President for the National Council. Before that, we will debate the electoral proposal that the SPÖ is the strongest group in the world. I invite you to act fairly and respectfully in the debate and to take into account the use of this House when voting. After the re-election of the President of the National Council, we will debate yesterday's fully-fledged reform of the Federal Government. The same is true here! Then: Advisors will observe very closely how we shape this start into a new section of Austrian federal politics. I wish us a good debate and a constructive, successful cooperation in the future. Thank you. [[General condolences.]] We are now going into the debate. Mr Klubobmann Mag is the first to speak. Arbitrator. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e8551	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, especially from the Federal Government on the edge of the audience! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Dear TV viewer! Am 2. August, just a month ago, Barbara Prammer left us. Their life struggle and their hard work in and for Parliament, especially in the last months of their personal struggle, are not only admirable and exemplary, but also symbolic of what Parliamentaryism needs. “In democracy, Parliament is the place of balance between different political, social and economic interests, the place where social conflicts are conducted and good viable compromises are made.” – Barbara Prammer said in October 2013 at her then election to the President of the National Council. This statement is true and right and also a guiding principle for the future. Today it is a question of electing a new President for Parliament, and before I go into this question, I should also like to pay tribute to Karlheinz Koppel as the second President of the National Council in the last few weeks. He has represented this Parliament very worthy and stylishly. [[General condolences.]] The Socialist Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is now responsible for the nomination of the President of the National Council, and this is a task that cannot be made easy. We nominate with Mr Doris Bures a person who will be well-growing in the tasks and challenges of the President-in-Office of Parliament. The functions of the President of Parliament shall be managed objectively and overly in the Presidency. And it is not only the parliamentary rules and the Rules of Procedure to know, but above all to live or to live. To be President of Parliament means to be aware of the role of the House and always to defend the dignity of the House. We also know that this is very often necessary in the house, but especially outside the house. Consensus and compromise in the presidential and a proper basis of discussion with all political groups are necessary. The biography of Doris Bures stands for these cornerstones. Their political commitment to youth also means to live early democratic-political virtues. As a former women's minister and also as a tenant, she has always been used for weakness and has also tried to overcome disadvantages. Doris Buresist in the XIX. The legislative period – we now hold at the XXV. GP –, was first praised as a Member of this House in 1990 and therefore knows the House for a long time and from many perspectives. She was a junior, a member of a government party, a member of an opposition party and a member of the government – and, of course, you have a special role to play in every task you take. Doris Bures will live as the National Council President in a super-party leadership and consensorship. In addition, it will also be important to step forward with the development of parliamentarism in recent weeks and months: the strengthening of minority law here in the House, the reform of the committee of inquiry with modern, better and more worthy rules, the decision of the reform of the House, which has been adopted unanimously here in the House, two committee of inquiry, which will also move forward the work on the subject, but also the proposals that we have put forward and are now discussing with all the clubs, to better networking between the EU Parliament and the National Council; and not least the opening up of this House to the population, to youth, to the “democracy workshop”. These are important points that need to be continued. [[In the case of the SPÖ, representatives of the ÖVP and the Agg. Stroll.]] With Mr Doris Bures, for the election of the President of the National Council, we are proposing not only a woman who has grown up to the task and will be very well done, but also someone who is deeply connected to Parliament and who will seriously develop the path of modern, lively, but also fair, parliamentaryism. I would ask you, on behalf of my group, to give our candidate the confidence.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e8651	The second speaker was Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Lopatka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e8672	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! As the first act after a moving summer, after we had to say goodbye to President Barbara Prammer, we are today called upon to elect a new President of the National Council, the second highest function in this Republic. This function was in good hands during the last legislative periods: at the current Federal President Dr. Heinz Fischer, at the current head of the Senior Federal University Professor Dr. Andreas Khol. We choose a successor to Mag today. Prammer – at a time of parliamentary change, but also in a very, very restless time when we are looking at the situation worldwide – and the new President will be more demanding for several reasons than her predecessors and as her predecessor, I am firmly convinced of that. However, as an Austrian Parliament, we can deal with these challenges together, which is also my conviction. I should like to begin by thanking President Karlheinz Kopf, but also President Norbert Hofer of the third strongest group represented here – for the fact that we have managed this transition phase so well together. Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office, but also Mr Hofer. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ as well as with representatives of SPÖ, Greens, Team Stronach and NEOS.]] What do I mean by “severe demands ”? – We have six political groups elected here in the House for the first time since 1945, and – Andreas Schieder has already mentioned it – we want to speak for the first time since 1945, that not only the national councils can speak here, but that in certain debates, in the hours of Europe, in declarations by the Federal Government, our MEPs can also stand here and talk about the European Parliament. [[As a result of this, the European Parliament has adopted a number of amendments to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, including those tabled by the European Parliament and the Council. Stroll.]] If our future is in a strong common Europe, then we must do everything we can to ensure that we are strongly connected with this Europe, because, of course, the national parliaments will also have a bearing role in the future. This Europe can only work if the principle of subsidiarity is taken seriously, and that is why we want to take this step. The biggest challenge for the future President will, of course, be the Presidency of the newly formed Examining Committee. It was important to me that there was support in this regard from one in the negotiating process. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work. The main responsibility and the enormous amount of time will lie with the President, the President and the two Vice-Presidents of the House. - That's what's new here in the house. I mentioned it earlier: We are in a precarious political great weather situation. We have war in Europe – yes, Ukraine and Russia, that is Europe! More than nine million people are fleeing Syria alone, three million of them outside the country. More than 700 asylum seekers arrived in Austria in the last week alone – more than 700 in a week! – and the Islamic terrorist threat is not only in Syria and Iraq, it has already arrived in Europe. Just think of the attack in Brussels on the Jewish Museum there! And we also have a huge army of unemployed people in Europe, right on our doorstep. In this context, we are voting today for the new President, in this context the debate on government reform is taking place, and in solving all these issues the House has a very, very important and important task to our Parliament. This is the best place we have to fight in order to find the best possible solutions for our country. Of course, we are fighting and fighting here, this is Parliament! I know Doris Buresals one with which you can quite argue, I know that from personal experience. However, I also know and am firmly convinced that you will play a different role in the new role here – for the House, for all political groups and also for a further recovery of our parliamentaryism. In this sense and with this expectation we will support you, Mrs Doris Bures, and you will have our confidence.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e8754	Mr Klubobmann is speaking next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e8776	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Let me start with a few words about the late President of the National Council Mag. Barbara Prammer says. It's very sad that she left us that she had to fight such a serious disease – most respect, how she dealt with it and fought until the end! This shows how much she has lived the work in the House and her responsibility, how she has managed to do so, and there you can only say: extremely great respect for her humanity, which she has always lived! Despite all the ideological differences, we have worked together very, very pleasantly and correctly in the presidential, and I will therefore always keep them in positive memory with great respect. She was a convinced parliamentarian, and in the end she really tried to do her best for this House, and we shall, of course, miss all of them. [[General condolences.]] I would also like to thank the Second President of the National Council Karlheinz Kopf and the Third President Norbert Hofer. Both have certainly done good work in this difficult situation of bridging until the successor, just as you can expect in this function. Today, the previous Minister for Infrastructure Mrs Doris Bureszur's new President of the National Council is to be elected. This office is certainly an important office, and I am I am convinced that Mrs Bures will be the best master of this office. We know them as a very well-informed personality, with which one can also dispute beautifully in terms of content, but which has always behaved very correctly in spite of their different positions. According to the previous uses of the House, the strongest party is entitled to the right of nomination. We have always adhered to this use; in the past this has been a proven process, and we will, of course, do it this time. These are democratic practices, and I say that is a good thing that we will not be outraged by either. I have always experienced Doris Buresbis as a correct interlocutor. I am of course convinced that it will also fulfil its new role as President of the National Council, namely to live the excess-participality in this House, ultimately to promote parliamentarianism in a positive sense and to ensure that the dignity of the House can be safeguarded accordingly. Although we are separated in a worldly and day-to-day way: that is the very nature of democracy, the necessary and important contest in democracy, that one can respect a person despite ideologically different opinions. I do, Mrs Bures, and I believe that you will be worthy of your predecessor's heritage and will also act objectively and overly. [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Ditrich and Mr Strolz, for his support.]] Parliamentaryism is a great concern to all of us and must be our duty and commitment to all of us. The Office of the President of the National Council is the second highest to be awarded in the Republic of Austria, and, Mrs Bures, I am convinced that you are aware of this and that you will be able to shape your office accordingly. From my side you will get the confidence, I wish you all the best!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e8845	Mrs. Klubobfrau Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek has been reported next word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e8866	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Dear ladies and gentlemen in front of the televisions! At the beginning, I would like to name and describe the political personality of Barbara Prammer, as we wish to remember and be remembered by the Green Group. Personally, Barbara Prammer will be very missing. Since 2006 we have been together in the Presidential – but also before: she is the second president, I represent my predecessor Clubobmann Van der Bellen. I will personally miss them very much, but politically they leave a very large gap. We want to remember Barbara Prammer as a champion of women's rights. Within and outside this House, she has always promoted the equality of women in our society, including within our parties, and we want to keep her in mind – also as a thinker of the development of democracy, in particular with regard to the careful handling of the rights of minorities. [[General acknowledgment]] It is precisely the political agreement that took place before the summer to make the setting up of committees of inquiry a minority right that I think is also a result of their efforts at this time. And we also want to remember Barbara Prammer as an example because of her attitude as a convinced antifascist, against racism, against anti-Semitism, against witches and always for the rights of minorities, for the rights of the ethnic groups. [[I should like to congratulate the Greens and SPÖ, ÖVP and NEOS representatives.]] Barbara Prammer leaves a huge gap not only as a human being but also as a political one. Thank you Karlheinz Kopf and Norbert Hofer for the excellent representation at this time! It was certainly difficult to organize this transition with the employees of the house, even in view of the distress that we all feel today. Now to the election of the new President: I think that before the summer the political agreement must also be recognized as a historic cäsur in parliamentarianism, in Austrian culture. We have always made very clear at all constitutional meetings that the question of dealing with the majority with the minority is a very relevant political issue. And we have also repeatedly agreed that there is a need for a new parliamentarism, a much more self-confidenced Parliament, which does not understand itself as an extended workbench of the government, but very independently evaluates and creates things on very many issues, and in this sense also acts independently. This has been so rarely the case in the past. Now we have a situation that has not been in place for 24 years – as far as I have now historically researched – that the President de facto is directly elected from the government bank to the head of the legislative, the National Council. This is certainly a very, very big challenge, and it is certainly also necessary to change roles and to have a new understanding of roles. I do not hide the fact that in our group there is a proper portion of scepticism in this respect – I say that openly – but I personally trust you in this change of roles, I believe you will do so. While we did not have the very best experience with your past place of business regarding the right of interconnection – that is, also a control instrument of the National Council – and this is also an important question: that ministers, ministers, take this control right of the House more seriously in the future. We do not have the opportunity, as in Germany, to go to the Constitutional Court if our questions, which we ask in the sense of the population, also in the sense of control, are not answered enough. I would like to see a new culture - also addressed to the government - to take Parliament's control rights seriously. [[Congratulations with the Greens, with representatives of the SPÖ and the Agg. Vavrik.]] I'll choose you, I'll trust you with this change of roles. We will fully support you if you continue the path that Barbara Prammer has also taken, namely to develop a great degree of independence towards the government, to see this Parliament as an independent one. Barbara Prammer has always been on the side of Parliament's control rights when there have been conflicts. I think, however, that the great test will be carried out by you in the form of the committee of inquiry. The Presidency is certainly a very, very delicate task, especially since you have been a part of this government in recent years and may also be subject to the examination of government members and the activities of the current Federal Government. So these are certainly very, very big challenges. I will fully support you in the Presidency to be an independent President, who is precisely this principle with a 100% conviction. followed. I think the value of democracy is measured by how minorities are dealt with. This concerns the question of our society, but it also concerns Parliament's question – and in this sense I hope for good cooperation!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e8957	The next word to speak is Mrs. Klubobfrau Dr. Nachbaur. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e8978	Mr President. Dear government representatives – there are no yet! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! That's kind of you. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[In the direction of the Federal Chancellor sitting on the gallery:]] Greeting God, Federal Chancellor! Dear taxpayers! I, too, first of all express my great appreciation for President Barbara Prammer; she was a good person and performed her duties very well. I assume that the SPÖ's election proposal will be adopted, and that is why I wish you, Mrs Bures, every good thing now for the performance of this office. I wish you every success, you'll probably do well. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team as well as with representatives of SPÖ, ÖVP and FPÖ.]] In particular, they will also play an important role in the Committee of Inquiry and decide which topics will be dealt with, which witnesses will be invited, which questions will be asked. I trust you that you will do this in a very extra-participal way, just as all the highly esteemed President Barbara Prammer would have done. I hope that, as future President, you will make the bridge from party policy to extraparticipality and thus also exercise the second highest office in our state in order to serve our country. It is a very honorable task to serve his country, and this applies to all of us here. In this sense, I would generally like to see more overparticipation and more focus on the matter. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. El Habbassi.]] You know, this is my first year in politics, and it was a relatively great disappointment for me to see that, no matter what we suggest – and there is certainly the same for the liberals, the Greens and the NEOS – a principle No comes from the government. I think we should be happy about every good idea that's being contributed, no matter who she's coming from. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team, representatives of Greens and NEOS as well as the Abg. El Habbassi.]] As Austria now stands – with record unemployment, record debt and record taxes – one cannot afford the luxury of simply rejecting good ideas, just because they come from another party. We need the best minds right now and, above all, ideas about how to re-establish the economy so that there is enough jobs. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and representatives of NEOS.]] This is probably why it is so difficult to work together better here, because this Austrian political system is so clumsy. The ÖVP is stuck in its few modern bundle structures, and the SPÖ is convinced that it is becoming more and more a party of union officials. Under Gusenbauer, the top officials of the trade union in Parliament had relatively little influence, and now the SPÖ is going the opposite way. It is possible that any free-standing position will be occupied by a trade unionist. There are good people in there, but you have to be careful that this does not become one-sided. But what I really think is disappointing is that the mandate of our late President is not based on Mrs Ablinger, just as the statutes of the SPÖ provide. I stand up for women, and Mrs Ablinger seems to me to be a very wise woman and a critical thinker, but perhaps that's exactly the problem in the SPÖ. Perhaps some of the gentlemen in the SPÖ will fear and be afraid when a critical thinker follows. I regret the fact that they have been illegally replaced by a trade unionist. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and representatives of the Greens.]] Mr. Schopf, nothing against you, I don't know you personally yet. You must be a good man in your party. But I just don't like the fact that the share of women in SPÖ is not even a third now. It's just not up to date. I even allow myself to say that many of the contents of your women's policy are somehow hypocrites. It is no coincidence that a gentleman from SPÖ qualified me as a "Tussi". But I don't want to be hurt now. In the private sector, quotas are not recommended. There are already too many regulations, regulations and interferences on the part of the State for entrepreneurs. A company must, of course, be free in its choice of personnel. But organisations living from tax money must offer women an increased opportunity. That is why I say quite clearly: With the women's rate in parties and in the supervisory councils of institutions that live purely on tax money! [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and Greens.]] I particularly welcome the fact that we will have a National Council President. Mrs Bures! Again: I wish you every success! We will support you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e9087	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Strolz is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e9124	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! A look back, a look of appreciation also from our side: Barbara Prammer was a fighter for dialogue, a fighter for democracy, for equal rights for women, for minority rights and also for a living parliamentaryism. I think that was important, that's important, that remains important. She was also a fighter for dignity and style here in the high house. That too was important and remains important. And Barbara Prammer was NEOS' first president for us. She was a fair President, she was a careful President to us, and we will keep her memory in great respect, even in great recognition throughout the years we will be working here. A thank you also to the President Head and Hofer, who has been mentioned several times, for this very worthy, professional and prudent interim management of the house. Looking forward: We are now re-occupied with the second highest function. It'll be a president again, as it looks. I like that. And your task will be, Mrs Bures, to nourish the self-confidence and power of this House, as this House is urgently needed from my point of view. You were in the club yesterday for a personal discussion. I regard this as a positive signal, and I thank you for the fact that this was also possible in the short term. We will also give you an advance of confidence. The office which you hold here is with great responsibility, but also with great honour, and is of course, also mentioned, in a phase of change, also of parliamentarianism in Austria. They know as I do that this Parliament was never in its power in the Second Republic, and not before. Parliament has always been the extended workbench, say some, others, in my respect, an attachment of the Federal Government. The division of violence, as envisaged in Western democracies on and on its own, has never taken place entirely in Austria. They know as well as I do that the laws are not written here, not drawn up here, but – a specific in Europe – they are drawn up and controlled by the social partners, from the chambers. They are written out of the Ministerial bureaucracy. And You know how I feel that this will change. If we look forward, 2020, 2025, then that will no longer be possible, quite simply because: We have six political groups here, and we have four opposition groups, and that will remain the case. Perhaps some name will change, but we have a majority of factions that do not have their own chambers, which do not have these billions of heavy equipment, where the legislative work is outsourced. Yes, that also has advantages, of course! But one thing is clear: If we look into 2025 or later, then if we want quality in legislation, Parliament will have to work differently than today. So we need a lively, professional working parliament. That means, of course, it also needs other framework conditions, another equipment. I have already informed you yesterday, and I would like to draw only four points which are important to us NEOS to turn Parliament away from a purely staging stage to a genuine, powerful working parliament. First: We need to narrow down the party apparatus in Austria. We are equipped with fat party devices. You have to say that. We have the highest party funding in Europe. My wish and wish would be for us to shift a third, then we still have the highest party promotion in Europe, that we do so in small steps in ten years, and that we give at least half of this money to Parliament. Then the Members would have the resources they have in Germany, which they have in the European Parliament, more staff, legislative service, budget service, et cetera. Second proposal: Personal right of choice. In order to give Members a more sincere approach to the legislative period, we need to strengthen the right to vote in person. NEOS has made proposals here, others too. Thirdly, To strengthen cooperation. Let us see how this is lived, for example, in Scandinavia. At the beginning of a legislative period, all political groups are negotiating together, not just the presumptuous government groups. They're looking at where we're going to work together. That's what we should look away from. That makes sense, however, as the second President said, that we are talking, for example, about whether we should simply make new elections of Parliament the way they are, or whether we are saying, a breach of the Federal Government, the executive must automatically mean a re-election for the legislative system. - I think no. In my opinion, it would be up-to-date in Parliament if we were to turn on these screws. Finally, fourth point: Parliament reform. Mrs Bures, this is a great opportunity for us because we're changing the hardware. We will, of course, also intervene in the software of this house. We're going to have to rethink the processes. We must consider how the government is facing the legislative process locally, but also in the processes as a whole, as in an age that is, for example, also characterized by digital media, we must catch up with the public. We will therefore be a different Parliament after completion of the reconstruction than we are today. That is quite clear, and in that there are infinitely many opportunities. I wish we could make good use of these, be of good use to each other. I wish you all the best for your responsibility.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e9190	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e9212	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! With Doris Bures, a profound expert from Parliament comes back – I say, back. Doris Bureswar was a member of Parliament from 1990 to 1996, enthusiastic parliamentarian, so I met her. When Doris Buresal's youth spokesman moved in here, the first youth parliament took place here, 183 pupils populated the house and learned democracy, learned democracy here. And after that, as Doris Buresuch always kept, it didn't go home immediately, but in this case – there we were young enough – went down to the disco. That was Doris Bures, too. I would like to say that democracy, the democracy workshop, at Doris Buresist, was in good hands what Barbara Prammer was a heart concern. Doris Bureshat proved at the beginning of her political activity that her youth is at heart. As a building speaker here in Parliament, as chairman of the Building Committee, she has proved that she can also stand her wife in this more man-dominated metier. This will benefit her, and this will benefit her and the taxpayers too when it comes to remodeling and rehabilitating Parliament. It's about a lot of money. I'm sure this project is good for Doris Buresin. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The case of women – it has already been mentioned here a few times – was, unfortunately, too early-dead President Barbara Prammer always an important one. The women's cause is also very important to Doris Bureseine. From the beginning of 2007 to June 2008, she was the Minister for Women's Affairs and set accents here. I recall the constitutional provision of gender budgeting, which has been valid since 2013. This is more than a matter of finding life in this bulky word. It is about what money is spent on whether there is justice in it. In addition to things like sports courts that populate men, are volleyball courts also promoted for women, for example? What is money spent on? Is justice in the public finances? Barbara Prammer has already set marked signs in the budget service, and Doris Bureswird, as I am sure I will continue to do so and put appropriate emphasis on justice also in the expenditure in Parliament and on the side of the budget, here we are responsible. As a minister, Doris Bures also set accents in the field of technology, in the field of transport, which was primarily a ministry dominated by men. It was Doris Bures, who had seen that the supervisory councils instead of these lean 15 percent had now been increased according to the government's own commitment. Over 30 percent of the Supervisory Board posts in their department are filled with women. That's a performance. Congratulations also for the women in our country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Doris Bures has shown us that even in these more men-dominated areas, if you are looking and if you are trying to find women, you will also find good women. I remember last week I was allowed to accompany Doris Bureszu on the technology talks to Alpbach. When we left the hall, a woman said admiringly to her companion: Look, Minister Bures has almost only women in her company, in her entourage! In this sense, dear companion Doris Bures, I wish you and us much success for the new activity, I assume that you will be elected. I wish you all the best, most welcome to Parliament and good cooperation! Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e9327	The next item is Mrs Schittenhelm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e9348	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! At today's special meeting of the National Council, which has become necessary as a result of the disappearance of our all-esteemed President Barbara Prammer, we will elect as her successor the representatives nominated by SPÖ as National Councillor Doris Bures, former Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology. Today, however, we will also hear the statements made by Mr President, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Vice-Cancellor of Government and get more information about the new members of the Federal Government. Some speakers in front of me have referred to the current political development and situation in Europe, but have also dealt with the various areas relating to the election of the first President of the National Council and their expectations as regards the future presidency of the President. We all know, ladies and gentlemen, that the first President of the National Council, in addition to all the business activities, needs a high degree of fingertips to keep the balance, already mentioned today, between the six parties, political groups here in the House. Keeping this balance is certainly one of the most difficult tasks of the President to ensure an effective parliamentary process. One thing I might want to correct with regard to the Green Club: Austria is probably the most minority-friendly Parliament in Europe compared to other countries. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! In addition to the well-known tasks, the President of the National Council has two other important tasks. On the one hand, this is Parliament's general reorganisation, because the current working conditions are both the Members of staff as well as of us, the Members of Parliament, are simply unreasonable. The last major reconstruction – central entrance, ramp renovation, Neubau et cetera – took place ten years ago under the then National Council President Andreas Khol, as has been said, in 2004, and this has been a long time since. On the other hand, of course, the National Council President and President will require a high level of know-how on the part of research committees and will also take a lot of time. Both are important for a functioning democracy, both important for a functioning parliamentaryism. Ladies and gentlemen, as an ÖVP spokesperson, I am pleased that Doris Buresdie is again occupied by a woman with the second highest position in the Republic. This is a strong signal to the women in Austria. In my capacity as President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council to pay particular attention to her particular concern for women's policy in her office, as was her predecessor Barbara Prammer, through fixed rounds of talks with us women's speakers. She has also organised an efficient and successful number of women-specific events, whether symposia or surveys, here in the house together with us women's speakers. I am very confident, too, because Doris Bureskennt, out of her work as Minister of Women and Head of the Equal Treatment Commission, recognises the problems of women's policy, in the lives of women. Just to give an example: With its current poster campaign “Womenhelpline”, the awareness of the entire Austrian population, she has initiated an important contribution to the protection of women from violence. High house! As a long-standing member of the Transport Committee, I was also able to see with what determination and stability Doris Buresal's minister represented her political line in projects, and especially her competent and pragmatic approach to a wide range of issues I have learned and appreciated. Therefore, I am confident that this very feature, ladies and gentlemen, will benefit her very much from her political skill and her long-standing political experience in the various functions of the new National Council President. We from the People's Party expect the future President of the National Council to exercise an objective, responsible and responsible role. We, the People's Party, therefore have a great advance of confidence for the future National Council President Doris Bures. In this sense, I wish you every success and everything, all the good.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e9437	The third President of the National Council, Mr Ing, next spoke. Hofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e9458	Mr President. High house! Estimated members of the Federal Government! Federal Chancellor! First of all, I can say that I not only respected Barbara Prammer but also very much liked Barbara Prammer. She was an incredibly strong woman with whom you could really work well. She had a solid ideological foundation, a solid view of the world, and this foundation was also the basis for her understanding of other world views. She accepted that if someone in whole, very important questions were different, However, it is also trying to convince the opposite of its own positions. I believe that this is very important in a democracy. In Austria, there have already been attempts to create parties that have meant that one can come out without ideology, without a firm view of the world, a culture of happiness and political wellness, in which one decides once and for all, and we have experienced that these experiments have failed. I believe that Austria needs politics more than ever, people who have a firm inner conviction and all that they want to help to break through this conviction without raising their own view of the world to the dogma. [[Congratulation with FPÖ and Greens.]] I have great respect for each and every one here in the House, who has gone into politics to implement his own ideals, his own view of the world. No matter if it is an environmentally-motivated person, whether it is a person who is very committed to social matters, people who have Christian-Democratic access, or people who are interested in my group, in whose statutes it is said in the first sentence: Freedom is our highest good! or to the NEOS or to the Stronach team – everyone who comes in here deserves respect, but – and I would like to stress this too – we also need the fight, we also need this culture of dispute. There is always criticism on the part of the citizens that there will be so much debate in Parliament, which does not make a good impression at all. I'd like to tell you: If we did not have this dispute in Parliament, if we did not have these emotions, then we would have a single party in Parliament, then we discussed without emotions, then everything would be unanimous, and of course we do not want such a ‘SED culture’ in our Parliament. We need this diversity and this dispute, but at the same time we must ensure that emotions never turn into hatred. That is the essential point. [[General condolences.]] We must also always set the limit where attacks become very personal and go under the belt line. That's not supposed to be the case. But the criticism of another political line is very important, and we can be proud that we have this culture in Austria. Madam President, Prammer has been very committed to a self-confident Parliament. It is therefore necessary to continue this course – through a strong budget service, by a strong legislative service, by further strengthening control rights, because we mandates are obliged to control. This control also does good to the controlled and is good for our Republic of Austria. I have never heard Madam President Prammer, who has had a very difficult way to go in recent months, lament. She has always continued her way until last worked for this house. Only once have I seen that she had a tear in her eye – but not for suffering, but for joy that it has succeeded in taking a six-party decision to rebuild this house. That was very moving and very touching. Dear Mrs Bures, I wish you all the best for this responsible task that you are carrying out! You will see that the task of working together on the development of our democracy is a very grateful one, that it is also really fun and joy. I have come to know you so far as a woman who also has her firm worldly orientation and who always likes to discuss and deal with other world views. I look forward to this joint work and wish you all the best for the future task. Finally, I would like to express my warm thanks to Mr Kopf, who over the last few weeks has taken over the difficult task of filling out the space left by Barbara Prammer. He really did this. Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e9530	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e9552	Ladies and gentlemen! It is undisputed use of the House that the strongest party, the SPÖ, makes a proposal for the election of the First National Council President, but a use is a use, and therefore this debate is also important. I want to start with something positive. We are pleased that President Prammer is following a woman again. Now it could be said that it is a matter of course that one must not stress any further, but the debate about the re-occupying of Barbara Prammer's mandate has shown that this is unfortunately not a matter of course. Allow me to make a few comments on this, because the damage caused by this debate is enormous; it may also be for your party, but that is not the point. It must be imagined that the Social Democratic Party Statute says – and this must be said – that a woman has to follow a woman in post-retirement until the 40 percent quota is fulfilled. At the moment, it is slightly more than 30 percent. Mr Schopf, who, in accordance with the regulation – that is right – and who is also following, has opened the way to decide whether to implement the Statute or to follow it. It means he said: I vote, and if the party leader of the Upper Austrian SPÖ decides for a successor, I accept this and do not accept the mandate. – The head of the party in Upper Austria has just said: The statute doesn't interest us, it's supposed to follow the man. Now one can say that this is a problem of SPÖ and the damage to SPÖ may be enormous, but it is about something more, namely the question of how credible demands for the upgrading of women are in functions when the party that always attaches it to the top of their flags acts in practice. We Greens need strong partners who are taken seriously on this question, but you have not contributed with this nomination! [[Congratulations with Greens and Team Stronach.]] Mrs Bures, a few critical comments on your nomination, I would like to allow myself to be a critical parliamentarian. It is probably unique in the history of the Second Republic that someone is nominated directly from a government office as National Council President and has to rotate in Parliament, so not yet a member of the House. [[Call the SPÖ:17 years!]] Second point: The Federal Chancellor made this decision in the smallest circle. The head of the party has only been educated later, the National Council Club has only been educated later. The Federal Chancellor has determined a closeest confidant from his circle. Don't misunderstand me, that's formally permitted, but for a critical parliamentarian, the impression is that the Federal Chancellor deliberately makes a closeest trust in the President of the National Council, who comes directly from the government to bind Parliament a little closer to himself. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] You know, the President of the National Council will have a key role to play in the future. Mrs Bures, two things are read about you: on the one hand, you are ambitious; on the other, you are loyal. Parliament needs an ambitious President, and it also needs a loyal President. But that is central, and that is why a change of roles is now required. In future, loyalty will no longer apply to the Federal Chancellor and the SPÖ Party President, but your loyalty – I hope – will continue to apply to Parliament, its MP and Austrian parliamentarianism. [[Congratulations with Greens and Team Stronach.]] I hope that this change of roles succeeds. There are some questions on which you will be measured. The first question: Will you stand for a self-confident Parliament that acts in the awareness that it is the legislative and not the government's extended workbench? It is not about government officials supporting the government, but about the question of parliamentary culture. The second question – and also in this respect I hope that you will make the change of roles – is: Will you be the President of all Members, that is, in case of doubt, you will also defend opposition interests and control interests against government interests? That'll be important. And the third point to be measured is the question of how you will act as the potential chairman of a committee of inquiry. Count government interests for you or count control interests for you? We wish ourselves and hope that you will succeed in this change of roles. We want an independent President of a strong Parliament. It would be good for the Austrian Parliament and, I hope, for you to succeed in this change of roles. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e9603	The next item is the report by Mr Vetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e9625	GOOD GOD, Mr President, Honourable Members of the Federal Government, High House! First of all, I too would like to express my regret at Barbara Prammer's death. I have learned to appreciate them in the few months in which I work here in the House because of the sovereign leadership of their office, but also after a few personal conversations that I have been able to hold with her, because of her warm nature. I'm really sorry she left us. If we choose a new President today, we will do so in times of inner and external tension. In Europe, the signs are on storm. A kind of economic war is being waged, with trade bans bringing about peace in the east of the continent. This has so far been anything but successful, and the Austrian economy has already been pitied. If orders are cancelled at a million level, Austrian politics is also required. But also inside we experience a tense situation, especially with regard to the financial situation. The government debt increases despite record revenue, and the state is acting in an unprecedented way according to the money of its citizens. Still missing a real awareness of budget discipline, populists call for new taxes. What we really need is a significant tax reduction, and I refer to the proposal for a graduated tax reform without counter-financing. In this respect too, we will have to have controversial discussions in the House. Today, when we elect a Social Democratic as a new President, we follow a proven tradition, namely a tradition of the distribution of power, the internal distribution of power of Parliament. The strongest group represents the President of the National Council, the second strongest group the Second President and the third most powerful to the Third President. The internal distribution of power is important for democratic cohesion, and this democratic cohesion, this internal distribution of power, has experienced disturbances in the last few days in the two government groups. As has already been mentioned in part, the SPÖ has won the trade union influence at the expense of the women's propaganda and led to protests. Since Alfred Gusenbauer left the top of the party, the influence of the union has increased continuously and disproportionately. [[Call the SPÖ: It hurts!]] If further populist demands for tax increases are now being made, the fear of a capital flight from Austria is only justified. In order to save social democracy, I would also like to say at this point: Alfred Gusenbauer once closed: Down taxes makes citizens mint. And even Hannes Androsch hardly leaves out an interview in which he does not warn of the harmful consequences of new taxes, especially asset taxes. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] But also the internal distribution of power of the People's Party has been wavering in the last few days. There, to the detriment of the overall well-being, the ÖVP heads of state have the saying. Hardly one was absent because on vacation, another became king-wrench and king-maker. In this context, the representatives of the Austrian People's Party were reminded of the following: The centre of power is parliament and not a capital, once perhaps St. Pölten and once Linz. I also call you, especially in the new constellation, to a new self-confidence so that you do not go into that populism that has put a bad end to the political career of Michael Spindelegger. If today we elect Mrs Bures as the new President of the National Council, I am involuntarily aware of Lenin's comments on the abilities of a cook. Regardless of that, Mrs Bures, I wish you every good thing for the exercise of your duties, hope that you may grow with this office as your predecessor did, and give you my vote in good democratic tradition. - Good.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e9667	As the last speaker in this debate, Mr Scherak, I should like to say a few words. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e9689	Mr President. Dear Members of the Government! High house! Mrs Bures, I wrote a little bit of a wish list yesterday and would now like to bring you a few of these ideas just closer. You are, after all, one of the signs of this Parliament after your election to the President, which will probably go out in this way. And as one of these signposts it is, I believe, in your special responsibility that you take seriously the ideas and wishes of the citizens who are being brought to us. For example, I remember the petition to the Hypo-U committee, which has signed extremely many people, about what the will of these people was. If now the reform of the Rules of Procedure for U Committees is carried out, you will lead the U Committee as chairman. This is probably the most important parliamentary control body, and therefore this Presidency is also a matter of particular responsibility. Even if minority rights are strengthened, it will be up to you in many areas as to the importance of this U-committee. That's going to be On the one hand, you will have to deal with how you, together with lawyer and judge, will respect the personal rights of persons providing information. It will also be the other way around your responsibility, which questions will then be allowed in the Committee. That is, I believe, very important and a very sensitive task in the context. But there are also many other areas that we would like NEOS. We would like the Committee on Petitions to have more financial resources available for this and that citizens and citizens' concerns be heard even more. [[Congratulations with NEOS and Team Stronach.]] We would also like to see committee meetings in this Parliament finally open to the public that they will be disabled via the Internet. This is quite normal in the European Parliament. We all know that a substantial part of our work is being done in these committees, and I personally do not understand that we are closing people's access to these essential parts, so that they cannot even know what we are doing there. Another point on transparency would be that we might also think about a “Legal Footprint” of laws, so that citizens also know where the influence came from and how these laws came about. We still have a lot of other proposals. We all know that the Rules of Procedure, as they are now, have not been made for six parties, that this has been a long time ago and that we should try to reform these Rules of Procedure in general. We would like there to be fixed assessment periods for government documents. We talked a little bit about this yesterday. You, in particular, as someone who comes directly from the government, know that these deadlines are partly too short and that it is de facto impossible to give a final opinion. I also believe that cooperation with experts from outside is very, very important, for example with the Institute for Technology Assessment, with which cooperation is already planned, or also with the cooperation that President Prammer has started with the Austrian Academy of Sciences. However, I also believe that it is important for experts who have already worked as experts in this Parliament to be invited to committees much more often. We would like to see, for example, the loading of experts into minority law, so that certain expert bodies can simply come more often. I am very pleased that the right of speech for Members of the European Parliament will now come here in the Austrian National Council. We always asked NEOS to do that. I am very pleased that this will come now. Mrs Bures! I know, of course, that all these wishes I have now made cannot fulfill you alone. It is up to Parliament as a whole and to all the Members that we are going to do something about it, but I think it is very important that you, as President of this Parliament, are always a strong voice for living parliamentaryism. I believe that you will play a very important role in this and have a very special responsibility. In this sense, I would like to thank you once again for having been in the club with us yesterday and having discussed your plans with us, and wish you all the best for your new function.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e9756	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Election of the President/President
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e9776	We shall now proceed to the electoral process. In accordance with paragraph 87, paragraph 7 of the Rules of Procedure, the election of the President or President shall be carried out in secret with votes. There is a desire to make the choice in election cells. That's why I'm doing this. There is a motion for a resolution on Doris Bures. I would point out that according to § 87 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure shall also be valid for votes to other elective candidates. I am now briefly interrupting the session in order to create the technical conditions for the election in election cells. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e9833	I welcome the interrupted sitting again and ask the author, Mrs Mag. Musiol, get ready. Ladies and gentlemen, the voting paper to be used will be issued by the officials of the Parliament's Directorate on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. For the election only the official voting paper shall be used. On this is the name of the pre-printed candidate to be checked or to write to another desired candidate or other desired candidate. After completing the poll in the electoral cell, it must be thrown into the urn provided in the envelope. I now ask Members to receive their votes and envelopes by calling for their names and then go to one of the voting cells. I ask the writer, Mrs Mag. Musiol to start with the name call; Mr Buchmayr will replace them later. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e9877	The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make the number of votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. I am interrupting the session for a few minutes to this end.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e9917	I will resume the interrupted session and announce the results of the election. Members cast: 175; of which: 150. The absolute majority of valid votes are therefore 76. There were 117 votes for Doris Bures and 33 votes for other Members. [[The remaining 33 votes were for Members: Petra Bayr, MA: 1, Dr. Josef Cap: 14, Mag. Norbert Darabos: 1, Dr. Eva Glavischnig-Piesczek: 1, Daniela Holzinger, BA: 3, Mag. Andrea Kuntzl: 1, Mag. Christine Muttonen: 3, Otto Pendl: 2, Walter Schopf: 2, Mag. Gisela Worm: 5.]] Mrs.Doris Buresz has been elected President of the National Council. [[General, standing condolences.]] [[The club members of the parliamentary parties go on their way to Abg. Bures and congratulate them. Klubobmann Schieder hands over Abg. Neighbors a bouquet of flowers.]] Mrs Bures, I ask you if you will accept the election.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e9993	Yeah, I'll take the choice.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e10008	I would like to congratulate you very much on this election and invite you to take over the presidency here. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] [[The President's Head and Hofer congratulate the newly elected President. President Head hands over a bouquet of flowers to President Bures.]] [[It was in favour of SPÖ and ÖVP as well as of representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[12:06:16]] President's address
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e10050	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Values Members of the Austrian Federal Government! High house! Allow me to dedicate my first words to our late President of the National Council. Barbara Prammer was a great woman and an outstanding parliamentarian. Politics, she formulated it herself, was her life. It's in their office. Barbara Prammer succeeded in combining over-participation with a clear political attitude, and in the last days and weeks – and also here today – she has experienced the appreciation she has deserved. If she had been shown part of this appreciation and respect for her life, I think she would have enjoyed it very much. Barbara Prammer has achieved a lot and has also brought a lot of things on the way for us. Personally, my last encounter with her will be remembered. It was at the last National Council meeting here in the house, where she showed me the photo of her recently born granddaughter Sophie. And I, and I think you, too, all of you, we would have given her a lot more time with our whole heart. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! All those who have given me confidence with their voice today are grateful to me. And be sure: I take your trust as a commitment and a commission. I want to be a good, fair and extravagant President to you and all the Members of this House. After that I will strive and therefore I will strive. [[General condolences.]] They know that there are few things in life alone and that there are few ways in life alone, so it is also a great concern for me to thank all those people – and that was very many! – who have accompanied me in recent years and who have supported me in my work both professionally and privately. In the last few days, I've often been on the 5th. On the day that I was first praised here in this House as a Member of the National Council in November 1990 I was thinking of this House. At the time, I was one of the youngest Members – in my group the youngest Members – and that was a very moving moment for me at the time. It was a moment that moved me so much because it was the first time that the Republic was here to vow the “unbreakable fidelity ” and the“ conscientious fulfillment ” of my duties. The Hoge Haus has been very fascinating on me. I had respect for his duties and I was proud to be Members of this House. I don't want to hide it. Today, 24 years later, to speak to you as newly elected President of the Austrian National Council is a great honor and a great honour for me. Almost a quarter of a century has passed since my first fishing in the House, and I think there has been a lot of positive things happening at this time too, and it has changed a lot to the positive. Austria has been fundamentally modernised and our country is in the middle of the European Union. Here we live today – and that in really moving times. Still, Europe and Austria have millions of people struggling with the consequences of a financial market crisis that they have not caused, and therefore we face major challenges. We face the challenge of effectively combating rising unemployment in scarceer budgets. But we also face the challenge of reducing the gap between the poor and the rich, and we have the task of giving our youth a real perspective and the armor for a self-determined and fulfilled life. It is not less than cohesion in Europe, it is about cohesion in our society, it is about justice. People in our country rightly expect us to accept these issues, to take them seriously and to find solutions. This is our task as a Member of the Austrian Parliament, and we have been elected to do so. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Parliament, the House of the People, is the centre of our parliamentary democracy, a historical achievement which is not a matter of course, but which we had to fight hard. It has already been mentioned: I was allowed to experience this house in many years from different perspectives, and I have come to know a variety of people who have come from different areas of our society, from all political parties. They have put their lives in the service of society out of conviction and idealism to help improve the living conditions for the people of our country. And that's why I know very well: The importance and performance of the Austrian National Council are far higher than it is Look at it at times. I also learned that politicians are just people. We are neither heroes nor saints, but – and we always need to make ourselves aware – we are very closely observed, we are inevitably role models in the good as well as in the bad. The scale on which we and our work are measured is rightly a stricter one. The respect we wish for ourselves must also work hard. We must live up to what democracy is, namely the passionate discussion of competing interests and beliefs, goals, demands, but also the willingness and the ability to compromise. The fact that some people no longer have the appreciation that they deserve in most cases and that they also need may also be due to the fact that today's compromise is often interpreted as a weakness. I think that this is a dangerous development, because those who measure politics only in terms of a hundred percent enforcement of the interests of the individual, are at risk of the whole and are also exploring the essence of democracy. Democracy – the only form of state for which it is worth fighting – also lives from the compromise, and therefore, ladies and gentlemen, let us discuss energetically and passionately, let us also focus on the competition of ideas, but let us in this House have a deal with each other, which allows compromises. Fairness, tolerance, respect and the ability to listen to each other will help us. Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that the need for the refurbishment of the Parliament building across all the party borders has been unanimously disregarded. This also provides a very important prerequisite for the professional and rapid implementation of these demanding and urgently needed projects. It would be nice if we could also make the further decisions that are still in place for this great project in the same way. The reform of the Committees of Inquiry is also undoubtedly very important for the work of this House. It is a very important development of our democratic rules of the game, and I am convinced that we can work together to give this instrument of parliamentary control a new quality. It was mentioned – but I would also like to say it clearly – that I am aware of a very special responsibility as chairman of future committees of inquiry, and They can trust that the Bureau of the National Council together will also carry out this new task responsibly. For me, a matter of course is the continuation of the so successful “democracy workshop. ” An important contribution in the common fight against fascism, against racism and anti-Semitism is already to anchor the essence and high value of democracy in young minds. [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I want to be all of you a fair and extra-party president. I think every human being shapes an office in its very personal way, and the office inevitably shapes the people who hold it – that is how it will be with me. What I wish for is an open, a lively, working Parliament, a parliament in which we draw a picture of the politics in which all Austrians can be proud. I look forward to working together! [[General condolences.]] [[12:18]] [[12:19:21]] 2. Point Selecting a folder
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e10163	I call the 2nd President. Agenda item. On account of the absence of office of Mr Dr. Nikolaus Scherakist chooses a folder. The proposed election of the NEOS club is on power. Gerald Loacker. Since there is only one election proposal, I will be in accordance with § 87 para. 7 in conjunction with § 66 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure shall not vote against them, but shall be cast off from the seats by raising them. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. We now come to the election, and I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the vote proposal of the NEOS Club to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. That's why Mag. Gerald Loacker chose the folder. [[Congratulations with NEOS and Team Stronach, as well as with representatives of SPÖ.]] [[12:20:39]] 3rd. Point Declarations by the Federal Chancellor and the Deputy Chancellor pursuant to Article 19(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on the occasion of the appointment of the new members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e10239	We're now on the 3rd. Agenda item. Following the declarations, a debate will be held within the meaning of Article 81 of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the request made by five Members. I give the floor to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e10269	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, on behalf of the Government, Madam President, I would like to warmly congratulate you on your election. The great evidence of confidence shows that you, honourable Members, are convinced to support a President who has promised to act objectively, extrapartially and fairly in her office. I wish you every good thing for this important task, Madam President. [[General condolences.]] I would like to say a lot at the beginning of my speech, given a very difficult starting point in Europe, because of a fact that was still unimaginable a few months or years ago. War in Europe was heard, we had actually believed in the past. War in a part of Europe where people have to fight for their self-determination and freedom is, we had believed, no longer necessary in our time. We see, however, that the appeals towards dialogue, which I invariably consider to be the right one, the appeals towards a peaceful solution in Ukraine, a clear attitude of Russia, to respect this peaceful solution, while respecting the sovereignty and freedom of Ukraine, are not being followed enough and that this dialogue does not continue at the hour. The dialogue is not marked by the seriousness of the conflicts when more and more Russian soldiers and Russian war equipment are clearly identified in Ukraine. This has nothing to do with respect for the sovereignty of a country. This has nothing to do with a country's freedom and self-determination. That is why it is our duty not to put the good common business in the foreground, but to defend freedom. [[It was in favour of SPÖ and ÖVP, as well as MEPs from Greens and NEOS.]] Whoever does not defend freedom will lose it. And it's not about freedom until she's about one of her own, it's too late. That is why the European Union has taken the procedure to draw the attention of political President Putin to the fact that he respects international law and has to ensure the freedom of a country that he has not spoken with dubious excuses, namely, that Russian soldiers are on vacation when they are found in Ukraine to disappear, but to enter this peace process. I know, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, that freedom can be defended by peaceful means. We do not belong to that group, which is becoming ever louder and louder in Europe, saying: Freedom must be defended by delivering weapons to Ukraine as a European Union! There will also be louder those who say: There are only military answers to military questions! There are also those who speak of troops uprisings and other military means. We Austrians speak of peaceful development, political answers and dialogue. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We are convinced that commitment to peaceful solutions is the only chance to break through military logic. I know that we in Europe are also currently having intense discussions about what this common procedure means, for example in the area of sanctions, but also in the area of economic development simply by uncertainty. Austria, as an example, is only 2.8% affected by the development of import and export activity with Russia, if you look at the figures alone. This does not sound much, but psychologically and because of the specific concern quite certain areas, individual farms, individual farmers, individual workers make us worried. As a government, we have therefore also taken over the idea of initiating coordination, as we are reacting in this regard in Austria, which is to reduce economic development by the uncertainty that results from a part of Europe's war. Mr Kickl, you may be able to laugh at that, because we are convinced that workers must be able to rely on stability in Austria and on the precautions we are taking in difficult times. [[Abg. Kickl: No, I can't laugh because you're chancellors of a neutral country!]] [[Congratulation with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Abg. Walser.]] I would therefore like to express my express thanks to the coalition partner for making the necessary human resources and making proposals very quickly, despite this difficult situation, in this difficult situation in which we must strengthen economic growth in Europe and reduce unemployment, in this difficult situation in which Jean-Claude Juncker, as the new President of the Commission, announced a programme for investment which must first be put to the ground, which means hard work. First of all, I would like to thank Michael Spindelegger and Jochen Danning for her work in the interest of the Austrians. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Team Stronach as well as representatives of Greens and NEOS.]] I am convinced that with you, Reinhold Mitterlehner, as a new vice chancellor, good cooperation will be possible, as will the other decisions made. The fishing observation by the President of the Federal Republic of Germany took place yesterday. With Hans Jörg Schelling, with Alois Stöger in his new position, with Sabine Oberhauser in her new role as Minister of Health, with Sonja Steßl, who is assigned as State Secretary to the Federal Chancellor's Office, and Harald Mahrer, now State Secretary at the Federal Ministry of Science, Research and Economics, have been made decisions that will prove that skilled, sincere and politically committed people who will be fully committed to the Republic. And I also ask you, as parliamentarians, who today – I have listened carefully to you and in the past – have rightly spoken about the constructive criticisms so often, this new government team, this team, also those who are new, and thus give the whole team the opportunity to control them hard, but to support them fairly. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Team Stronach.]] I would also like to thank Doris Bures, who, as Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology, has taken such important steps as infrastructure, research, development and broadband. It may also have accompanied Doris Bures many controversial discussions, but it is unmistakable that we have followed a straight path even in these economically difficult times and have not followed the principle of once uplifting the infrastructure, then reducing it again, then going up again without finally doing something. We have also equipped the infrastructure financially in these difficult times, in which there is no euro at all, which we still want to spend for another good initiative. We have financially equipped rail, infrastructure and thus contributed to its attractiveness, but also equipped research, development and broadband with the necessary financial resources. I would like to thank you here for your work in this area. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as with representatives of the Stronach team.]] I would also like to thank Alois Stöger, who worked in the health field together with the new Minister of Finance in an area where the objective is very quickly expressed, but the objective needs to be worked out very hard. It is so easy to explain to patients that they want to provide the best health system with the latest findings of research, the latest development, the latest technologies, the best medical, scientific achievements. And I can add, regardless of the individual's wallet. It should not depend on the credit card whether you get the best health care in a country. This is very quickly formulated, but it is a hard way to achieve the financial viability in the field of the cash registers, the financial viability in order to achieve this objective. I know Alois Stöger did important things. I know Hans Jörg Schelling has already contributed a lot to this in his previous function. I thank you for that. This is one of the core pieces of work in our country. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I would like to thank once again for the work that has been done so far – in addition to that done by Michael Spindelegger in a really tough time, that of State Secretary Jochen Danninger, who also worked in coordination, as well as of Sonja Steßl, who took over very important tasks for us in the Ministry of Finance. State Secretary Sonja Steßl will take on very important tasks in the field of public service, but also in the field of coordination. It is a hard work to improve efficiency in the public service and to implement an administrative reform in order to use this word so often stressed, taking into account the often controversial but also unilaterally debated Court of Auditors reports; it is a hard piece of work but indispensable for a government. Sabine Oberhauser is now responsible for the health sector, she will continue to improve the medical services and possibilities and make it fair and fair for the individual – as a doctor who knows this from practice, as a politician who knows how to reach compromises, because deep digging and no solution is often easier than ringing around a result. I know that Sabine Oberhauser has also learned and has already proved in many of her functions, also as a health speaker in this House, that she is very important to the compromise which the President has mentioned today. I would therefore ask you, therefore, to pay tribute to Ladies and gentlemen, take up all these proposals and fully support the new members of the Federal Government, who are under the control of the Federal President, with your criticism, with your constructive criticism, with your control – in the interests of Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e10387	I would like to thank the Federal Chancellor for his statement and now give the floor to Mr Vice-Chancellor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e10408	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen of the government! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I too would like to congratulate personally, but also on behalf of our party, Madam President Doris Bures, on her convincing choice and wish her a responsible, over-party, objective management. We will be very happy to support you as far as possible in this area. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ and Team Stronach as well as representatives of Greens and NEOS.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In addition to the President's election, there is a second occasion for today's meeting: the government reform and thanks to all those who have worked responsibly for the country have brought everything possible, in a difficult environment, to present positions and to push forward developments. I would first of all like to thank my predecessor Michael Spindelegger, also in his capacity as Minister of Finance, and also his State Secretary Jochen Danning for the work done. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ as well as with representatives of the Stronach team.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you know that organizations, governments are acting through individuals, and in the final effect, any change is also a new opportunity to introduce a corresponding mood of departure, reorientation and new ambitions. I believe that the government can take this opportunity, not only by the ladies and gentlemen, who have been presented from the area of the coalition partner, but above all by the two gentlemen on our side – they will present themselves in terms of content. I think it is important in this context that we have, with Hans Jörg Schelling, a finance minister who has not only proven competence in economic life but has also demonstrated competence when it comes to institutions and to developing them further. However, it was also possible for him to bring in knowledge in addition to competence and to deal with what organisations are doing, what is going on in the institutions. He also understands how to conduct or accompany reform processes, which we have seen in the area of the main association and in the field of health reform. It is about the existence of bottleneck situations competently and negotiable, and precisely for that he is the right man in a difficult time. We'll probably work together well. Good luck! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ as well as representatives of Greens and Team Stronach.]] Secondly, I can introduce Harald Mahrer, a younger State Secretary. He stands out from his personal activity for venture capital, for young entrepreneurs, but he also stands for a cross- and pre-thinking role in the field of Julius Raab Foundation. Ladies and gentlemen, he embodies what we might call today the curiosity of the knowledge society. And I think he'll be able to bring us a lot too. In the common interest: Good, good cooperation! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ as well as representatives of Greens and Team Stronach.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I too stand here – all know me – in a different role. I think it is my job to place some emphasis here and to do a certain coordination. And to the question in which direction this should go: I see this in such a way that we have to take responsibility in difficult times and must accept the future for our youth, but also for ourselves, and not suffering and not waiting. We are faced with enormous challenges – you have already partially apostrophized them today – which is the case in geopolitical terms – the crisis between Ukraine and Russia will concern us in the form of a crisis management at a social partners' summit, but also as we secure our gas supplies and others, such as security of supply. However, this crisis will not only concern us with the current supply or export, but also with all these crises that are taking place in the world, which is why we do not currently have a particularly positive development, which we note partly in tourism, but also in economic data. The context in this context has changed. We are an economic crisis in the sixth year; You've all noticed this. Everyone is expecting the upswing, including the economic researchers. 1.7 percent were forecast; if we reach 1 percent in the year, we're actually on the happy side. This makes it difficult for all the countries to make budget recovery, including the question of: How are we going? How can we make necessary investments in infrastructure, but also in the field of the knowledge society, in times of budget renovation? – It has an impact on the labour market if our economy does not grow, on pensions, on the health system. All systems, as we know, depend on growth. So there are enormous challenges, with the fact that the citizen, who has the impression of being a businessman, is already so threatened by a bureaucracy by a administration that not only does his life there and there not only make fun, but his activities are difficult. Last but not least, we simply have the so-called Grand Challenges that exist at the EU and the world level, whether this is demographic development, the CO2 problem, food security and much more. So that's in the final effect, the tasks have got worse. However, in the final effect, it is also clear that when the crisis arrives, the citizen also suffers. He notes that this is not only happening to the institutions, the states, the banks. The crisis has now also arrived with the citizen. That is, if several responsible parties argue about different solutions, how one should proceed, then of course one will also increase: citizens' desperation; then one will also rise: the incomprehensibleness of what policy is doing. If you ask me what I therefore see as my most outstanding or most important task, then my answer is clear and clear: This is – not only for me, but for all of us – the task of the Austrians regaining confidence in politics! I would like to address three points or three. The one level – which meets us, I believe, all – is the level of language, today already used several times in the pre-discussion. Why? Because I believe – look at the Internet, look at Facebook, but sometimes listen to the debate there or elsewhere! –, we sometimes have the competition of the grossities rather than the competition of the arguments! I am where President Hofer referred to the culture of dispute: Let's go the way for us to work out solutions in an argumentative exchange function! But let's go a little bit away from saying, in the form of negative criticism, that everything is bad. Even today's immediately introduced mistrust request is not one of the advance arguments or lorries that one expresses in the form of trust to someone or who is currently starting his new activity. [[Abg. Kickl: You haven't been there since yesterday!]] That's what I'm going to get to the second level. And that's... I believe that it is a need, ladies and gentlemen, that we are more and more putting the joint over the separation. The challenges are no longer about bearing education, the challenges are about the future! I believe that we need to discuss further solutions not only with the government, but also with the social partners, with other institutions. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! When I address this, I believe that one should not be at the heart of our activities: a current account, how many laws we have passed, how many events we have made. I don't mean now. You as a Parliament, but all of us. Quantitative and production-oriented it will not be, but it is about the content. I have taken a book with me, not necessarily from my area, but it is from the company publisher, as the socialists also believe it. Name: It's an orientation that's called the book: ‘Citizen close to active state’. [[The speaker keeps this book up-to-date.]] “Citizen active state” – I think that’s great! That actually describes in three words everything that will happen in the next few months. We must be able to explain to the citizen what we stand for, what a matter is used to him when we do something, but there are also problems. I think there is exactly the crucial point where there are problems, because I can not only act towards Rosarot, towards distribution and gifts, but I have to move accordingly when I say: There and there we have certain problems! In this context, for example, I would also like to address the issue of tax reform – not so often mentioned today, but it always occurs in the media. We too, our group, are in favour of a tax reform. We too are in favour of a discharge from citizens, who does not want to be! But, ladies and gentlemen, it is not only about the will, but it is also about the ability, and “can” I mean not technically, but in the sense of the question: Are the conditions? Do we have the necessary room for manoeuvre as regards the economy and the budget? That is why I believe that we are right when we proceed on the basis of the structure that we have taken together – there is even a resolution tabled by Parliament –: now, technical variants and models, then compensation, also on the volume, political negotiations, and then, finally, we will also have the question that stands in the room – wealth tax or not, or is there another solution? - get under control. Why? - Because it doesn't make sense to put that at the beginning. That's something like the closing stone. This was also expressed on Sunday at the Round Table discussion, where Mr Schellhorn and others were addressed, namely: In the final effect you have to talk about the question: Is it possible to cut expenditure, to finance the tax reform? Or, in the end, as Claus Raidl has said, will part of it have to be counter-financed accordingly? If, even before we have resolved all these questions, ladies and gentlemen, we decide about the volume and whether we are even introducing a property tax, then we are really at Hannes Androsch – according to the motto: That is also a question of the teaching of quantities! – that is, at the volume. We have not yet invented the calculation reform. Putting on the volume and the other first – that can't be the decisive point! The ideological component – whether we are playing out a group that is supposed to be relieved, so to speak, against another one we want to perform – remains behind. I want everyone to keep it any way they want. But in the context of acquiring the scope for future action, of course, citizens also need a discharge. We work on an administration relief/bureaucratic relief package. I don't want to go into detail, but I think it's also about creating a citizen: We need not only service, service, but also service orientation. The citizen must feel what we are for. Our future, of course, also means keeping the location competitive. I must and do not want to forget this because it is the first question. If we are not competitive, all the other issues – including distribution, including unemployment – that we cannot solve. That is why I say to you: The better we are qualified, the more we compete, the better it is for us too. That means in the clear text: Education, innovation and the knowledge society. These are the requirements that we need to meet. But we also have the opportunity to see where we have short-term need and long-term objective in the energy factor – I can only briefly apostrophise the example. In the short term, we need to secure energy supply. In the long term, we must focus on the principles of the eco-social market economy. What do you mean, ladies and gentlemen? - I'll be right there. I didn't have the time to take a short look. Just when it's new, you have to give me a little bit of cover. I'll be right back to the end. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Because the Greens are intervening: I just want to praise you. I think that we are connecting the basic with the necessary. We need to move towards less CO2, towards more renewable and towards efficiency. That was an example where we worked together. I also see this as a model example for other topics. This, ladies and gentlemen, is actually the point which will then deal with us in the sense of the question: How do we deal with systems? – with the health system, with the labour market system and more! In the final effect, it will be in times when growth is not there, where Mr Schellhorn and others say, we are actually always pouring money into the system, but never coming out with the money, even about making the systems more efficient, that not the performance will be reduced, but input and output will be brought into a real relationship. Otherwise, we will always argue about this and that. Now I come to the closing point: How do we do this? – I think: partnership! Not the separation employer/employee, empire/arm, top/bottom, but together. Economics means a grouping. I would also like to say one more thing: Since 1.5 million people now live in Austria with migration backgrounds and the issue of living together is an important issue, I believe that we also need to set new accents there. We have a well-functioning integration, performance-oriented, it has improved a lot. We have directed migration with red and white red card and quality-oriented access. But in the asylum field, ladies and gentlemen – keywords: Jihadists and radicalists, as far as Islam is concerned, we need to check our system. It can't be – we also have to separate between those who really need protection and the others – so it can't be that someone is experiencing the solidarity of society in Austria before the war and then gets back into war, in order to partially also stand up against us. Here too we have an interest in the interests of the community of citizens, here we also have an interest in the sense of state protection. We shall also have to do so accordingly with the Minister of the Interior and with the Foreign Minister. I think there are also certain, differentiated practices there. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and Team Stronach.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen: I think it's about the citizen having to feel what we're standing for. The citizen must see our future orientation. I believe that we need to work together to a large extent. I'm in favour of it! In this sense, I ask not only the colleagues and the Chancellors to cooperate, but also all of you. I will recover my slight excess of time on another occasion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e10511	Thank you many times, Mr. Vice-Chancellor. – Next, Mr Klubobmann Strache spoke with a voluntary time limit of 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e10532	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the government bench, in front of the televisions! Parliamentaryism also means not only experiencing government debt in the House and Parliament, as has already been the case several times, but also the necessary control and, above all, the opposition policy. It is true that where it is necessary not to say yes and Amen in all things, but to show where the wrong developments lie, where a government has been in the crisis for a long time, and the x-th restart, re-start, whatever it may be called, is taking place today. I do not even ask how many red and black governments have been re-started since 2006, and I do not want to mention how many finance ministers have changed and changed in the meantime. But this is exactly what it is all about, and I say that in the current surveys, we have a situation that this government in the population has lost a majority in recent years and months due to its failure to do so. Above all, that is exactly where we say that there is no moral legitimacy for the current federal government in the population. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It would therefore be reasonable to make new elections now. That would be the hour's commandment. Of course, this government transformation, which has been presented today, also reflects the deep crisis of both SPÖ and ÖVP, where they try to pelt a little more cosmetically through the exchange of personnel. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, it is nothing but a “More of the same ” when you now call the personalities. If Minister Stäger from the health resort, where he was indeed overwhelmed in many areas, now changes to a new place of business, namely to the Ministry of Infrastructure, then we will probably not be able to expect the major renewals. Sabine Oberhauser is a doctor, I trust her that she has the expertise to do something better in the health field than her predecessor, but I have also missed in recent years that she, as a health speaker, has been a bit regular in dealing with her former health minister. In this way, the expectation is also very limited. We have a situation in which, of course, Werner Faymann, as the party chairman of the SPÖ, too, has been put under pressure and therefore, as already mentioned, the trade union has obviously given more space on the government bank – which will soon be able to ensure a staff representative on the government bank – because of the fear of the forthcoming SPÖ party, since there was apparently the panic of not getting the support accordingly. All of this is certainly a background to these changes. On the other hand, it was a withdrawal of Spindeegger, who took place wherever I said, there would be no need for a saint to hang on him afterwards. He's been responsible for many mistakes in recent years, he's tied up load packages, there's no optimal handling of the hypo disaster either. Of course, he took over this disaster from his predecessor Josef Pröll, who then fled to the Raiffeisen Group. I'm already excited about what suspension position Spindelegger will receive. With Hans Jörg Schelling, we have a new finance minister, who has been at least on the Supervisory Board of the People's Bank, who is also Vice President of the Chamber of Commerce, who has been able to participate politically there in order to detach the economy – which has not succeeded until now – or has also been active in other areas, namely, in the area of responsibility as chairman of the main association, where he of course has also carried out an active rehabilitation of the health insurance companies in his responsibility, but unfortunately God also mainly with Austrian taxpayers. You should not forget that, and that is exactly what you can fear, you may soon be waiting with the Volksbank and could be a background that we are of course very critically illuminating. When it came to reforming, perhaps reducing 20 social security schemes to one or two, he spoke out against it – unfortunately God, because that would have been a reasonable and sustainable reform step. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have with Mitterlehner a new ÖVP-Obmann, who has already been part of the government and does not necessarily stand for the great renewal he announces. What else is going to be? – The top heads have been active in this government for years. [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: Wait!]] Of course, it will also be exciting how the wing struggles continue in the ÖVP, the loss of power of Erwin Pröll, who apparently could not prevail while holding Spindelegger after a night of fighting that took place. Well, we already know all of this, and we know a failure of this red-black government since 2006. You have had long enough time to finally ensure with the countless restarts concrete implementations that people feel. You come here today and say: We need to explain to them that they understand us. – At last, people want to feel concrete decisions and improvements in their wallet with a maximum tax burden that we are experiencing in this country! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Maximum tax and tax burden – over 45 percent –, highest unemployment, highest government debt development: These are all negative markers, up to the highest level of unemployment. That's where the numbers need to get better. Since 2006, you have been developing them in the negative direction, and here you are creating yourself and saying: Please give us another chance! Please, let's have a new chance. No, I think that many of the people are rightly outraged and rightly frustrated, because they have already rejected you in recent years when elections. They've counted among the losers, but they've always been hanged in, as an election loser, to continue as before. It hurts a lot because you're not ready to think about it. But, Mr Chancellor, if you stand as chancellor today and have addressed the question of the current development of Europe and Ukraine, I can already say that I am very concerned that we will find a development in Europe in Ukraine, where we should have played and taken the neutral role on our side from the very beginning. That would have been the constitutional answer! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It would have been our responsibility to intervene mediatingly, to take a neutral position and not to take a party. From the outset, we have called on us to make a proposal to mediate towards a neutral Ukraine, towards a federal Ukraine with autonomy status – including for the Eastern Ukraine, where there is a Russian majority population – to dispel the crisis in order not to pour oil into the fire, as was partly done by American group inter-eating and NATO expansion interests towards the Russian border. Unfortunately, these are the real political developments of God. They then break down neutrality as a neutral chancellor, as chancellors of a neutral country – an ever-increasing neutrality – and speak out unwise constitutions and support these sanctions of the European Union, although you here, as chancellors of a neutral state, should have behaved neutrally – to the detriment of the Austrian economy, agriculture, meat exports and many areas! [[Abg. Creeds: Bullshit!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrary]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Today, you're going to sit down and say: Now we are thinking about how we can somehow get back on the damage that has been done here. – Yes, up to 30 000 jobs are at risk here. I wonder why you have not taken a neutral, strong mediator position from the beginning, why you have expressed your support for sanctions and not acted neutrally. That would have been our job. Yes, in this case Bruno Kreisky would certainly be ashamed of this procedure, I can tell you. [[Abg. Arbitrators: But for you!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Bruno Kreisky had the courage and character to live our neutrality here, too, openly and decently. It has understood it in more difficult, much more difficult positions to ensure. Unfortunately, this is God's damage that has arisen, in addition to the persistent stopover of reform, which we are experiencing there, in addition to the negative markers I have listed, in fact, we are also still trying to undermine neutrality. That is the damage we suffer, and if today economic damage has been caused, then it is also the result of this measure. You have the responsibility in this Federal Government, and there are many entrepreneurs, many farms, but industry is also outraged by these sanctions towards Russia, because that does not do anything. On the contrary: We have the damage, not Russia. We should be more concerned – I am at the conclusion – about doing everything in the end so as not to create a new Iron curtain and a new Cold War in Europe. [[President Bures gives the bell sign]] This is our responsibility, namely to bring us mediatingly as a neutral country.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e10658	As agreed, I am now interrupting the meeting. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e10692	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I'll start the interrupted session again. The next speaker is Mr Klubobmann Mag. Arbitrator. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e10727	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewers in front of the televisions! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, it is never easy to resume the debate after the “time in the picture” interruption, but perhaps a few words on it: The debate on the reform of the government we are having here today is not easy. [[Federal Minister Mikl- Leitner talks with Federal Minister Schelling.]] After all, we are in Parliament, it is about government reform. [[Abg. Kickl: The necessary seriousness is missing!]] It is also not easy to find the balance and the balance between renewal and stability, especially in times when there is also a difficult geopolitical environment to deal with. The situation in the world has become difficult, I refer here to increasing fanaticism, religious fanaticism. At the same time, ISIS, Islamism and all these movements result in thousands and hundreds of thousands of people being banished, murdered or also refugees. The breakdown of states – whether in Syria or in other countries – also leads to displacement and civil war in many areas. In addition, the question of Russia, Ukraine, the Crimean crisis and everything we have been observing in recent weeks. This is also an honest word, because Austria has always stressed the willingness to engage in dialogue and compromise in this area in recent months: It was the Austrian Presidency in the Council of Europe and the seat of the Vienna Negotiations, where the dialogue between Ukraine and Russia was sought. What we have observed in recent weeks, however, is no longer a question of neutrality, which Austria, of course, takes in again and again, but it also raises the question of whether we are consistently on the side of international law and also consistently on the sides of humanity. Since my previous speaker, Bruno Kreisky, has tried – and it was also said here that he would not even have listened to the previous speaker, Mr Strache, with half an ear: It was precisely Bruno Kreisky's foreign policy that it was to know where one stands to stand very clearly for a human political attitude, and nevertheless to hold the dialogue with all the fighters on the basis of this contentious conviction. This is the path that the Federal Government is now taking, which Austria represents in the European concert, and which the new European Foreign Minister Federica Mogherini will certainly represent. I think this is the right and good way – not that of the Lord Strache, who just threw himself at the chest of “Mother Russia” and sings only their song. That's really not our way! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We also have economic challenges: Economic growth does not show the figures that we want and which we also need to address in the labour market. Due to the geopolitical situation, the international economy is going back and presents us with additional challenges. – Just the transformation of this government, the new minds are now the chance to find answers to these questions. [[Abg. Kickl: You don't have a new head!]] It is the opportunity to reboot – after a year of government now also to start with new faces – and – I say that quite self-critically – through work and decisions to convince so many doubters, drowned people or perhaps also disappointments of the solution competence again. How best to convince you of the solution competence? – By fulfilling this expectation, offering solutions and decisions, taking over responsibility and not fleeing into a distrust request, and once again trying to reach out to all, even before they have set up an act as new ministers, to express distrust, or even call for new elections. We were able to see the road survey at the ORF yesterday. People don't want new elections. What people want is a government made up of two parties with positions, but also decisions, compromises and good decisions for Austria. [[Abg. Kickl: But it's new that you're interested in what people want!]] And that is the way that this government will go, not by re-election – what Mr Strache wants – but by making decisions in this country to continue to be stable. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A few comments on the new ministers: Mr Schelling took over the financial unit on Monday. This is one of the central and also one of the most nervous and demanding resorts. In this area, we need to resolve the questions of how we can create economic growth, how we can support economic growth, how we can achieve tax relief for citizens, how we create a tax-structural reform, which at the same time will enable us to find a simpler, more comprehensible, perhaps growth-friendly tax system, how we can tackle fraud in order to continue this path of never paying off tax evasion in our country, and how we can bring more justice back to the tax system. The discussion – and there will certainly be very different positions – must be conducted without scams and without bans of thought, but one must always lead them with a view to the end, namely to the answer, the solution and the common way. With its infrastructure, transport and mobility, Mr Stöger also has the digital infrastructure and research in this area, and thus one of the key areas for the future, namely Austria's regional development. There's a lot of answers. Mobility – whether it is electronic or personal physical mobility – is also an essential question of social justice. In the health sector, Mr Oberhauser will have to continue to deal with the implementation of the health reform, with the question of care and all these issues, which are also closely linked to the personal issues of each individual citizen. It's about health, it's about life, it's about dignity, it's about maintaining this health and it's about taking precautions in this regard. I believe that Sabine Oberhauser has also achieved a perfect choice here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I used the summer to drive through Austria and talk to the local people in a kind of dialogue tour and listen to what they think about Austrian domestic policy. [[Abg. Kickl: You poor!]] You can imagine, that's not always an easy conversation. But what people say is this: There are two parties that have formed this government, who have two ideologies and two political opinions, but still will and are to prepare and implement solutions without mutual blockades for Austria. – We have proved this in the past, and we will prove it in the future; then people will see that it is a good government – and that is exactly what we expect.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e10832	Mrs. Klubobfrau Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e10853	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In this debate on government reform there has rightly been a reference to the extremely worrying geopolitical situation. However, I would like to say that it was strange for me to say that it was exclusively about the aspect of averting damage from Austria in the sense of discussing sanctions and the effects of sanctions against Russia. The reference to the breach of international law was at least an important corrective position here, but what I have missed completely is also the question of how to deal with this human suffering associated with these disasters, also because of Austrian responsibility. Here I would like to see a much more humanitarian refugee policy and also a lot more attention from the whole European Union to these millions of people, of whom everyone and everyone at the moment has terrible fates – death, misery, expulsion, murder – and I wish for a stronger role of the Republic of Austria. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Scherak.]] Since 1945 we have had 41 years of government of Red/Black – which is quite impressive – from 69 years of government, since 2008 a red-black government under the Chancellorship of Werner Faymann, and it has become the smallest large coalition of all time with 50.8 percent. I think you don't have to be on your way in the summer to get involved in what has happened in the population in recent months. The overall acceptance of the overall policy, but above all on government policy, has never been as deep as it is now. [[Abg. Fekter: Be better again!]] – “Be better again!” says Mrs. Fekter and smiles. Yeah, you're not sitting in the financial resort anymore, I suppose that might be a little hint that it can get better. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] – I’m forgiven for this evil now! But first and foremost there is a huge frustration in the population about the fact that before the election a completely different picture has been drawn, for example as regards the Hypo Alpe-Adria, the burden on the population, the burden on each and every individual, and on the other hand, incredible promises have also been made – tax relief, decommissioning and I do not know what has come. There has already been a very great frustration from this point of view, because we have experienced de facto standstill management in this country in recent months, except for the wrong idea of settlement with the Hypo Alpe-Adria – the whole shadow that has existed over any political debate. That is indisputable. Unfortunately, one cannot deny that. A plan could not really be seen. I say quite frankly that a plan did not really exist in this reform of government, especially in the SPÖ sector. Mrs Oberhauser, I appreciate that you are now the specialist in this department, but otherwise power-political considerations should have played a role, and less what is really necessary for a “restart” – under the lead mark – of this government. The term “restart” has often fallen, and one thing I can certainly say: It's your last chance as a red and black, the very last chance. If, in the area of tax relief, tax reform, education reform – which is to be referred to first of all – something substantial is happening, then from the point of view of this composition you will no longer have the right to set up a government. [[Congratulation with greens and NEOS.]] One can of course now observe the economic situation, what has happened in Europe over the last few months. We are also looking with concern at the collapses of the economy, especially in Germany, but also in France, which is one third of the euro area in a very difficult situation. But this is also the result of missing reforms in many areas. And slowly but surely we are actually in the process of giving a whole generation worse living conditions than the generation before. This concerns the income situation, in particular the educational situation, which concerns employment, which also concerns future issues such as climate protection, which concerns the issues of livability of housing, mobility, and this also concerns the important issues of research location, university location, development location. In all these questions, Austria has clearly fallen back in recent years. Sentences like: We have come through the crisis well, which I am very often hearing from the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, I am no longer satisfied, because there are already some who have come through the crisis very well. If you look at the 33 billionaires in Austria, you see, there were increases in the order of € 10 billion last year with these 33 people. So they certainly got through the crisis very well. This may have been a little polemic now, but I am still at the heart of your task for the next months. You have to get it done, at least once, to have an intelligent debate on a tax reform. Ideological scavengers really have no value here and no more right to stocks at all. There is a need for a relief from the population, especially as regards their labour and income tax, it also needs ecologisation, and at least there is a need for counter-financing, which can be safely achieved in the asset-related area, even if it is discussed intelligently, without prejudice to prejudice and without a ban on thought. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That's where I expect mobility! We are actually a very patient opposition; you really have to say that. The population has the – well, you have to say that already. [[Federal Chancellor Faymann: Well!]] We could now also say: You've had your chance, that's now the hundredth restart – and finish! But you get a chance. Use it! [[Congratulation with greens and NEOS.]] In the interests of Austria, we are interested in the fact that you are at least working reasonablely. If I may give you something, it is the following: Please start with education policy! In education policy, the ÖVP is not in the 21st century. ==References== If you are fighting school forms all day long, if you want to continue to have the stress with the nine-year-olds whose parents have sweat outbreaks, because there are one or two in the folk school certificate and therefore the life decision is to be made yes or no, I really wish you: In education policy, please come to 21. Century and open towards modernity! [[Congratulation with greens and NEOS.]] It cannot be that we lose 80 000 young people a year just because our education system does not solve this problem! It must be soluble. A special task for the Minister of Finance: The handling of the ÖVP with the financial sector has not been very loving in the last ten years, I say now. We had Karl-Heinz Grasser in 2004, then two people who were explicit agricultural experts, Molterer and Pröll, followed by two people, the former Minister of the Interior and Dr. Spindelegger, who were essentially non-financial. So you have something to do here, Mr Schelling, and I really wish you luck and success. Please do it with expertise and with no ideological scams! And please place some old pots – excuse me: old hairstyle parts – the ÖVP!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e10951	Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Lopatka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e10972	Mr President. The time of the long hair at the new vice chancellor is over. So the heads you want to cut off, Mrs Glawischnig, have been cut off for a long time. Ladies and gentlemen! It's a restart. That also feels the opposition. A back pass through the government. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Let's see!]] And that's not all right in the opposition. This has already been noted in the speeches. What is it about in such a situation? A proverb says: “When the wind of change blows, they build one wall and the other windmills.” – I believe, with the personalities that Reinhold Mitterlehner has now brought, he has shown impressively that no walls of blocking are set up by us, but the opposite is the case. There are windmills that will bring energy. And we need energy for the necessary reforms! We are always in agreement with the opposition parties in the headlines, but if everyone in the House is required to take part in reforms, we often have the situation that exactly those who call for reforms are the first to block them. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Not always!]] Reinhold Mitterlehner is someone who knows this house, he knows politics, he knows the economy. He is experienced and knowledgeable, he knows of course also the possibilities of politics and also knows the boundaries set by politics. That he's a professional, that's good in these times. He has proved this to be a minister of economics, a family and a minister of science. And now there are people who say: Mission Impossible! Well, first of all: When you think about the film – Tom Cruise was only in Vienna last week – you know that this mission is always positive. It wouldn't bother me like that. [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: But the women die!]] But I think it's better to use a word that Reinhold Mitterlehner has already put in his mouth today. What is it? – It’s a big challenge for him – a big challenge, I see. Mr. Vice-Chancellor has already shown in the first days that he is strong in enforcement. He showed very quickly in the first days which team he wanted. Within a few days, ladies and gentlemen – within a few days! – this team is sitting here and is ready to work, yes, I would say: willing to work and angry. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It took only a few hours and we had the decision within our party – within a few hours! – who will be federal partyobmann. This is also necessary in such times of crisis so that you can get the right personalities. Hans Jörg Schelling and also Harald Mahrer will certainly bring one to this government: Management qualities and economic competence. [[Abg. Kickl: That's what I heard from Mrs. Fekter!]] It's not just about the famous "Family Putz" – it's about all Austrians! They will soon feel that this new finance minister is one – and I am convinced of it a hundred percent – who, through his negotiating skills, which he has demonstrated in many areas, and also through the reform power he has shown, will also be well-performing in this key area a difficult task that he has to master. This team, this strong team of the Austrian People's Party, ladies and gentlemen, comes mostly from the private sector. It comes mostly from the private sector – you have to say that too – and not from a protected area. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Policy is not a protected area either. Therefore, Hans Jörg Schelling and Harald Mahrer will accomplish their tasks very quickly. But what we need – I have only always talked about a part of the government – is, of course, the willingness of the second part of the government, our coalition partner, to tackle this necessary reform work. We've been negotiating for a long time to establish the government programme. We have kept schedules in it. And we should see this government programme without If and But as exactly the basis of work that connects us over the next four years, and encourage each other to comply with it where we have timetables. Austria is still very, very good in comparison with other countries! We still have four years ahead, and these four years we must make the most of it. The international situation has already been addressed. In fact, the situation is anything but rosy. These were also the conditions in this first half year. Michael Spindelegger has seen that he no longer has the necessary support for what he has done. He acted like I met him. He decided quickly. And when he noticed that he just couldn't do what he was doing, he drew a consequence that didn't draw all the politicians. He concluded by saying: I'll step back! I am no longer in the House, because otherwise the only disabled representative sitting in the wheelchair, Franz-Joseph Huainigg, loses his mandate! He said: I'll do something else! In the first half of the year – I say here too – he naturally had to bear the main burden of work: the double budget, the solution to the hypo question. Something else has come to mind this week in the current issue also “The Economist”. There it says: ‘That sinking feeling (gain)’. – Yes, the economic crisis is again stronger and more noticeable than some have believed a short time ago. There we need here, in this environment [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] There is also a German translation for my colleague Strache if you need it. I'd like to give it to you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Kickl.]] Because Klubobmann Strache did this to himself yesterday. I am already with you, Mr Kickl: at the ‘Austria’s Frust Party’! Let me tell you again: FPÖ is for me only “Frust Party of Austria” in the future. Then: Before someone here can prove whether he can or can't do anything, you say: What we're giving you as an advance is distrust! – That’s the wrong way! I repeat it: That's the wrong way you're going! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: I can tell you why!]] Her Federal Party officer sat down yesterday and said: I am the one who can lead this Republic, because I have already run a company with at least five employees! Here is a manager of the quality that he has secured and created hundreds of jobs, a manager who has shown in the health field that he is able to implement major reforms. And what do you say? – They say: He's not capable! This is wrong what you have done here, fundamentally wrong: So to meet new people in the government, with a huge advance of distrust! [[Abg. Kickl: I'll explain it to you then!]] Mr Kickl! Stache is probably out there because he knows what mistakes he made by reading your speech here. I'll tell you! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You do nothing good if you exclude yourself from constructive cooperation. And that's what you do with such actions! It hurts me personally. I don't want to separate a party here, but you're out of your own way. I hope you'll find out! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: I'll explain it to you then! Then, hopefully, you will also understand!]] On the other hand, you may have to be happy if you do so, because if you are in the government, like in Carinthia, then you see, like for example, at the hypo disaster, what comes out in the end. [[Abg. Kickl: You're pretty nervous, Mr. Lopatka!]] I'll tell you one thing: Our group will have the full support of this newly established government – also with the new Minister for Health. [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] I am pleased that the other opposition groups have reacted more differentiatedly to this government transformation than you have. They set themselves aside today.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e11184	Next speaker is Mrs. Klubobfrau Dr. Nachbaur. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e11206	Mr President. Dear representatives of the government! High house! Dear taxpayers! I already said at the Round Table last week that I have great respect for Spindeegger's farewell speech, because she was honest, she was human. But it has also made quite clear the sad image that the last composition of the government has given: There is a lack of compactiveness, loyalty and cohesion. I hope that this will be better now in the new constellation, otherwise it will be no surprise that the population will become more and more tedious about what politics is about to do. I would now like to look into the future and wish the new ÖVP-Obmann and the new ministers the very best in the interest of our country. I hope you have both the human and political strength and also the necessary understanding of the real needs of the citizens, the many working people and the many entrepreneurs in this country to make good policies for our country. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Create They provide a framework for entrepreneurs to be entrepreneurship-active and that the working people can actually work and that people looking for work find work! [[New condolences with the Stronach team.]] Spindelegger said in his farewell speech that Austria's biggest problem is the huge debt mountain, which is still growing. That is the future of the next generations. I hope that you will finally be able to bravely reduce this debt, reorganize the budget, instead of focusing on how you can make a high tax country from a high tax country. We are already, as we all know, at the World Summit on Taxation and Taxation, and if you finance the proposed tax reduction with a new tax, then the rate does not fall. On the contrary: I think it would be good for some of us here in this House and on the Government Bank if the quota were to rise even further. If there were so many, then it would be redistributed for so long until there was nothing left to redistribut. And that's the wrong way! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Mr Finanzminister, please do not introduce a new medium-sized tax! A property tax for the really wealthy would not even be a drop on the hot stone. It didn't break a volume. And that would not change anything about this tax liability either. You need to clean up the budget structurally and do not see how you are still selling the last entrepreneurs from this country who can afford to invest here. That's really the last thing we need! We already have record unemployment. Unemployment – you have to imagine that! – has been increasing every month for three years. And if the already anti-performance policy in Austria is now culminating in a new tax burden, we will soon have an army of unemployed people in Austria. Instead of selling the capital, you should look at: How can I attract it? How can I put it on? How can I see entrepreneurs investing in Austria? – So down with taxes, not up with taxes! [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Stroll.]] We need a strong bulwark against the final raid of the state on the property of the Austrians, who have worked it out and saved it. I very much hope that the new EIA leadership will remain with this line. Even with the current tax burden, the citizens ask themselves: For whom, what do you want me to work for now? For this inflated bureaucracy and for the rescue of several large banks? Or perhaps for the new common European unemployment insurance scheme, so that we can pay for the unemployed in Greece or in Spain? – All of this is simply not reasonable to the taxpayer! If you, Mr Vice-Chancellor, have said in your speech that the decision on a new tax must be taken only at the end of their process, I must reply to you: No, it must be clear from the outset: Austria does not need a new tax! Austria has no income problem but an expenditure problem! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Dear representatives, especially the SPÖ and the Greens, please stop with the class struggle slogans against the so-called rich! First: The argument that the 30 richests can renovate the household is really not superior to uniosity. [[Abg. Rossmann: That was not said!]] And second: We're all in the same boat. We cannot be all workers of the Chamber of Workers at the end of the day. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] It needs entrepreneurs in this country who generate prosperity and create jobs. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Only jobs in the free economy bring tax revenue. State jobs, on the other hand, cost tax money. [[New condolences with the Stronach team.]] For some – also addressed to the left half of the empire – “capital” is an evil word. But it needs capital for entrepreneurs. [[Calls to the Greens.]] You may not always see the upsides just as if an entrepreneur is guaranteed a profit! On the contrary: They take a huge risk. It is not guaranteed at all that they will make a profit. You also have to recognize that. So thanks to all entrepreneurs for taking entrepreneurial risk and creating jobs. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We need clear and simple tax laws that favour investment in Austria and also encourage employees to be involved in the success. The employees have a moral right to participate in the profit, and should have more net of their wage in the wallet. And what's going on in the state: Instead of always trying to get rid of people as much as possible, he should rather think about what framework conditions he can create so that people can create as much prosperity as possible, save something. Ronald Reagan has already described in his time the view of the economy of what is happening to the government, and that is what is appropriate today. Reagan said: ‘If it moves, tax it. If the keep moving, regulate it. And if it stops moving, subsidize it." I like to translate it as well: If something is moving in the economy, then tax it. If it still moves, then regulate it. And if it finally stopped moving, then subsidize it. So it seems to be in this country too. We know the result, the economic data has been published on Friday: The economy breaks down instead of an economic growth of 1.7 percent, we have one of 0.9 percent. And do you know what that means? – That means: Unfortunately, unemployment will rise! That is why we must finally recognise that we have to let the economy breathe across all sides of the party. Only in this way can there be jobs! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The domestic industry is already creating more jobs abroad than it is domestically. This is a very clear indicator that the location of Austria is no longer attractive enough. Businesses can only be difficult to compete with. That is why this anti-performance policy, this overregulation, this over-taxation must finally cease. We say quite clearly: Performance and work must be rewarded again! And the fat state belongs to diet set. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Dear government representatives! Dear Minister of Finance, I am optimistic, you are a man from the economy. Take advantage of the opportunity of budget scarcity to finally tackle reforms! If you just stop new holes with new taxes, then there is no more pressure to reform, nothing will happen either. Please use this pressure! Finally, go on the topics that have been coming for years! And if you have done this, then you can celebrate and let yourself be re-elected without any electoral sugar and budget smear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e11330	I call Mr Klubobmann. Dr. Strolz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e11352	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! Dear fellow citizens! “Now movement is coming in” – this is well known as an advertising slogan of the Austrian Federal Railways. And: Now movement is coming in – this could also be meant at first glance if you look at the Austrian Federal Government. But before one or the other can be guided by old reflexes on the government bank and a public can be brought to the Austrian federal railways by a listing order, I would like to wait for you to examine together the phenomenon of this large-scale coalition movement. Foremost praise: At the new representatives in the Federal Government there are people who bring considerable preliminary experiences, also considerable know-how. We like that, that's good for the country! But thus back to the question of coalitionary movement. In the case of the SPÖ – if I may devote myself to you for a start – it is more like a static movement. [[towards SPÖ]] Why is that so? – Everything moves, but the standstill is unimpressed. This is a mystery at first glance, but on the second it is relatively clear: You can compare this to a ring game. A ring game also moves, but it does not come from the spot. And what you're doing here is a political ring game, dear SPÖ. With all sympathy for one person or another with you and also for the commitment I see: As an overall party, you are a political ring game. And that's too little for our country! In the process of reform, which we certainly have, I do not expect any major jumps from the SPÖ, nor major contributions. They will continue to wall in the pension theme, at the expense of the young generation. There's nothing else coming. You will continue to sing your populism beater in a tax reform discussion: Eat the rich! That's all you can imagine. You will continue to miss out on federalism and administrative reform – you do not have the courage to do so! And you won't have the room for real relief. In addition, low-intensification: They are not ready for a real educational turnaround, for a real educational reform beyond ideological pitfalls. You're not ready to do that. This tragic overall result, which results, comes from its own series: Androsch, your former Finance Minister and Deputy Chancellor, says that the competitiveness has been falling continuously for years, namely from the best ranking in 2007 with place 11 in place 22 in 2014. The SPÖ is at the tax, and it goes downward with Austria – that is the result! This is all the more tragic when social democracy was once a social-political emancipation movement. Listen to the workers' songs of the turn of the century! That's break-up, that's freedom, that's also going on. [[Interlocutory calls from Members of the Arbitrators and Krainers.]] There are several, but I can send you some that are available on YouTube. But there's not much left of it anymore. The red carousel rotates on a dark spot, and the result is record unemployment, record debt, record taxation, educational abuse. [[New calls from Members of the Arbitrators and Krainers.]] It's all quite grudging, it's the main thing to retain power; that's what matters to you! The red carousel roars along a chorus, which means “keeping power, maintaining power, managing down. ” That's your common chorus! It's not enough for more. But that's too little for Austria! [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the Stronach team.]] I'm changing to the coalition partner now. – At first glance one sees movement at the ÖVP, but that is a movement of the other kind. And what kind of movement is that? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] It's a kind of opening, some say. It almost seems to me that NEOS has already produced deep effects in you. [[towards ÖVP]] They're opening up. But do you know what the only opening I've ever seen is? That's a deep, deep gap! The government team of the ÖVP and the Economic Federal Wings are becoming increasingly distant from the party. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] A split goes through the ÖVP – quite in our direction. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I register this with great sympathy: That's in our direction! But the question is: What do you want me to think about this ÖVP? [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] I recently browsed the fundus of the Chamber of Commerce, the Economic Federation, the Julius-Raab Foundation, and what did I find there? I have to say: You refer the one thing, but then you act completely differently! I read a small sample of pensions to you from institutions whose presidents, vice-presidents and members are sitting on the government bank today, namely: uniform pension rights for all and abolition of all pension privileges. I dare say: Only in spring have you extended a pension privilege with €9 700 to decades. So: They write this one, but do something completely different! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] They also write about the rapid approximation of the age of women's pensions to that of men. This would be important for women, who have an average of €500 less pension than the men. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wöger.]] But what are you doing? . You wipe out the requests we make in this regard from the table. You have your own decision in six volumes, you don't stick to it. They claim one thing, but do the other – a deep gap goes through the ÖVP! The three institutions mentioned above write to life expectancy by automatically linking the retirement age. That would also be important, all experts say. That's what we have to do. But NEOS' proposals have always been erased from the table. They do not agree. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I also read full - mouthed things about taxes, and I read the following: Abolition of bagatll taxes, peak tax rate reduced to 45 percent. And: They want, dear Julius Raab Foundation and dear Economic Association, to lower the peak tax rate. They want 13th and 14th. In the case of the United Kingdom, the rate of increase in the number of employees in the United Kingdom is higher than the rate of They float from a 40 percent tax rate. They demand radical simplification in bureaucracy. They demand a German model debt brake. On the paper, they promote the aggregation of social security funds. You're a paper culprit! That has nothing to do with what you're doing in here! We have already presented all of this, but you are voting against it. Granted, not everything, the normal taxation of the13. 14th and 14th. Not monthly salary, but the aggregation of social security funds. I'll tell you: It will come the day where You must make a revelation: What ÖVP do we expect over the next few months and years? You don't know. With the “Her-mit-de-Zaster-and-Marie Group” or with the Economic Federation? Raidl also says that there are so many ÖVPs, one has no uniform address. That's why you should not be surprised if you don't get the full advance confidence from us, because you won the election last year on the basis of a suffrage, with almost 50 percent if you can call it winning. They have deliberately seized billions of taxpayers to cover up the truth of the hypo-deaster until after the election day. And this is the fall of this government! That's why it's hard for you to express your confidence here. The fact that we are not participating in the motion for a censure today has to do with the fact that we want to uphold this joint project of a common style here today, and also with the fact that we believe it is the wrong time. But one thing I say to you in conclusion: We will closely monitor every step of yours – both of you and of you as well. [[towards SPÖ]] [[towards ÖVP]] Feel closely observed over the next few years. We'll put our fingers in the wounds, and they're numerous.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e11499	The next speaker was Mr. Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e11521	Mr President. So that we now have to suffer for the historic withdrawal of love you have experienced in the ÖVP, that, I think, is a very bitter matter. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I don't know how many more speeches you'll need to have this finished, but on the relaxed faces of the ÖVP delegates I think to realize that they're all happy that you're not with them anymore. [[Rejoicing at the ÖVP]] [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] I don't need to forgive physical notes: Movement in a standstill is something new for me, but I'm going to go down to see if it didn't exist somewhere. The whole thing is going on under the title “Many Noise for Nothing” by William Strolz, if you want, I translate it: Wilhelm Strolz. In any case, it's like: They come out here and say to the very interesting speech that the Vice-Chancellor has given here by presenting a really broad problem analysis – I have to say that there was of the CO2 [[Abg. Stroll: Me too!]] But You didn't say it. If you're right now, I have something of it right now, but the others don't; they would have liked to hear what you say about it – whether it's CO2, whether it's the beginning or the recurring financial and economic crisis, and what the answer to it is. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stroll.]] And you know, new beginnings can also mean: New beginnings in the opposition rhetoric, in the way we are dealing with each other and what you really are doing here. What you've done was the following: One is a mistrust request, and you're talking about distrust – in principle, it comes out the same thing, I have to say. [[Abg. Strolz: I told a story! Didn't you listen?]] [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Stroll: hard worked out!]] You know, I actually believed that we were meeting today and the government program is the basis, Clubobmann Lopatka has presented it here again. [[Phone call at the NEOS.]] We have a new composition of the government, for whatever reason – if you ask me, in the sum of tangible personalities. And I am convinced that this will be an interesting work, with which we will then also be critical, perhaps controlling, but there must also be a dispute, a discussion. A discussion can arise if one opens, dear Clubobmann Strolz. What you did was not an opening. [[Abg. Stroll: I'm not a therapist for you!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] – No, you’re not an austere, I know, but what it’s about me here is that you already know that, I already understood how you stood there; you wouldn’t have come up to the pult either. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Stroll.]] [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] What I am talking about is that we are trying to have this debate in view of the very difficult geopolitical situation and economic situation, namely, an honest discussion. This is the question – this is actually the question of the members of the government: What are the scope of policy in modern times? – You should discuss this honestly and openly! It doesn't make sense to be embedded in the European Union, in the global fabrication, in the logic of the financial markets, in the Austrian logic of the political system – there are many logics. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Pirklhuber and Mr Strolz.]] There you have to sit down and discuss it openly and honestly and do not draw room for action that has nothing to do with reality. That's what you're doing as an opposition; well, I did that a little bit back then, when I was still in the opposition. But: The members of the government should sometimes be honest enough where the limits of their scope for action are, so that citizens know what is an honest and credible announcement and what is just hot air, or just: “Many noises around nothing”, second act. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stroll.]] That's why I'm doing it! And I'll find the chance to stop the calls! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Stroll.]] [[In the direction of Federal Minister Rupprechter:]] Could you not give him an apple? That would be good for his health, and I could keep talking. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as with representatives of FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] [[Abg. Stroll: way too long in this high house!]] So it would be useful, I think, if we were to try to really deal with it. To talk about pensions so fluently – these are millions of pensioners who have real problems getting through with the money. [[Abg. Stroll: I said yes! And you're to blame! Increase ASVG!]] You can't make yourself there and say: Bullshit! Bullshit! Bullshit! Nothing is solved with “Swaps!”! That's where you have to make yourself and say what's really going on. The second is – and I am not quite of an opinion with the former Minister of Finance Hannes Androsch, whom I otherwise valued very much; I respect the teaching of quantities, without doing so, I know that myself, but there is de facto also justice: A society is also based on solidarity and justice. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Stroll: luxury pensions!]] - No, no! Let us talk about the 83 000 millionaires and the 33 billionaires that I have heard today!There's probably someone there. I mean, You should talk about it too! This is a principle of justice – not just the multitude, not just the efficiency! In order to achieve cohesion in a society, it is important, I believe, that this is treated in a serious way. But that's gonna be wiped away from you. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] It is even more difficult to make a medium-sized tax out of it, because you have to have 500 000 millionaires, so I can't do that completely. I think you'd have to do a little bit of that, although the vice chancellor has worked a little bit with the teaching of quantities today, but he has signaled that he wants to deal with it very seriously. He's been signaling that, I think, and when he sees it like that, we're really glad. [[Rejoicing and applause at SPÖ]] We really want to enter into this dialogue, and you know, I appreciate many of your statements and your appearances and your expressions – you actually speak whole-body. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] There one should try to move forward in this direction, knowing well that this alone is not the solution; we all know that. We will have to think about the expenditure side as much as we do with some revenue; we all know that. But there should also be respect for the factor of justice – that is also a Christian value, Mr. Vice-Chancellor! We will once turn to the core layers of your party to discuss the Christian as well. It is also a Christian value. It is about cohesion, it is about that we are strong enough to really address the challenges of the new era – whether employment, growth, digitalised society, the aspect of democracy, the whole interweaving and networking, all that is related to it – as a national question – and this with the greatest possible involvement of the opposition, which I already look so hungry because it wants to cooperate. [[Abg. Kickl: You have to explain this to Mr. Stöger!]] I'll be glad.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e11787	Mr Auer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e11808	Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Yes, Mr Strolz, the master of rhetoric Josef Cap has now missed you a record! Now you're sitting there like a shot-off flight. [[Cheerfulness and applause with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] It hurt a little bit, I understand. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stroll.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, the following words describe the current situation particularly strikingly, they are from Albert Einstein: ‘Make order where there is confusion. Bring balance into discord. In all difficulties there are always possibilities.” As I said, these words are from Albert Einstein, and we have done the first point of this statement. [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: Every disadvantage has an advantage! That's my grandma's!]] It is now up to all of us to bring balance into discord, because fact is, the image of the government, the coalition was not the best in recent months. Let's not think about it, that's it! We should therefore also take advantage of the opportunities and opportunities there are. Yes, politics has become swift, that is undisputed, the events overlap. What was yesterday doesn't count anymore, sometimes the next day is forgotten. But I still see this a little different. I plead for a respectful relationship, ladies and gentlemen, for a political discourse and a discussion that takes place at an eye level. I regret that there is already a distrust request today, where some have not even had the chance to introduce themselves to the program. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Kickl and Mr Glavischnig-Piesczek.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It would have to be possible, as was usual, to get a chance for 100 days. [[Abg. Kickl: Period over!]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Belakovich-Jenewein, Mr Meinl-Reisinger and Mr Strolz.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There are a number of new ministers, a number of new tasks, assignments, and there the opposition should be so fair to give them a chance. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Kickl, you said, if you are the speaker of Mr Strache, that there were some who have been here for many years, that is, old members. [[Abg. Kickl: You too!]] – Yes, I am also one of the older parliamentarians, that is undisputed; I am also proud of it, because you will not be here for so long, I guarantee you, ladies and gentlemen! [[Ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: That's what we're waiting for!]] And I'll tell you something else: If you're talking about old age, you'll also say that your clubman is the oldest party leader here in this house if you're already addressing the service age. [[Abg. Kickl: good! - Oh, my God!]] This is his case, your case, but then don't throw new members of the government from the outset, take note of this! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Wenninger.]] So much resistance should you also have with your pointed tongue, so much resistance should you have. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Kickl: with all the stupidities!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity to thank two people in particular and to show them my respect: at the late National Council President Barbara Prammer for the excellent cooperation here in the High House and, of course, also with our former vice chancellor and party chairman Michael Spindelegger. His resignation – and this is undisputed, I have also said that in a mediate way – was quite understandable in these circumstances. I wish him all the best, and I expressly thank you from the point of view of the rural population; it was possible to reconcile things that kept them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Nevertheless, it is in life that life must go on, and government work must continue. This very quick decision, clear and clear, makes it possible to signal a restart, implement it. It will be up to all of us to support this, because the population is expecting a corresponding work by the government. It expects more material work, less dispute. There are also enough issues that have been dealt with in detail today, and we must deal with them very quickly and effectively. Ladies and gentlemen, I would simply like to point out that the Ukraine crisis with all the human suffering – and you cannot go beyond that – is not only visible from the point of view of the economy, although it is happening to us all. We are dramatic, but it must also be said clearly that such attacks in civilized countries are unthinkable. This must also be noted by Mr Putin. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have difficult economic forecasts, significantly reduced prospects, and it is therefore important to ensure stability and security. On government reform: I'm glad that Reinhold Mitterlehner is the new vice-chancker. I've known him for a long time, he's certainly purposeful and can also contribute to the recovery of positive aspects due to his political experience and his economic expertise. This applies to all the members of the government who were newly praised yesterday and who stand up to the debate today. Let's give them a chance! Ladies and gentlemen! The ÖVP stands for property, this is to be protected. A few days ago, an expert – that is what he is called – said that it was necessary to access the basic tax. That's what I'm asking myself very slowly. I mean, quite specifically, Mr. Chamber of Labour, Muhm. He said if a farmer owned 10 hectares in the west of Austria, he would be millionaire because a hectare of land would have a value of € 100 000; if one owned 20 hectares, it would be possible – according to its issue – to pay a property tax of € 5 000. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ and the Abg. Stroll.]] This expert should ask himself how much remains if an average yield of 7 000 kilos of wheat can be obtained at a price of 145 € per tonne. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stroll.]] This farmer would have to sell a hectare of land every five years, so that he can pay this thoughtful asset tax. It seems to me that the farmer is selling the cow so he can buy himself a milking machine. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stroll.]] That will not be the case, I say that quite clearly, ladies and gentlemen. If not, Mr Strolz, if not! [[In the case of the ÖVP, the members of the FPÖ and the Agg. Steinbichler.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stroll.]] And if you think that a tax reform can be financed by means of a counter-funding from the basic tax – you yourself know that the basic tax B in Austria is €630 million per year – and if you want to achieve a substance of €3 to €4 million, then you need to simplify this basic tax. Then I wish the tenants much success! This price explosion is supposed to represent others – we and I are not!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e12010	Next speaker: Mr Kickl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e12042	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, who for the time being have taken you for the last time, but certainly for the ultimate last time, to a restart! High house! Well, you know, I'm actually an optimist, yes, more: I am even convinced that good policy can only be done if one is optimistic about the matter. This is a fundamental conviction with which I have actually entered politics. But now, after many, many years of political experience, you have to face a completely different situation. You, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and of ÖVP, and nobody else in this country has made it so far that in the meantime we have reached a point where we must save optimism from your policy. That's the point, and we'll give you the answers. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] One of these answers is the mistrust you don't want to understand. What have you been up to in recent times?- Oh, my God! What have you not produced, I say, under the title and claim to bear a government responsibility in this country?- Oh, my God! – If you have been talking about government responsibility, you have not meant anything but the administration of the standstill – and to all the abundance you have also explained the standstill to stability. That was one of the wrong developments you've brought to bear in this country. What did you not do for “games” – under quotation marks – if you spoke of your state-bearing role, where it has only been a back-and-up of unsustainable conditions where we would have needed reforms for a long time?- Oh, my God! – One of optimism is passing away, and there is a need to secure optimism from you, and every scepticism is appropriate. And because the actions are not new – not in the positions in which they sit up there, or because they would never have been in any political gear before – that is why a mistrust request from our side is the corresponding answer to this failure. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You know, I could turn it around, I could say, too. Consider what it would mean if we trusted you! How many times have you brought the population to light? How many times have you been operating in here with false numbers? How many times have you passed the election? How often did this happen? Someone who gives you confidence today could just as well see himself exposed to the accusation that he is gullible, naïve or perhaps even stupid. We do not want to put off this accusation, ladies and gentlemen. We want to keep the critical distance to your drive, and the request for distrust is an expression of that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] You know, with your endurance parallels – the performance of Mr. Lopatka reminded me a little of this funny figure of Saddam Hussein in front of the gates of Baghdad: Continue to the bitter side, although you know that things are no longer durable at all – with your endurance paroles become Don't get this country on the right track. I am already at the Federal Chancellor Faymann: Mr Bundeskanzler, I ask you: Where are the fairness and justice that you tell at your party events with which you bust people in your remaining sections that you can read in all your issues and brochures? Where is this fairness and where is this justice to be found? I only know a fairness package from SPÖ, and it looks like we have a stagnation and a decrease in purchasing power at the ASVG-pensions, but at the same time a security pro futuro, over decades of luxury pensions. This is part of your fairness package, a fairness package of the special type of SPÖ. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Stroll]] In this fairness package is the non-valorization of family benefits within, the non-valorization of care, although you know exactly what invaluablely valuable service is provided in the care sector in the families. This is your form of solidarity and your form of justice. This fairness package offers an increase in unemployment because you cannot get through to protect the Austrian labour market – from the developments that come from the East and which were not at all foreseeable 10 or 15 years ago when this workpiece was planned with the opening of the East. That's how your solidarity and justice package looks! And because that is not enough, you have now born the next consideration: the basic tax – an excellent idea, we are expanding this solidarity and justice package further! You know that you meet the middle class with direct hardness and take off there once again – these are the victims of all your previous tax increases – and of course you meet all tenants indirectly. I can only remind you that sometime you have spoken of the fact that you should be able to afford to live in that country. This was a key message of social democracy in the last election campaign, and I am once again at the credible This is a great deal of political significance. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would expect a cynical discussion of Mr Cap with his own party. He is now in the educational institute and would actually have the task of doing analytical work there. That would be a task where you could critically deal with claim and reality within SPÖ. A fundamental work would be that, I can tell you. But also on the other hand, at the ÖVP, we have this problem, ladies and gentlemen. “Detachment of the economy!” – What detachment? At present, you are going into the gag, the European gag in dealing with Russia. That's the point. I'm not in favour of what Putin does, but I've never heard of you a word in the United States. I have never heard of you a word and a silent thought about sanctions when the whole world is stifled when you march into one country after another and there suspects weapons of mass destruction that you never find. I have never heard the word “punishment” from your mouth. I would think about that too! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What would be a real restart? – We have tabled a request for distrust – if you would agree, that would be a real restart. This would show that you are willing to take yourself out of the way. Between Austria and its successful future, only you stand behind me as you are. It would also have been a possibility for the President of the Federal Republic to intervene here, not only to use the competence for advocating a government, but also to throw it out once it has driven the loss of trust to the top and beyond, as you have done. Instead, he works the Hofburg to a kind of routing station for red and black Postenschacher, where one changes with the other and then one tries to sell it as a big restart. The people in the country ask themselves: How seriously are you taking yourself? As a State Secretary in the Ministry of Finance, someone is supposedly necessary, hardly worked in, or so half, so that he can say something more than the empty word asset taxes, then he changes the position and has arrived in another State Secretariat. What are you doing, ladies and gentlemen?- Oh, my God! These are just a few examples that show that a restart can't be a talk anymore. A restart – my last sentence, ladies and gentlemen – will occur in Austria when you go to the opposition and the Federal Chancellor is called H.-C. Strache.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e12191	The application submitted is properly filed and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e12245	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e12267	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! It will probably also need a little more, Mr Kickl. Perhaps we should remember this in stages – I do not understand why the Federal Government does not, I recognise a weakness – which has triggered the blessed activity of your all too young predecessors, namely in the FPÖ, in this Republic, namely, the introduction of the largest maladministration that has existed. But it is certainly a sign of the weakness of this federal government that it cannot defend itself better. I need to diagnose that at this point. But, in terms of the problems that have now been caught up by the Government Bank, namely, foreign and European policy, we really must admit that we are discussing luxury problems here again. Government change, the situation is dramatic and will have an even greater impact in social and economic terms. I do not want to say anything bad at all – I would like to put it forward again – because we often do so in our economic and financial policy contributions. At least as many indicators as you want – you may be standing on the indicators as you want – Austria is not as bad in Europe at all. It does not help if you are always talking about the highest numbers of unemployed and the highest of those. That's all right. At the same time, it is fair to see the relationships. In many areas, after the crisis, Austria is no worse than before in Europe, in some ways even better, and it is not quite wrong, as I think, to reflect it in between. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Now, Mr Auer is gone, but if he is already quoting Einstein, I have to say that I think the most passable and most transferable of Einstein in all situations of life is certainly that realization that everything is relative. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] Therefore, as an oppositionist one sometimes has difficulty when, so to speak, without counter-conceptions, some absoluteistic, gigantic accusations are engulfed. That alone won't do it. Nevertheless, I have today – so much European policy must be, after it has been taken by Chancellor Faymann above all – here I have missed the information as the new or even the Austrian line should look out when it comes to the crises that arise. I am not yet talking about the economic and social crisis in Europe, because time may not be enough. But what is happening to the Ukraine crisis is the role of Austria, in my opinion, at least unclear, and the government will have to get through to anything, even though wisdom does not have to be eaten with the spoon. But one thing is certainly not going: that, under the applause of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, down with a snarling head of government, as is rolled out in the Chamber of Commerce above the red carpet, in order not to say, degoutantly rolled out with muzzle, all of them applauding Mr Putin It is possible to joke and our foreign minister, who is really a media artist of the special class, as measured by his age, perhaps there is something about swimming on the bow shaft at that time and giving off the breakfast director for this line. But when the European Union entered a completely different line, Austria was not there and said within the European Union – I find the line of FPÖ more consistent – please, we would be at least still negative, we propose the following for this and the reason. I mean, we've been away from a Kreisky's tradition for a long time. I also do not know what the failure is, but what is being delivered here is certainly the wrong thing. Either you think of this role as a mediator or you would have had something, but that has been messed up, I think, then it would not have required this strange acting, embarrassing, I would say, in the European context, by the way, only motivated by economic interests, which was even argued inconceivable. This was the same Mr. Leitl, who now draws into the Economic Chamber election campaign with expensive ads in the “Kronen Zeitung” – Economic Chamber contributors, look here! – there, something tells you, Putin has made the farm and even even has a small gags for it. Then the wind turns in the Union, not even that has been recognized, but it has already turned out in itself where the journey will go. The sanctions are coming and getting worse, you might see. And suddenly, you don't hear from Austria, we're back there. The same Foreign Minister will be having breakfast again, again cameras, chickens, super. So if this is the Austrian line on this question, I say good night. [[Congratulations with Greens, FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] I have mentioned it only because the Chancellor obviously used this failure of Austria as an attempt to escape in order not to explain today's reform of the government at all. Perhaps he doesn't have to, if black country leaders shoot a black vice-chancer, he can afford it. But now for the relative good to Einstein. It's a chance, of course, I don't want to disapprove of that at all. Since we are already with the federal states and on the question of the necessary reforms, I do not want to hide that at least I personally, and I know from some in the Green Group, very much hope in you, Mr Finanzminister, that something will also move here, regardless of all ideological directions. Mr Rossmann will continue to comment on the tax reform concepts. Our positions may not be completely unknown anymore. But if we look at the expenditure page, for which we of course also have an eye, there is rather the question of reform, which is not going on here, because because not people of the opposition are blocking something somewhere, if you invite the opposition from the government bank to cooperate, no, these are your most important competitors, your most powerful people, even so powerful that you as the Federal Government often cannot prevail, then I must say that will be the relevant question. I have remembered from many public appearances, but also from some personal discussions, that you, Mr. Finanzminister, are very ambitious and, from our point of view, as I think, really analyze things properly. I would just like to say the following: the transparency of the promotion, especially in the field of economic promotion, not only where it concerns the small association, which may take over social tasks, which then save us a lot of money, but really the classical economic promotion, where corporations, exactly those who write the most profits, receive the most money, from federal banks, for which we have the responsibility to have the tax authority and to take in the money, and to distribute it. This is one thing you will be able to measure, just as well as in school policy and health reform, which has very large economic components. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] You must know that better than many others, and that's a good sign for me too. [[The red light at the speaker's coil shines.]] If I really interpret this right now, it's actually my speaking time. [[President Hofer: That is correct!]] Yeah, then let's leave it with the good omens.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e12342	Mr Vetter. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e12364	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! High house! The opposition has already asked the right questions: What to expect from the new government? Can the new government expect to overcome the long-term downturn? The standstill has two reasons, one called SPÖ and the other ÖVP. And as the clubman of NEOS has already drawn in his very funny picture, there is a red ring game that stops. There are, of course, reasons for this. I have already mentioned in my first speech the disproportionate influence of the Trade Union Confederation. Of course, the union union as a representative of interests has a completely legitimate role, but if it prevails in a party, the representation of interests in Parliament takes precedence. And if a party becomes, so to speak, a pre-discipline organization of an interest organization, then the standstill is precisely programmed. You from SPÖ do not only need trade unionists, because if you have previously heard Mr Cap's Government Rehearsal, you will notice that you have original word messages outside the union, but not every word from Mr Cap has to be put on the gold scale. I wrote, as Mr Cap said, “in the sum” the members of the government are“ cordial personalities”. Let's just take this picture a little bit. If it is said that “in the sum” there are “mighty personalities”, there are individual Summands, and if you sum up the Summands and finally have only “in total personalities”, then that means that at least two are left, and that means that in the Summands there may also be zeros or minus personalities if there are only “in the sum visible personalities”. Cap did not even say that in the majority there are tangible personalities, but “in sum” there are tangible personalities. So if you put this picture a little on the gold scale, then you come to the conclusions that may only apply to a political group and not to both. [[Cheerfulness and applause with Team Stronach, FPÖ and NEOS.]] Mr Cap has also focused on his elegant nature on certain things to the coalition partner. It was probably a wishful thought, but it was seen that the Minister Mitterlehner had turned away a little bit. Similarly, the situation within the Austrian People's Party is similar, but the conflicts are much publicized when you hear it. Although: You are also talking loud about the November part-session and asking the so-called core question. Her former ÖVP partyman, Mr. Michael Spindelegger, has tried to involve the most important ÖVP representatives and federal representatives in the consensus process – and has ultimately failed exactly what he has always tried to keep together. When I heard that Reinhold Mitterlehner is the design leader of the ÖVP party, did I think: a chamberer, a deviceist, a continuation of politics, perhaps even a left-wing truck? If I look at today's book Mitterlehner as the first Vice Chancellor here, namely one of the trade union, I also thought: Well, what's going to be that, what's he reading at home? – But perhaps this assessment is too far-reaching, because the first great surprise that Mitterlehner has delivered was the one with the occupation of the Ministry of Finance with Hans Jörg Schelling. I think this is interesting in three ways. First of all, the ÖVP Niederösterreich has obviously been booted out in accordance with all the rules of art, and if a high-ranking representative of the ÖVP Niederösterreich still says after the appointment of Schelling that she would have “loved an expert” she would have wanted, then this may sometimes have a deep look. In total, however, I find it encouraging if special interests do not prevail. And just as gratifying it is that the Bunde-Thinking in the ÖVP has obviously not come to bear. I remember when a representative of the Federal Farmers' Federation once said aloud that the Federal Party will already know what second ministry he will assign to the Farmers' Federation, and I really do not know why this should be a qualification feature. So if one has now left this bundle structure in the ÖVP, I can only congratulate the ÖVP in this respect. A third surprise is that someone who has been nominated as Minister of Finance is ahead of the reputation that he has economic understanding and improver qualities. Such qualities are particularly important in the current situation, as the tasks are well known to be diverse. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] On the subject of tasks. First: The government debt is up and running. Secondly, The Republic has three national banks to deal with. Thirdly, At the Hypo Alpe-Adria, a process avalanche threatens. Fourth: Both tax reform and administrative reform are to be addressed. Fifth, you open a bottle The federal states are to be found in their desires, which must be shown at the next financial compensation. One more word: I do not believe, as the Green Group has pointed out in some way, that it is about the qualification of loving handling in the Ministry of Finance, because you will have to deal with this tax reform, which is in all its mouths. I repeat the proposal for a graduated tax reform. without making counter-financing, making tax reductions over several years, for example in 3 percent distances, so that you actually get out without a counter-financing. Reduce tariffs in small steps to avoid loss of revenue. To that end, I wish you, Mr Finanzminister, all the best and hope that you will meet the expectations that will be placed in you, for good cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e12464	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Meinl-Risinger. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e12485	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear viewers! The resignation of the ÖVP partyman and finance minister Spindelegger came quite surprisingly, surprisingly at least the time. It is also partly surprising in terms of government reform at this time. Why Do I Say “Now ”? – Because nobody, no observer, expected that the previous government team will remain in office until 2018. That was a good time. Now, government reforms, human rochades always have the Nimbus of a certain reboot, you are also trying today to conjure up this picture; it is just mantra-like as you promise here again, but now really everything will be different. They promise a certain fresh wind. – I say it’s at least a little hint, a hint of hope. But now I'm coming to the big but. My colleague Klubobmann Strolz has spoken about the deep gap that can be found in the ÖVP, and I believe that today this wind has already been reduced to a haucherl; it can be seen after Mr Auer's speech, which has already been raised here within the ÖVP, that the discussion on a basic tax, as it was still initiated by Minister of Finance Spindelegger, is not in question. This means that the peasantry has set a strong mark here. And I think all of us will be able to observe how this gap will grow in the future. To trust. The subject of mistrust has already been discussed. Mr Cap, you only need to look at the index of trust: trust in the government, in individual members of the government. It is not true that only we here are talking about mistrust or lack of confidence, but you only need to listen to the population. Our reasons why we don't go there today have we mentioned. But I would like to stress: This government conversion is a personal rochade. And here I claim that the problems of the Federal Government and, in particular, the problems of the Austrian People's Party are not human – or say: not only. There are also personnel involved; “to sum up, ” or how was that previously? The problems are mainly structural. And the problem is: With a personal rochade, you can't hide over the deep structural problems you have within the Austrian People's Party, which you have within the SPÖ and which also has this Federal Government. Where do the desires come from? It is clear that the national leaders, the alliances, the chambers, the trade unions, the Kotau in front of each individual situation of interest. You're a paper culprit, that's already been mentioned. We have heard a lot again today, and I do not want to hide that we NEOS quite satisfied are with the content of the new members of the government, but: We are talking about projects, full-fledged projects, which have been set out here, but I am actually talking about this federal government as a means of moving forward structural reforms, which would be necessary in Austria. This will not change; You may now be able to get a certain amount of confidence back a few weeks, but I am sorry that this will change very quickly. What did it need? – Austria 3.0. It was mentioned today – I think Mr Kickl has said that – that this federal government is between Austria and the future. Of course, this is a bit overcrowded, but in the face of the threat of war at our doorstep, in the face of a threatening deflation, in view of the growing economic crisis, it is indeed urgently necessary to bring about structural reforms. This is a federalism reform. You know that. We must come to a real federalism of responsibility, away from a donor federalism. That will be a central task. Of course, we need to invest in the future of this country, in its research location, in its scientific location. And above all, we need – and I am very excited whether the ÖVP will make a change in its course – investments and a definitive restart in education. The new Vice-Chancellor has made a number of statements indicating that he will pursue a different line from that of the further blockade of an educational reform. I hope so, because we need an expansion of the school of the whole day, we need a real effort that we really use every student in the talents, we need a middle maturity for all students, where basic skills, core competences need to be communicated and checked, and we need a comprehensive school autonomy. At this point my appeal, this federal government can really bring these essential steps on the way! Some quotes have been quoted, for example by Presidents of the Chamber of Commerce, Leitl, regarding a quality offensive in the early childhood education sector. I think this is very essential, that is the foundation of education; also, of course, the need to think about the need to reform the education of educators and educators to ensure that it is raised to a tertiary level. Total: Four more years no one can bear anymore! If this government transformation does not actually, in addition to a change in staff, promise a structural reform, a structural change – as I said, according to Mr Auer, I am more than skeptical in this regard – then you will permanently damage Austria. My thesis is: Real renewal will only take place if red and black no longer have a majority and this constant accumulation of interests from chambers and trade unions will no longer take place in this form.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e12556	Mrs Bundesminister Dr. Oberhauser has made a statement on the matter. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e12577	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen from the National Council! In my life, I have been allowed to see the health care from very, very many perspectives. I've got it after I've got it. I decided to study medicine, worked as a care assistant, then emulated, then worked as a doctor. What I have taken away from time as a care aid – for those who do not know: you are mainly busy cleaning night castles, and so you have a lot of time to talk to the patients – is that what is missing a lot is time to listen to time for spending, time. This is not only missing the patients, but also missing the staff. The longer I worked in the system, the more I felt that a lot of bureaucracy and a lot of other activities have taken people – and there are more than 110 000 people across Austria working in health care – away from the patient. And this makes dissatisfaction, which creates dissatisfaction with the profession on the one hand and dissatisfaction on the part of the patients on the other. That is, if I have learned something, then you have to try to get people closer to the patient again, that you have to try to get help and find simplification in the bureaucracy, in the routine that is given in many areas. End Second, I met when I decided to become a pediatrician, and I was also lucky to find a training centre. I was active in neonatology, in a children's room, and there you have to deal with early and newborns. Even if you think that newborn children are all somehow the same if you give them to your parents, you're trying to understand them or look forward to them, how the way these children are going is going to be. This is not only based on the behavior of parents, but also on the conditions in which these children are released. It plays an important role in education, the education of parents plays an important role, the housing situation plays an important role. The times when one could read about the children's dental status, where they live, in which system in which district they live, these times should really be over. Minister Stäger has taken an important step with the free toothband, at least for a large part of those who need medical-induced dental clamps. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But I was also a patient in this system, as probably most of us. And if I know something, then that in Austria the wallet does not decide whether someone gets a chemotherapy, a new heart, a new hip or a therapy. A solidary health system, a solidarity insurance system in which the healthy pay for those who are sick, is enormously worth it. A system like in America, where the credit card really counts at the entrance, that means that the doors and gates of hospitals often open up only when you have moved through the credit card, I do not want to have it in Austria, and therefore I will also use much of my strength to ensure that we do not have any further privatizations in the health system and that this system remains as it is, namely a solidarity funded. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of ÖVP and Greens.]] In his department, Federal Minister Stöger left me with both technical and content good preliminary work, and he also left me a house full of motivated employees. You can build on it, so you can work on it. I am very pleased that I first got the trust of the Federal Chancellor and then the President of the Federal Republic of Germany to see the health care now from a different perspective. I admit that the sitting here is still a bit in need of habit, but this has certainly not changed, is my willingness, which I believe I have already shown here as a colleague in the National Council, namely: to try to find consensus and to put the common foreign and security policy on the one hand and the other on the other. That will continue to be the case. It's my offer. I am looking forward to the cooperation and thank those who do not immediately withdraw my trust for giving me the confidence.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e12646	Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e12668	Mr President. Estimated ministers! Estimated State Secretary! Estimated State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear visitors! Mr Kickl, I think that you should consider withdrawing the motion for a reluctance at the latest following the remarks made by our new Minister for Health Sabine Oberhauser. It has proved a lot of competence, and it has also proved that confidence is well justified – in it and in all the others sitting on the central bank of ministers and ministers. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The new minister has now described to me very impressively the areas from which she has come to know the health policy in Austria. She also met her as a health spokesperson, which she did not even address. She has sent many health goals with Minister Stäger over the past few years, many reforms on the way. She has come to know health policy as part of the system, as she has now said, and she has also met politics in Austria as a trade unionist, i.e. she knows what negotiation means. I think it is precisely in the health system that this negotiation, this willingness to compromise, to put the common voice before the parting, will be in demand in the next few years, and therefore I am really convinced that Sabine Oberhauser is very, very well-occupied with these posts. I also met Sabine Oberhauser as a colleague, determined, compromised, ideologically solidified – this is also important, we have heard today from President Hofer, who is now chairing the presidency – and I have met her as a human being and as a politician with a position. And I think that's what Sabine Oberhauser's work will do in the next few months and years. I am convinced that health policy is in very good hands over the next few months and years. I wish you, Mrs Minister, everything, all the good and a good luck in your new field of work! Good one of my side. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] However, I would also like to remind you at this point of what has been carried on in health policy in recent years, in a very difficult environment, as I believe. They all know that health policy is not only being made in the federal government, in the field of health policy there are always many partners/many partners, our system is based on federalism, and there is also a need for many ready-to-talent competitors. In my opinion, Minister Stöger has shown very impressively in recent years that one can carry on something with persistence, with consequence and – I always describe Minister Stöger so – unagitated, but in the matter always persistent and to the goal fighting and also taking action, which is important to keep the health system at that high level that we all know, that we all appreciate and that we want for ourselves in the next few years. Like Federal Minister Stöger, it is especially important in her health policy that the health system is equally accessible to all people that it cannot be seen on the wallet which social conditions the individual families have. I think a lot has really happened, and I would also like to address a few points that have been implemented in recent years, because I think you always forget too quickly in political everyday life that much is being worked on and that much is also implemented. I recall that, with Federal Minister Stöger and also with the new Finance Minister, the cash recovery actually took place. In 2008, the local health phone had over a billion debts – in 2014 there will be a surplus of €62 million. And this, ladies and gentlemen, although the benefits have been extended by the way! A performance has already been addressed: the free gears for children who have a medical indication. But that's just a performance that's been expanded. A vaccination programme has also been implemented so that there are free vaccinations for children; a measure that was entirely important by the Federal Minister Stöger. Performance extensions were made in the mother-child pass. I only call one that is very important to me, namely the advice of midwives for pregnant women; a very, very important measure for women. It was also possible to use the “ Pill after ” too. – All the services that could be implemented despite the cash recovery. The health reform was decided. There will be a partnership target management system, and a Federal Objective Control Commission will ensure that this health reform is actually implemented. – Despite the difficult negotiations with the countries! I think a really great decision, which, in my view, is far too little appreciated in the public, or which one may not notice, but a decision that will actually reform the health system in the next few years and which has already been reformed or reformed. Unfortunately, my time has already come, at least my speaking time today – yes, but I am also a colleague, and there are other colleagues in my group who still want to speak. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: The limit on speaking time is overvalued, we have seen today!]] Finally, I would simply like to say that I am convinced that in recent years we have had a very, very good health minister, who was particularly important to the people in the system – of course also the doctors, but his focus is always on people – and that we will be given a particularly good minister with Sabine Oberhauser, who will continue this course. Finally – perhaps because it fits so well – to Federal Minister Stöger: He has put many, many choices in the health system, he will also put them in the infrastructure ministry. Good luck and good luck, Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e12719	Mr Rasinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e12741	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister! High house! I would like to begin by thanking two people, one Minister Stäger, with whom I have often argued, but in the end we have had a united bond, namely the patient and the human form in which we want to deal with the patients. That's very important. The second one I would like to thank is the former head of the association Schelling, who has been involved in this difficult health system in a sensational short time, and who, of course, also needs to see the unpleasant side of health care, because someone has to pay the whole thing we wish for here. In this sense, the last five years were not in vain years, but they were good years. I want to say that a health minister has a really difficult job. In my opinion, this task is more difficult than any pension reform because so many conditions must be observed. The Minister of Health will be more like a Sisyphus than anything else. There are four main parts to be considered. First – Mrs Oberhauser has already said it –: Solidarity between healthy and sick, old and young, rich and poor. It's not that easy. America has already been mentioned, but also in Austria, enough young people ask: What do we need all of this for? But hardly anything happens, it says: Please, pick up the grandma! Get me the helicopter! Who can get a bed in Vienna? Where's the best doctor? Thank God we are healthy longer, but it can catch everyone immediately, and unfortunately often too early. Secondly, As a politician, one cannot go beyond the wishes of the citizens, and the desire of the citizens is to live long and live well. Since the latest I also hear, it's nice to grow old. Thirdly, Can we afford this? We are probably the third most important country in the EU if I have read the statistics correctly. Health care is about 6 to 8. In performance – this is very difficult to measure – I think we are among the best five systems in the world. Fourth: This is a huge growth factor. People are getting older, the medicine is more powerful, the lawyers are demanding more and more security. Roland Berger said that health care should not always be seen as a contribution debate, but it also has a huge opportunity. 80 percent of employees are women. And, as Mrs Oberhauser rightly said, the time factor is becoming increasingly important. The euro must arrive at the patient, I would now say economically as a non-economic. It doesn't make sense to spend a lot of money with useless guidelines, documentation or anything else, if sisters today only document 50 percent of their time around and they don't have time to talk to a patient for ten minutes or to hold his hand without being viewed badly, then something is wrong in the system. That should be changed, and I will be happy to give the Minister his hand. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] As one who has been allowed to care for patients in Meidling for 30 years and feels very happy, I know where the weaknesses and strengths in the system are. We're too spitasty in Austria. We take place one or two behind the Japanese at the World Championships in the hospital. We could get rid of that once. We could do more for the domestic doctors who unfortunately run away from us or what nobody wants to become. The young doctors don't want to stay in the country anymore. A third of the young colleagues turn their backs on Austria. I think this would be worth a deeper analysis of why someone leaves his home country and goes to England after a 250 000 € expensive training to Germany, Switzerland. I think there is a real need for action. New universities use only modestly, we already have to question: What's going on? Why do the young people not want to stay in the country? - You have to say that too. [[Abg. Karlsböck: We are the opposition!]] Austria's strengths lie in the endoprosthetics, in child cancer care, sensational, in breast cancer care we are far above the European average, 80 percent of women survive. When I started in the AKH, young women under 40 years of age, when they were suffering from breast cancer, died – today they survive. I think that's a value per se. It costs a lot of money, but that is a value, and we should also have the courage to talk about values in health policy. We have become very good in the Aukutherzinfarktsorgung, in the stroke care. [[President Hofer gives the bell sign.]] Our weaknesses now go to the point that we produce waiting times for the nuclear spintoography, significant waiting times. We have moderate care in pain therapy, and in the psychiatric system the private factor is very large. [[President Hofer gives the bell sign again.]] All in all: We have a good system, but good doesn't mean good enough. We're gonna have to work a lot. In this sense, I am reaching out to my former negotiator and colleague Sabine Oberhauser that we are moving forward a step further and that Sisyphus has some success in health care as well.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e12803	Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e12825	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mrs. Oberhauser, I am very pleased that you, as a doctor – and I have known you for a few years now – have made this political rise, and I congratulate you very much on it. I also think you were a good choice, but then it's over with the praise soon. I think you certainly have the stuff to do with this, because you've made it very far up in the union union, so you're a woman with permeability, which could also be a little bit further, but I think you have a very big problem: You're too much arrested for what your party wants, and if you can't solve it, then I'm afraid you won't even deal with the big health problems. What we have actually experienced in health policy in recent years is a failure to move forward. It didn't change anything. You yourself have not said much in your remarks, but a sentence has been remarkable to me. You have said that as a pediatrician you have thought about the further life course of the children you have cared for in neonatology. I can understand this well, so it is likely that anyone who works there knows which children are being cared for there. It is not about early childhood, it is about children who are affected by addiction problems, and all these cases. Of course, you have to think about it that goes far beyond the health system. But you, Mrs Oberhauser, have said another sentence, you have said that the children's dental status can be read from which environment or even from which residential district they come. – Yes, that’s probably right, as you say, but now I have to make a very big criticism: I mean, if you can still read this today, that's the failure of the last 30 years! And if we have a divorcing or a former health minister – he's not since yesterday – who spoke a year ago in the election campaign big about a “free tooth band” that was then decided here too, and you really don't know any more than that there were three rounds of negotiations without results, I wonder: How will that come? I believe that the free gear to which you have not said so much has been one of the biggest reproaches of the divorcing Minister of Health. He has so to speak presented them to the people in the election campaign, for all; they do them only for a very small amount if they would come at all. The second – that is, the second – I could now talk for hours about what there are still all the construction sites that you got from your predecessor – the second building site is certainly the breast cancer screening, which we only here in July – which means “we” – which was reformed here in July. I have asked several questions to the Federal Minister of Health Stöger, still in his capacity as Minister of Health, whose answers have given a clear picture in recent days. They show the fact that, in particular, the rates of new disease and the rates of new diagnosis in women over seventy years are quite high, but they are not automatically included. So I think there is a massive failure. I think you will also need to make further repairs if you want this program to be really successful. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I have also observed your priorities in the last few days. They have gone to the public with the demand for a total ban on smoking. I know that was already in 2006, I think your hobby when you came to the house here. They have not managed to enforce a total ban on smoking in their own SPÖ club. [[Federal Minister Oberhauser:! We've already done that!]] I hope that you will not be able to enforce what you want across Austria, because I think there must, of course, be some legal certainty. That's all wonderful what you said here, and that might be good or bad. But what I really missed was the real problems that you did not address: We have a massive medical shortage. We also have a massive reduction in medical ordinations, not only in rural areas. I tell you, we have here received a very, very detailed answer from your predecessor. In the years 2004 to 2013, we have a massive reduction in both general medical and medical ordinations in seven of the nine federal states as well as in professional coordinations. But it is not only about the real rural areas, because we have also been very beautifully broken down, namely in rural areas, in rural structures and in large cities. That's in the original color. [[Keeping a document in height]] And even in Vienna, cash doctor coordinations are now defective. So when I get together, What Mr Rasinger said about young colleagues moving abroad is something that we have not known since yesterday. We liberals made an event four years ago, where we also had the medical chamber president from Saxony. It's related to training. There is an acute need for action – with the fact that fewer and fewer cash offices are awarded. I wonder now whether all the praise is justified for the former head of the main association, because if you always save on the back of the patients and at the same time get fresh tax money into the system, then this is not the great economic performance that has been accomplished here. – No, it was the patients and taxpayers with the help of which the health insurance companies have been made operational to a certain extent. These are very, very many construction sites, Mrs. Federal Minister. I think one thing will be most important: that people in Austria can rely on it if they have a medical emergency that is really close to a doctor. That's where you've got to sit! Anything else, from smoking ban on free condoms, are side shows that may be nice, but they may not be your focus!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e12881	Mrs Mückstein. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e12903	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Dear colleagues Members! Yes, you have to be flexible in this Parliament. Hardly have I got used to my minister, he's already changing the place. Nevertheless, Mrs Oberhauser, I would like to congratulate you very warmly on your new role! I am very pleased that you are changing a woman with medical expertise and long-term political experience in this ministry. I believe that there is already the hope that the substantial reform process will be taken decisively into account in some very important areas. Mrs. Minister, I think you are waiting for very large tasks, such as the fight against the two-class medicine and the increasing economicisation in health care – that is a really important point – and above all the cash-financed treatment of mentally ill people. In addition, there are some other important supply gaps that we have mentioned more often. In her press release, Ms Oberhauser explained that she wanted to fight teeth and claws for the preservation of the solidarity system. I think that is very nice because I support such a clear and ideological attitude. At the same time, I hope that these words will also follow concrete actions, because I believe that the health system is facing a sluggish conversion from the solidar system to two- and multi-class medicine. More and more insured persons are making more and more private payments to get competent and quick help. There are very, very large performance differences, depending on the federal state and because of the fragmented cash situation. There is also a lot of inequality and lack of care – areas that should be rehabilitated. Private health expenditure was already 24 percent in 2011, rising in trend, especially in the outpatient sector. And this trend naturally favours two-class medicine. Whoever has the appropriate resources has the choice and provides better, faster and competent health care. If you don't have money, you have to accept long waiting times and handling times that will be done to you. Those who wish to strengthen a solidar system, a solidary funded health system, must also be credible for the harmonisation of benefits and for the aggregation of health insurance funds, for health care should not depend on income, but also on the reporting bill. I think that a good, solidary health system can only be good if the citizens, the insured who carry it, also understand the system in which they are moving, and if they can participate in this system. The health system must also become more transparent and democratic in the sense, and I expect you, Mrs. Minister, to support me in this approach, not only in the fight against two-class medicine, but also in the democratisation of the health care system – for example through social elections. Health must remain a state task! The health system cannot be organised in the treatment area without loss of quality and not without pressure on health professionals through market economy cost-effective bidder principles and supplier competitions. So I think there's a lot to do, too. But the most important concern – I repeat it again and again – is a restart in the treatment of psychologically ill. Especially in this area, we have an extremely narrow system break in the solidarity system. The cash-financed psychotherapy is quotaed. This is an individual case in the Austrian health system. If the quotas are exhausted, you will no longer receive cash-financed treatment. The system works according to the logic: Whoever comes first, grind first! More and more people are suffering from mental illness. This concerns people of all ages. There are more and more those who suffer from unemployment, workplace pressure, relationship, family, school problems. It is often the youngest and the oldest in our society. Austria finally needs an overall contract for cash-financed psychotherapy. At the moment, we only provide 10 percent of those who actually need it, and about half of them pay for their treatment from their own pocket. I would like you to give up this blockade policy and perhaps we can also work together to achieve a breakthrough in this matter and an overall agreement for psychotherapy, which would certainly help many, many people – and that is because I assume that as a doctor, you certainly know that very, very many people are being mistreated in medical practices, because they actually need psychotherapy instead of purely medical treatment. Of course, they can only afford them if they are cash-financed. In this sense: Good for the new task! I hope for good cooperation and, of course, I am happy to offer my willingness to talk and to cooperate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e12970	Mrs Dietrich is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e12991	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated government members! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Health Minister, I have met you in recent months as a woman with enforcement, with high personal commitment and as a person who can negotiate very hard in the matter. I congratulate you on the nomination! I am glad that we have a doctor at the head of the health system, because I believe that what we need is people with commitment, people who know the system, people who also know what they are talking about. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Knes.]] And I have great hope that you will not be through the unionist, but the doctor, when it comes to the patient, then when it comes to reforming this system. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps you can describe the Austrian health system in this way: It's a patient who's in his own corset in bed, can't move. In recent years, the health ministers have come, they may have given some vitamin, they may have given placebos, but never have worked on the cause, never on the system itself. I expect you, Mrs Health Minister, to make a clear diagnosis and, if you have this diagnosis, you will also take the right steps. Austria spends a lot on health. In international comparison, we are sixth. That is, 11.1 per cent of GDP, rising, we are one of those countries that are really concerned about human health. And yet we have patients waiting for a doctor's appointment for months. We have overcrowded ordinations, overcrowded ambulances, and many patients are sent in circle. We have hospitals where the location of regional politicians has been determined and not the medical need. We have hospitals where patients are on the go, and we have hospitals, such as in Mariazell, where you can only get sick on 13 days of 30 days at night, for the ambulance is only occupied more than 13 days at night. This is also part of the Austrian health system. We have an blatant medical shortage in the medical field, and we know that 56 percent of all practical doctors will retire in the next ten years. That means there's a huge need for action. [[President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:]] Dear Mrs Health Minister, I think it is important that we take a closer look at how many people we allow to study medicine. While there were 21,000 in the 1990 ’ s, last year there were only 13,000 people, 13,000 students. A third of them leave, so this lack of doctors will continue to grow in the future if we do not take very clear steps. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Wrong construction site!]] A health reform has been decided which is insufficient because the necessary measures, such as improved hospitalisation, adjustment of the performance differences in health insurance, a uniform allowance in the ambulance sector, a uniform donation of the national health funds, have not been implemented. We have 22 social security funds; 19 of them are involved in the health sector. This is simply too much, and we urgently need a reform. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We need Austrian health insurance, clear structures, simple structures, rigorous administrative reduction. In this sense, I would also like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I'm looking for acceptance.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e13070	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Dietrich is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e13175	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Hable. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e13197	Mr President. High house! Estimated government members! Citizens' values in front of the screens! I am not here today as a health speaker of NEOS, but as a representative of our health spokesman Gerald Loacker, he unfortunately had to return to his constituency, to Vorarlberg. [[Intervocations with ÖVP, FPÖ and Greens.]] You know, the Landle is already in the election fever, and therefore I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity to wish NEOS Vorarlberg all the best on this path. [[Unrest in the meeting room]] [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] We're a citizen movement. NEOS has been founded by citizens, for citizens. That is, we like to be on the road, and therefore I wish NEOS Vorarlberg all the best and fun along this path. On the real topic: Mrs Bundesminister Oberhauser, I congratulate you on the new role. That's not a light office you assume, everybody who knows the system. Minister of Health, Minister of Health is not the most grateful job of this Republic. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Being sick isn't funny either!]] You have a responsibility for health policy in this country, but you are naturally missing if you are honest, carrying skills to meet this responsibility. And that is what we are dealing with at the very heart of the issue, which is also the subject of health policy: Health reform is also an essential part of federalism reform. When we look at the current situation of competence, we see that we have a health ministry, but the hospitals are actually responsible for the countries. Health insurance is in the hands of the chambers. I must honestly say that I have never fully understood what chamber officials are able to manage social security. – But, well, that’s how it is! [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] And then there is very little competence left for the Ministry of Health, skills that you would actually need. Although the former Federal Minister Stöger has managed to bring these parties to a table in the framework of the health reform, namely federal government, state and social security, that is progress. But it is also just a step forward in this existing system, which is to be said explicitly. What is done with this health reform is unfortunately that Austrian federalism is being reconstructed. Unfortunately, Austrian federalism is not the good kind of federalism, but it is an organized responsibilitylessness. In this sense, it does not surprise how the health reform looks in terms of content: We have a Federal Objective Control Commission, and then, as it is so usual in Austria, we need the whole of it at country level, of course, and nine Land Target Control Commissions are added. This means, of course, that we need not only to have a federal target tax contract, but also to derive nine national target tax contracts from it, which does not make it easier for us to do so. The great task that will come to you, Mrs Bundesminister, is somehow to control this thing, this tanker health reform, which Federal Minister Stöger has sent to. As I said, this is a real step in the existing system, but it is certainly not enough in the long run. In any event, we would also like to see the established area strengthened. This also includes the fact that doctors can finally hire doctors. I just need to look over the inn in Upper Austria: In Bavaria this has been going on for many years, there is no problem there. Why aren't we? The 22 social security institutions have already been mentioned. There is no reason that we need so many social insurance companies in such a small country as Austria. It is a pity that you already rejected a change in this area yesterday in the “ZIB 2” interview. And of course, third and last point, we need more evaluation in the health system – as in the overall policy, more evaluation, more quality control. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: No, please don't! Mrs Minister, please don't! It's too much!]] We have a lot of black spots. This is also confirmed by experts. The quality of the health system is not to build a new hospital every 30 kilometres, but to ensure that patients, when they come to the hospital, meet well-trained doctors, on specialists. And good quality control, as is customary internationally, is a necessary contribution to this. Mrs. Federal Minister! For symptom control, we say quite openly, we are not available. If you really want to go into the depths, if you also want to recognize and address the federalism problem, we will stretch out our hands and be at your disposal for cooperation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e13272	Now, Mr. Federal Minister, Dr. Schelling, has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e13294	Dear fellow citizens! Mr President. Estimated colleagues on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Honourable Members! Six years ago I was also sitting in this place where you are now sitting, and I am glad that my return to the House was taken quite positively if I now also stand or sit on another side. I do not think that the tasks of the Ministry of Finance will be easy. There are a number of areas of problem that have arisen that have been highlighted by previous speakers. I am all the more surprised today that the issue has been raised by all the political groups – in different nuances – and we should focus on expenditure, because Austria has an expenditure problem and not a revenue problem. Therefore, I believe that it is a good day when everyone – with different nuances – represents this view. This is a good requirement for us to be able to actually implement what we have done in the future, namely to take a stable budget course. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as with representatives of SPÖ and Team Stronach.]] We all have a common responsibility, that is to say to citizens, because we have to keep aware that the money we spend has the source of citizens. They pay taxes, they pay social security contributions, and I think we are both from the government bank and from Parliament, but especially I, as Minister of Finance, are calling on us to deal with this money carefully by citizens. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and Team Stronach as well as the Abg. Feichtinger.]] That's one of the goals I've set myself. I think that you, as Members of the House, will understand: In reality, we are obliged to pay taxes. And that is why we need to consider exactly what new demands are coming – in a situation where the budget hardly allows room for room. We have three points that I see as a challenge. One – and the most important point from my point of view – is budget consolidation. We have jointly decided on a double budget. We've set a path. We are invited to observe this path with high discipline and participation of all. I think this is a path that we can and must reach, because otherwise we would have less room for play. I would also like to say this in this clarity, because it has always been criticized that we would not have been willing to tell the Austrians the truth. I'll tell you: We have a tense budgetary situation, where we have little or no room for manoeuvre on the part of the expenditure side. What's more, the forecasts – you've been following all of this in the last few days – are worsening, which, of course, brings great challenges for the budget and for the budget path. The forecasts are still very heterogeneous, but realistically we have to accept as growth in about what Mr Vice-Chancellor said today, and this also means that great effort is needed in order to actually realize the 2015 budget path. The problems raised in the international world – Russia, Ukraine, as well as others – are not exactly conducive to economic activity, and therefore we must make every effort there to get back under control of growth and employment with determined action. That we want to pursue a policy that we see as a common responsibility, and that has already been said today, that we have the responsibility to leave a good state for our children and grandchildren, which means that all disciplines are required so that we can realize it. I believe that it is important that we are therefore guided by what has often been announced – which I have often criticized – that we finally take up reforms courageously, are measured by the citizens, and that we finally realize it. We need a slimmer state, we need a more efficient state, and a more slender and efficient state will at least be closer to citizens. I believe that this must be taken as a common objective as well. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP, with representatives of SPÖ and Team Stronach as well as the Abg. Scherak.]] This Federal Government and this Parliament have already adopted offensive measures which we are now implementing. There's billions in motion. I am thinking only of the expansion of childcare, flood protection, basic research, but also of broadband development and other offensive measures. I stand by it and make every effort to ensure that we do what we have been doing for many years – not to say: For decades – citizens are promised an administrative reform. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, Team Stronach and NEOS.]] I believe that we are creating exactly the scope we need for tax reform through these reform steps. Now I know that a reform – I know from the healthcare system – is not going that fast. But when the Federal Government ordered us to make 1 billion €725 million of consolidation measures – in the sense of cost reduction, not savings – this has led us to work on it over five years and reach €2.7 billion in cost reduction, although more and more money has still come into the system. This is proof that we need a revenue-oriented expenditure policy. And if we succeed, we will no longer discuss the issues of the sustainable deficit in the form of today's issues. But if a state takes 4.7 percent more and spends 4.8% more, it will be critical. This, I believe, should be seen together in the responsibility we all have – and not only the Minister of Finance, not only the government, but also the Parliament with all its political groups. I believe that the third point, which has been referred to many times, is central to the question of tax reform, because the interactions of this tax reform – and I say “tax reform” – will help us to create growth and employment. That is why I am in favour, and I have also publicly said that we need urgent action there. But a reform is also about simplification, waste and relief, and not just about relief. I'm asking everyone that we don't always start things from behind. We have been discussing counter-financing for a long time now. This will be important at the end of the day, but we do not yet know the volume, timing and stages of this tax reform. That is why a process has been set up that I fully support, which I will also drive forward. The schedule is known to you: There should be a concept by autumn, an interim report should be carried out in autumn – Mrs Dr. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Until which autumn?]] Belakovich, I will explain it to you then extra ; yes, please! – and in March of next year we want to have a political decision-making process. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Thank you!]] That's what I'm talking about. But I also say: If the economy develops as it develops, the project will of course become increasingly difficult. I therefore invite you to participate, and that is what I mean – for everyone who does not know me – very seriously. I invite the finance and budget speakers to enter into a dialogue with the Minister for Finance. I guarantee you that even if I do not like your proposals, I will examine them carefully, and I believe that with this common procedure we can hopefully achieve that, on the one hand, we will have to create the margin for reform on the other hand and not be financed by new taxes. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that good conditions have been created when we work together on it. I am actively expressing this invitation, and I would like to put Mr Kickl, who is not present in the hall, on the way: For him, I make a private body so he comes out of his knowledge celibacy. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e13377	The next item is the speech by Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e13398	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The dialogue will have to be conducted in the area of tax policy, tax policy, and I believe that we should also separate various lines of discussion here. They are gladly mixed and mixed, although they have little to do with each other and for themselves. The first discussion, which is being held, always concerns the question of the tax and tax rate, how high it is. Now we need to know that the level of the tax and tax rate is determined primarily by defining: What tasks does the State have? What tasks do we perform in private and in common, in solidarity? There are also countries which have a significantly lower tax and tax rate, for example, because they privately dissolve the health system or parts of the health system – and not in common, not in solidarity – and thus the tax and tax rate is lower. The tax and tax rate only means: What part of our life do we organize in common, and what kind of private organization do we organize? – This is actually the translated tax and tax rate. The second question is: How efficiently does the state work? – Since, I think, our opinions are very close to each other, that it is necessary to keep the state very efficient, that it works very efficiently, that it works well, that it is slim – but in the sense of fit! So the state is supposed to be slim and fit – and not slow and slow, but slim and fit – so that it is effective and works. There we are, I believe, absolutely on the line, and in the Social Democrats you always have a partner a hundred percent when it comes to the fact that the state is to function efficiently. The third question, and I think this is the crucial question in the field of tax policy, is: What is the tax structure? The first question is: What services or what part do we organise in common, national and non-private? The other question, however, is: How do we pay that? – It is true today that we pay for this in particular by the fact that those who go to work carry almost all of this burden, and those who have capital income or wealth make no or only a very small contribution. This is a mistake and a major problem that we have in our tax structure. That is why we say that we must reduce taxes and taxes on work and, on the other hand, because it is a structural question, we must make corresponding increases. And I think it is very good for you, Mr Federal Minister, to say that you are not talking about tax reduction, but about tax reform, because in this area it can only be about this structural change, namely that taxation on labour, which is highly taxed today, is lowered and that wealth or capital, which today is taxed very, very low – and unquestionably low also in international comparison – is taxed higher, so that we can compensate for this wrong situation that we have today. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] That means that you have a partner in us, in any case, when it comes to changing this tax structure, simply to create more justice on this issue. Because, and that's what you really have to say, every international comparison shows: In hardly any country, those who have capital income or wealth contribute so little to the common as in Austria. And you will hardly find a country where those who go to work will contribute so much. This is the third discussion. And I believe that we can reach agreement on all three points by defining what the state should do, seeing that it always works efficiently, and seeing that we really finance what we want to do together, and not as unfair as today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e13452	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Zakostelsky. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e13474	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Dear Seers and Seers! Allow me, at the beginning of our new President, Mrs Doris Bures, to congratulate her on her election. I am convinced that she will be the excellent work of Mrs Mag. Barbara Prammer is determined to continue in the sense of how Karlheinz Kopf addressed today in the early days. All right, Madam President! [[Congratulations on MEPs from ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian population expects the German government to work in the interest of our country. I think the population has a right to that too. Each of the two state-bearing parties has its principles and concepts for the design of the country. Together this will also succeed in the future, hopefully in a style of enhanced commonness. The Austrian People's Party, ladies and gentlemen, as a classic economic party with Christian-social roots, shows with Reinhold Mitterlehner as Vice Chancellor, Hans Jörg Schelling as Minister of Finance and Harald Mahrer as State Secretary their economic competence even more clearly. It is an eternally young wisdom that the ÖVP as an economic party wants to shape Austria as a healthy state, to shape future-oriented. [[Abg. Hagen: An old Mar!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] This means, on the one hand, a balanced budget – the Minister of Finance mentioned it earlier – to see also in connection with the EU tax pact, and on the other hand, a slim state. They know the eternally young principle of the ÖVP “More private, less state”, so – and this is very important for our citizens in particular – that it needs a slim state with less administrative burden. This also means quite clear reforms in our country. [[Abg. Pillow: forever young!]] [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: 27 years young! 27 years of government young!]] All of this, ladies and gentlemen, is the prerequisite for a genuine discharge of the citizens of our country, especially the service providers, the entrepreneurs and the families. The aim is to increase the amount of money available to people, so that entrepreneurs will have the opportunity to invest more and, of course, to create more jobs in this way. Overall, the mood in our country is becoming more optimistic and forward-looking. – These are clear objectives of a Christian-social economic party and are clearly the concern of the entire federal government. The People's Party – and you also know these eternally young facts – has many qualified personalities who are willing to take up the service of the State. [[Abg. Pillow: The Eternal Boys!]] With Reinhold Mitterlehner as Vice Chancellor and Minister of Science and Economics, a well-known expert in the Austrian economy takes on a lot of responsibility with all its competence, and with him his creative State Secretary Harald Mahrer. [[Abg. Pillow: Yes, he's always young!]] And finally, with Hans Jörg Schelling – I don't need to introduce him – the challenging place of the Minister of Finance is probably a man who is as well known for his competence as for his enforcement strength and also that he doesn't object to hot iron. [[Abg. Pillow: Because he's young!]] Ladies and gentlemen! As a legislative body, I believe that, in the sense of parliamentary control, we wish for constructive cooperation with the Federal Government, and in particular we wish the new members of the Federal Government everything, all good for their work. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e13595	Next item is the report by Mr Themessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e13618	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! With Kai Jan Krainerist it's always the same thing: He comes out and has been preaching only one subject for two years, and this is a new tax. Now I only know why the Social Democrats in Vorarlberg are leading a Dwarf election: Because it's just swearing what he gives of himself. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So just thinking about inventing new taxes doesn't help me. But to our new Minister of Finance: What I noticed very positively was that he immediately recognized... – Yes, thank God! [[Interference of Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner.]] He also knows that in Vorarlberg there is one and one, and not 1,9 and not 2,1; but one is clear: He has found that we have no revenue problem. – We have been telling you this for years: We have a problem with expenditure and not a problem with revenue. We have the highest tax revenue in the Second Republic, and we have the highest debt level – interestingly with the highest revenue. You have recognized this correctly, and as the only one of this government team, you have taken the word'reforms' into your mouth. This already sounds very positive – yes, with marks – and you have objected to it: [[Inter-remark of Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner]] You have said that you currently have absolutely zero margin in expenditure, and I do not give you the right, Minister of Finance. You know very well that there would be a lot to save in the expenditure area. I am right to say that the administrative reform will not lead to huge savings within the next few months, that this will take some time, only at some point in time you will have to start it. You know, for example, that savings potential in the funding sector would be immediately legible at billions, and I am already asking the Federal Government: Where is the much-known transparency database that we decided here years ago? Why does it still not exist and why does it not work? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We spend twice as much on funding as the average of EU countries, and we are unable to reduce it. And now let's look at the state of play: Where are we today, in these economically certainly not simple times? Mr Vice-Chancellor – I congratulate you on your new job – you said that we need to make clear what we stand for. But then we also need to know where we are at the moment – and we are currently not exactly in one, I say once, rusty situation. We have not only the highest debt and the highest tax rate, we also have constantly rising unemployment rates. There is no month without the first of the month being in the newspaper again, the number of unemployed has increased by more than 10 percent compared to the same month of the previous year. The Minister of Labour admits that this will continue until 2015 so that no change will occur before now. We have investments that are going back, that is, we have declining economic growth rates. The Austrian National Bank or its governor only revised the whole thing down a week ago, from originally 1.6 percent to now 0.9; in reality we are 0.6 percent. You know what that means, too. To the red half of the empire another wish: Would you please point out to your National Bank Governor Nowotny that the 2015 budget has already been decided? – No- In fact, wotny has announced in an issue that the 2015 budget will be extremely difficult for the new economic data now prevailing. We decided in May of this year – once again, perhaps listening – a double budget for 2014/2015 in this House. – So much for the attention of a red national bank governor when it comes to stimulating the Austrian economy. Now we are dealing with the following problem: The reforms you do not address are one; the second is that you do not give the company any planning certainty. This means that investment is falling enormously, not only because economic demand is stagnating, but also because planning security is lacking in that country. And now I am hearing again the parade example of this, which is the so-called non-smoker debate. A few years ago, we passed the smoking law here; after that, gastronomy has converted, huge sums have invested. And hardly was the law passed, the debate started: Next year, we will generally switch to non-smokers! – Yes, what do you believe? You, what a company is investing today if it does not know what this federal government is doing next year? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It doesn't last a year, it doesn't even pass a quarter without new requirements coming without further innovations coming! And if the Austrian Federal Government manages to slow down these regulations, it certainly does not manage the EU, and then something comes from there. Even so much on bureaucracy and the need for savings, on the reforms: They know that we spend 4.1% of the gross domestic product on the administrative sector. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] In Switzerland it is 1.6 percent, in Sweden 1.3 – and these are not worse managed than we are; no, on the contrary, better.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e13727	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e13749	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! If you say, Mr Finanzminister, that we do not have a revenue problem, but rather an expenditure problem, then you ignore that we have a problem on the revenue side, namely a revenue structure problem. We have a tax and tax system in Austria, where labour is taxed as high as in almost no other country in the OECD comparison. In return, however, assets are taxed as low as in almost no other OECD country. There's a mismatch! It will certainly be the case that the tax reform will certainly have to do some things in the coming years or the coming autumn. But this also applies to the environmental orientation of our tax system: Here, too, we have a need to catch up in the international comparison. If we have been discussing for months the question of a relief of the factor work, we must of course consider today how we will counter-finance it, because there is nothing to give in the budget. Here I am with you: There is no budgetary room. I am also with you when you say that it is a question of saving expenditure where efficiency increases are concerned, for example through administrative reforms, reductions in expenditure on grants. (ii) the reduction in environmental subsidies and the like. However, if we are discussing tax relief and if we are also discussing the issue of tax justice, we have to consider today how we want to put counter-funding on our feet, because in the short term this will not be done with an administrative reform. Therefore, it is also important to consider the revenue side, and there must be a debate on property-related taxes, I believe, at last in this country of ideology-free, subject-matter. This debate is missing, and we must hold this debate. I would like to thank you very much for the invitation to a conversation; I hope I can then tell you what it is about. It is not, as Mr Strolz has also mentioned, “Eat the Rich!”, nor is it about ‘Feed the Rich!’, it is simply about the rich, super-rich and billionaires in this country having to make a solidarity contribution to the reduction of low and medium incomes in the course of the next tax reform and tax relief. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] This is a fair tax system, and we need such a fair tax system, and we must work on it. If you have raised the issue of fiscal consolidation as one of the greatest challenges, then I can only share this view partially, in that, when fiscal consolidation can very easily go wrong at a time of weakening economic growth, it can fail because, in times of declining growth, consolidation can lead exactly to the opposite of what one intends to achieve, namely, rising deficits and rising public debt. Let's take a look over the borders of Austria! Not only in Austria, the economy is weakening, but also in other major countries of Europe: Italy is in a recession, most likely Germany, the largest economy, will enter a recession, and we do not need to talk about France at all. These are the three largest economies in the euro area, which account for about two thirds of GDP in the euro area, and if the economy in these countries goes down, this will not remain without impact on the Austrian situation. Many observers argue that this is related to the sanctions in the context of geopolitical measures. - No, I can't share that in this strict form. This may have an influence – which is, however, small because the export rate to Russia is very, very low – but which plays the crucial role and which will be the crucial task of you in the next few years, is to question this neoliberal policy, the overrun of austerity in the European states. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Because only then, when we have questioned this austerity will we be able to make a cost-effective budgetary policy, and only a cost-effective budgetary policy will result in some time in us losing deficits and debts again. One of your predecessors, Mr Mitterlehner, Mr Taus, said: [[Inter-remark of Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner]] Well, now, in times of weakening economics, we cannot reduce the debt, so to speak, we must do something for growth. This is why I urge you to make an economic policy in the sense of questioning the neoliberal spardogma, but also at the same time speedily a tax reduction to tackle tax relief, because this too can be an important one. contribute to the creation of growth and employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e13845	Next, Mr. Ing. Lugar in word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e13866	Mr President. High house! So I don't know how you are, but I've been very happy: I was very pleased when Mr Mitterlehner became a new ÖVP partyman. I was happy at the time when Mr Spindelegger was favoured by Mr Mitterlehner. [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: Really?]] You remember that Erwin Pröll got through Mr. Spindelegger at the time. At that time I was happy as an opposition politician, today I am looking forward to being a citizen. I am therefore pleased today as a citizen because I believe that it is simply necessary that finally the right people come where they should be. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] And I think it's the only and last chance for the ÖVP. I spoke to an ÖVP sympathizer today, and she told me that it is the last chance of the ÖVP to prove that she understands something about economy and that she can renovate this state. [[Abg. Wittmann: This is the wrong speech! That's it for...!]] That is why I am glad that Mr Mitterlehner has succeeded in asserting himself against Mr Pröll, and he is finally placing an appointed expert where we need him, namely in the Ministry of Finance. [[Inter-remark of Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner]] [[New interim remark by Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner.]] And it's not like Mrs. Mikl-Leiter claimed that he's not an expert. I believe that our new finance minister is an expert where we need it, because he has enforcement power over Erwin Pröll – he has proved that – he is someone who has enough money to be independent, and is not dependent on this party and therefore not corruptible. [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: With him!]] [[Abg. Wittmann: How are you with Stronach?]] That means, I'm saying, If someone is able to counter this and act against the desires of the SPÖ, then it is a Minister of Finance Schelling who knows that you have to make money before you can distribute it. [[Abg. Wittmann: And how are you with Stronach?]] [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Unfortunately, the SPÖ has already forgotten this, because with the SPÖ, all those who show more and more desires and want more and more of those who pay. This is the problem we have in this Republic. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] That is, those who want to become more and more, and those who pay remained vulnerable under the ÖVP as it was. And I hope that, under the new leadership, all those who actually receive our country, the service providers, all those who bring benefits and with their high tax performance also contribute to the protection of all those who have desires here. - That's the point. That is, I expect very, very much from this new EIA, and as a citizen I am very pleased, I am only unfortunately afraid, as a politician, that Mr Schelling is the right man, but unfortunately in the wrong government. Let's take a look at the government! There is the SPÖ, the so-called pre-disposition organization of the union, and there is the ÖVP-old, the pre-disposition organization of the Erwin Pröll. [[Ironic cheerfulness of Deputies Elisabeth Hakel and Hell]] And that's the question: Can you, Mr Mitterlehner – and I hope you can! – and you too, Mr Schelling, against the uncle Erwin from Lower Austria at last do what I expect from you as a citizen and many outside? – We expect nothing from SPÖ anyway, but we expect the ÖVP to finally bring home understanding to the government and not to systematically sell all those who ultimately pay the bills at the end of the day. These are the economic operators, these are all those who earn well in this country and are unlikely to pay a lot of taxes. We must not frighten them all! In reality, we must be grateful to them that we can still pay for all the blessings that the socialists have had in mind over the years and decades. But don't be fooled! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Elisabeth crochet.]] If we keep going, they're all gone. It's already a resolution process in progress! I am also deeply anchored in the economy, and there are many in my environment who ask themselves: Why am I doing this in this country at all? Why am I so strict when, in the end, nothing remains under the rule anyway? 60 percent – you have to imagine that once! – 60 percent of the self-employed entrepreneurs in this country earn less than their best employees. Can you imagine that? – 60 percent! We've come that far! This means that there must be a rethinking here, here at last there must be economic thinking, and I trust the new Minister of Finance – because he knows what he is doing, and especially because he has seen it from the other side – that he can move a lot there. The question will remain: Can he get through? Can he prevail against the uncle Erwin, to whom only the Lower Austrian interests are important and to which the League is in no way important in any form? This is the problem in the ÖVP. I see a first step here because I know how difficult it was to impose the new Minister for Finance at Erwin Pröll. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] I see here in the morning that the ÖVP can finally free itself from this terrible embrace and finally do what I wish as a citizen and what Austria as a whole wishes to bring economic thinking to this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e14017	The next item is the report by Mr Hable. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e14038	Mr President. High house! Estimated members of the Federal Government! Citizens in the gallery and in front of the screens! Mr Finanzminister, I would like you, as the new finance minister of this country, to lightly break free on the way to new reforms. That's going to be However, you find it difficult – but not because of lack of condition, but because of the backpack you got right away with this office. We have a government debt ratio, which has risen from 18 percent in 1970 to now over 80 percent, we have a tax ratio that rose from 1970, since it was 35 percent, to now over 45 percent, and yet we do not have a balanced budget. We are also on the subject of justice. – Mr Cap, you have often raised the issue of justice. But, of course, you have – I appreciate your humor, I don't hide it, that's okay – also revealed yourself, because behind this humour, I have to say that quite openly, only personal attacks. You have only hidden personal attacks behind your humour, but at the same time you have also done the revelation that you do not seem to have any scientific solutions to offer. [[Abg. Wittmann:... is now funny?]] So if really 90 percent of the speech is to deliver personal attacks, but not to offer scientific solutions, then it is also a revelation: a revelation of failure and also of no more will. I ask you, Mr Cap, but also the other colleagues from the SPÖ: What is fair – because you so often call the word “justice” into your mouth – what is fair to a tax rate of over 45 percent? – With its campaign “Punishment tax down!” on this topic, the trade union has become “skinned” This is just a little a matter of failure, because what really burdens work, what really burdens the general population, are not just turnover and income tax, it is above all social security contributions. Social security contributions in this country are now as high as income tax and turnover tax. I wonder where the campaign of the trade union, where the SPÖ campaign remains “run with the social security contributions!” because with these you naturally meet the low earners, there is this flat tax that you so vehemently reject, there is in reality immediately taxed away from zero euro without free borders. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrary]] A few days ago, I received an e-mail from a worker who asked me – that's the client you used to choose – why it is: [[towards SPÖ]] He would like to work more, but in view of the taxes he has to pay and, above all, to pay back, this does not pay for him at all, and he asks me: How could that be? How is that possible? – I would like to forward this question to you, valued representatives of the SPÖ: After almost continuous chancellorship since 1970, how is it possible that performance in this country is no longer worth it? We NEOS expect us from new tax policy and therefore also from you, Mr Fizwollen, less taxes. We want a simpler tax system that people in this country understand. And we want a fairer tax system. The reduction in the tax rate is of course a big step, from 45 percent we want to get down to 40 percent in a first step, which is the level of Germany, which is feasible. [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: These are how many billions?]] Mr. Vice-Kanzler Mitterlehner, if you have already brought the word “counter financing” into your mouth – you have been in the direction of SPÖ – I hope that you do not mean that further tax increases are in the house, so to speak. I mean, at least it would be honest, because one thing was clear: The ÖVP – and in this case I address this page – has said before every choice: [[towards ÖVP]] With us no new taxes! and after the election everything was always different. After the election, there was certainly the next tax increase. [[Call at the ÖVP:no absolute had!]] In this sense, if you mean tax increase with counter-financing, at least honestly, but we reject that vehement! We want a reduction in the tax rate from 45 to 40 percent, which is €15 billion less, and that is about €4,000 per household. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: How do you want to save them, 15 billion?]] That would be the level of Germany. As you ask for savings: Half of you would get through a pension reform. [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: By what?]] [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: This is not the case with the promotion of the party!]] If the people in this country were to retire like the Swiss and also people in other countries, that is, five years later, then you would have half the rent on your own. That's all possible if you just want to. [[Abg. Wittmann: A milkmaid bill!]] Mr Finanzminister, one last thing I would like to say to you: You got a certain advance of confidence from us, and of course we hope you deserve it too. Of course, you can often talk to the coalition partner that something is not going on, that something is not feasible, but you already have a possibility that we have often requested in this House: [[President Head gives the bell sign]] § 16 Financial Constitutional Act, namely by regulation to require a common budgetary law to countries and communities. This should have been done long ago, but has been prevented by the Holy Blood Agreement. She is the Minister for Finance
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e14164	Mr President, your speaking time has expired.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e14179	Yes, I'm sorry. Mr. Finanzminister, you have the power to do this. If you do, if you do, you deserve our confidence advance, and we hope so. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e14209	Mr Stöger, Federal Minister, spoke next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e14231	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to thank all those who have worked well with me in the health committee, in the animal welfare sector. It is my concern to thank you very much. I took over a new task, namely in the Federal Ministry of Transport, Innovation and Technology, and I take over an excellent house. In this excellent house one can see what it means for a state to have infrastructure. Here you can see what benefits a state offers in good quality, and you can also see how it works when it comes to people. We can talk about the ÖBB for a long time, but go to the station in Linz or in Vienna and ask the people who are commuting to bring in their economic power. If the train runs from Linz to Vienna only more than 1 hour 15 minutes, then many people have won very, very much. [[Abg. Hagen: From Vienna to Vorarlberg seven to eight hours!]] And that strengthens economic strength in our country. The ÖBB are faster, more comfortable and what we are all pleased with has also become economic. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing how we can benefit from our economic strength, how we can strengthen our position. This cannot happen if we do not have the modern services, for example the Internet, the fixed network, the broadband network. A company in the region – I say quite consciously, because 66 percent of the Austrian population do not live in urban areas – needs people to develop their economic strength, access to modern networks, such as broadband development. This is an important thing that we now want to and must implement together. We implemented construction projects in Austria – I thank my predecessor, President Bures, for having implemented this in peace and with consequence – and for creating new technologies, and we have expanded the streets. Finally, this strengthens the economy, gives people the opportunity to have work, and increases prosperity in our society. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I understand the Federal Ministry of Transport, Innovation and Technology as one that addresses people and their economic strength. We will also strengthen economic and social responsibility here. Mobility is a prerequisite. On freight transport, I would like to say that we are going to the centre of Europe, if we do not only have great services and networks in Austria, but even expand them even further in order to strengthen our economic power as a whole. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser]] It is about the future – the BMVIT has been founded as a ministry for the future. We want to achieve environmental objectives. We want to take part in climate protection. We stand in global competition and have to stand there, so we need a strong infrastructure. If we do, then this is the best way to the economic, human, but also to social health care. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you, the course has been well set, some trains are really purchased – we get new, I have heard already – but you have to drive. [[Abg. Moser: Rise once!]] We need to drive along to become an innovation country, to strengthen it. We will also make great efforts in the field of research. We will support this, I will support it, and I am glad to be working together here. I have announced that in the next few days we are looking at something else with the Technology Committee. It is about opening up to us, seeing Europe and securing the way of Austria into the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e14292	The next item is the speech by Mr Heinzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e14314	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! As of 2006, Austria in the field of transport and infrastructure, Federal Minister Stöger has already mentioned one, as I did my, huge step forward. In the field of public transport in particular, there has been a great deal of progress, which can be seen only in the development of the environmentally friendly rail, which has been successfully driven forward over the past few years and will continue with vehemence in the coming years. Ladies and gentlemen! 80 percent of the Austrian rail network is still from the period of the monarchy, and this, although we know that a high-performance modern rail is the backbone for a well-functioning infrastructure and also ensures hundreds of thousands of jobs. That is why the further roadmap for the next years is clear, quite clear: By 2019, a total of € 13.2 billion will be invested in further expansion of the railway. To date, however, investment has not only been made in major axles, international routes, in large projects such as South Railway, Westbahn, which have also been invested in numerous smaller projects in recent years, they have been started or will soon begin. Over 100 railway stations throughout Austria are renovated, revitalized, modernized and especially designed for disabled people. Ladies and gentlemen! All these measures ensure growth and employment. The expansion of rail alone will create around 30 000 jobs. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, the aspect of environmental protection also plays a very important role. In the previous year alone, the Rail Cargo reached over 25 billion tons. If we had to transport this amount of goods with trucks, the CO2 balance of Austria would be far worse and look. But also in the field of passenger transport, ladies and gentlemen, the ÖBB help to save CO2. In the previous year alone, the ÖBB transported 469 million passengers, rising in trend, which we are pleased with. This is also reflected in the Group result. The ÖBB achieved a profit of €102.5 million in the previous year and thus by 38 percent more than 2012. This positive trend must continue over the next few years. High house! The second major modernisation shift in the area of infrastructure – which has already been mentioned a few times today, and I am pleased to hear from Mr Finanzminister – is broadband development. Broadband development is an hour's commandment from an economic point of view, as well as from the point of view of location policy, but also from the social point of view. Federal Minister Bures presented the broadband strategy 2020 two years ago, with the ambitious goal of making ultra-fast Internet available throughout Austria by 2020. It is important to implement and coordinate the master plan for broadband development presented this year, so that the possibility of modern communication technologies, Teleworking, can at last be used by all across Austria. High house! I would particularly like to highlight the advanced investments in flood protection along the Danube. Ten flood protection projects along the Danube will be preferred for up to four years, i.e. by 2019 at the latest, all will be completed. For the major project Eferdinger Becken in Upper Austria has already started planning. A total of € 560 million will be invested by the Federal Government, the Länder and the municipalities until 2019. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the subject of road must not be left out either. In the field of transport safety, major steps have been taken in recent years. There has been a significant decrease in the number of accidents, in the number of fatalities, especially in the number of accidents, in the number of accidents caused by alcohol. 455 road fatalities in 2013 are far too much, but the lowest level since the beginning of official accident statistics in 1961. For comparison: At the turn of the millennium, twice as many people died on our streets as in 2013. The most important measures were the reform of motorcycle training, the bike helmet requirement for children up to 12 years, stricter penalties for lawns and alcohol at the tax – coupled with awareness-raising measures. Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, my speaking time has already been exhausted, there has been much to be reported on the area of infrastructure. It is still a lot to do in the future. The Transport and Infrastructure Division is a large and, as I mean, particularly exciting and diverse subject area. Mr Stöger, President of the Parliamentary Transport Committee, I am now looking forward to a partnership at an eye to the benefit of our beautiful Republic of Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e14383	Mr Ottenschlager is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e14404	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government, especially Mr Verkehrsminister! As a Vienna MP and as a Josefstadter, I can also very warmly welcome the new State Secretary Harald Mahrer and congratulate him very warmly on his new role on behalf of the Josefstadters – in order to bring a little local color to Parliament. Federal Minister! They have taken over a very challenging and very exciting ministry. What are the main challenges in my view? – Modern mobility and infrastructure are the driving force behind the economy and society, for example the further development of the federal railways, which I believe we should jointly develop into a competitive mobility provider in order to remain competitive in the ever-increasing European competition. This is one of the main challenges. However, we also need to consider how we can vote on infrastructure projects in the railway sector in the future, because we do not want to postpone all of this financially to future generations. There, I think, is a lot of creativity and thought, and we are happy to be ready for that. Mr Minister, on this point too, I would like to ask you: Not all that an ÖVP mandatar or a official, a member of the government of the ÖVP, says on the subject of ÖBB, is to be equated with ÖBB-Bashing, but we want to continue working on the future of the state railway here in fact and together. Further points: the implementation of the Danube Region Strategy – I think this is a very important topic that we should all discuss with each other and even more often, the Danube as an important transport route, as a sustainable possibility of transporting from the Bavarian region to the Black Sea; also an opportunity for the economic location Austria. At the same time, however, we also need to think about the future of Austrian aviation; there are also some points. This is important for the location, for competitiveness in Austria. We also want to develop environmental solutions, but we should pay attention to the interests of all the participants in the airspace. It is currently the reorganisation of the Austrian airspace in discussion. There is a regulation from your predecessor, in which I would like to thank you very much for her work at this point, and this proposed regulation, as she says, would lead to an injustice, that is to say, to air sports, because it would mean a restriction on this one. We should go back to the start and try to find a common solution within the meaning of all those involved, as aviation also represents an important location advantage for the tourism industry in Austria. Furthermore, important, actually planned road construction projects are ahead of you. We should also pay more attention to the fact that we can make a balanced offer, including for rural areas. And the development of intelligent transport and information technologies must continue to drive in order to increase safety and energy efficiency. Mr Federal Minister, I believe that we should also take a different path as far as the transport industry is concerned. The transport industry is not to be deflated, but it is an essential partner of the economy as a whole, and at the end of the day it is also important for consumers. Last point: As a central country in Europe, Austria has the opportunity to develop into an interesting logistics location. Here too, there are some proposals that we would like to further develop with you. In this sense, Mr Federal Minister, I am looking forward to a good cooperation with you. I'm optimistic and I think we're going to make a lot of progress together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e14460	Next speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e14481	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Stöger, I do not want to congratulate you on the new office. At the same time, however, I expect you to have more flexibility and more, you can say calmly, weather strength than all your predecessors had in recent years. You mentioned that you liked the stations. Minister, there are many large construction sites in between the stations! This is not about managing the status quo, but about really bringing something forward. Let's start with road traffic. The ASFINAG regularly increases the tolls. It's just that she can't hide the winning any more than she wants. There are then always small unkinds, for example, that national leaders are working for a political job placement. There will be Tischler's head office for certain areas – carpenters, not somehow a building or civil engineering specialist or something else. But Mr. Landeshupt has accommodated his fellow. You have to take care of this, because the toll payers will not understand it, no matter if the head of state, as now in particular case, is a black man from Upper Austria or a foreigner from another federal state. The toll payers won't understand. At the same time, they do not understand all the time why in Austria, like in Italy, it is not possible to effectively catch up and effectively pursue Raser, who takes up the road traffic regulations a little uninvited. Let's come to the fly, to the Austro Control; some of the pilots like to say: Out of Control. Minister Stöger, the roadmap aeronautics is a pious paper that modifies ahead of itself. It happens too little, yes, it does not happen at all. And because we're already there: The passenger tax – this is not Your topic, but it is actually a topic of the Minister of Finance, but this one will certainly support you, since he is not a knowledge-based oli-de-de-de-co-de-de-coy – this passenger has to be gone! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Another request from us – Mr Ottenschlager has already mentioned it –: The innovation for the restructuring of the airspace belongs strongly revised! That's the pious version of it. Mr Minister, we, Mr Hafenecker, who is a pilot himself, and I, have sent you a letter summarizing about what are the most important points that should be changed. [[The speaker presented a document to Federal Minister Stöger.]] Let's go to inland navigation. This is not a big topic for itself in Austria, only: The National Action Plan on Danube Shipping is still not implemented in key sectors – also a field of activity! Now we come to my hobby area, the rail transport. Mr. Federal Minister, you may find it difficult, but: The ÖBB belong from the shackles of the party, freed from social democracy! It's about having professional power, not a party book. That is not to say, in the reverse, that a red man can't get anything there. Just, it's about: Why is a person who has the red party book, but otherwise only in real estate or in the sale of electricity or elsewhere, why does he become something at the ÖBB and not a standing railer who may also be red? – That's why: It is about professional competence, and it is about infrastructure policy, but not about image cures of state chiefs. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] – I will explain it to you if you wish, Mrs. Colleague. It is about a lot of big things for the ÖBB, and we start with safety. It's about the safety of employees, and it's about the security of customers. Therefore, our core requirement is an immediate stop of zero-to-zero operation! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It cannot be assumed that trains with 300 people and more are run by a single driver, and otherwise there is no employee. If anything happens – this is unbearable! Mr Minister, if in the voestalpine you know had worked the same management as with the ÖBB, which operates pure cost cutting, then today this company would sell a few hundred tons of sheet metal and not produce several million tonnes of successful. You see, it's not about party politics, it's about what you're doing. You and the Supervisory Boards you are responsible for. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Finally, Mr Minister, I do not wish to say that I or my colleagues trust this new government a lot. Human resources will not be enough. The idea – and this has so formulated the “NZZ” – to make top representatives of the chamber state a hopeful source of reforms is perhaps courageous. Whether it's targeting, we'll see. I expect you, Mr Minister, not great press conferences, not great shows, but work in progress. That's what we'll measure you by. The people will measure you by this too. The people expect physical work, but not from this government anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e14584	Next speaker: Mr Willi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e14606	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen at the ministerial level and here in plenary! I would like to begin by welcoming the new ministers. I am particularly pleased with the new Minister for Health, which I have always experienced as a speaker in plenary as a very resolute, determined and guided by clear objectives. I am looking forward to the new Minister of Finance, whom I have already listened to for a few evenings as a speaker, and I am excited about what this will do with the slim state. I'm a little skeptical about the slim state. I would also like to see a state that is providing the services that citizens can rightly expect. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] So, but now to you, Mr. New Mobility Minister. Your first statement was a little too little for me. You just said the infrastructure ministry is great, great people, and in the core you said: I'll continue as before. – But that can't be the way it is. I have consensus with you in praise of the Minister for Transport, current President Bures, in her fight she has won for the broadband billion. I think that's very important. Rural areas in Austria need a good broadband supply. It wasn't a simple fight, but she won it, and we're all happy about it. But you said how great this is when you drive from Linz to Vienna: One hour fifteen is great. – I myself am a benefit of this fast West Railway, I use it every week. Just, what about the people between Linz and Vienna? There are still those in St. Pölten who can get in, but otherwise? What about the many who live in rural areas? [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] They're gonna break these fast trains. What do these fast trains, which are supertolls, do not question; the colleague, daughter, knows them too. They strengthen the agglomerations, and they weaken rural areas. The art of you must be, Minister, that you become a mobility minister for all Austrians, including those in rural areas. That's the exciting task. I can assure you: I have experienced how the mobile phone was introduced and what has been doing over the past 25 years. And in mobility we will experience a similar rapid development. The importance of the car is getting weaker, even the car builders admit it. But the demands for mobility are increasing, and it is your job to ensure mobility and increasing demands on mobility. This is only through the expansion of environmentally friendly transport! That means: Strengthen rail and bus systems, strengthen cycling. As a health minister, they were always a great advocate that we ride a lot with the bike, and the to-foot walk. Their art will be to create a network between these parts. There is too little to put only on the fast track and on the three large tunnels. This costs a lot of money – that will still be felt by the Minister of Finance – but they total less than if you use this much more money in the area. We will certainly still have a lot of exciting discussions. I would like to give an example of how well-developed public transport is adopted. In the city of Vienna there is a 365-€ annual ticket thanks to Rot-Grün, which now has 433,000 Vienneses. In addition, 146 000 who have the senior ticket, 85 000 students with the student ticket and then the young people with the top youth ticket. There you can see: If you make a great offer, it will be accepted! Minister! So that you – that is why I brought this thing with you – remember every day that you need to expand local and regional transport, I brought you our parade train model in this respect, the “talent”. [[The speaker opens a model railway package.]] I wish you a lot of talent in rebuilding the mobility system. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] The fast train alone is not; even not the motorway, which has little future because the car has little future. I would be glad if you put this train set on your desk, to the Mrs. Minister’s “Taurus” locomotive, and remember it every day: Here lies your future, that's your future! I am looking forward to good cooperation, Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e14688	Next item is the report by Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e14710	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Mr Stöger, Minister of State! I can't say now that I was thrilled when I heard about your appointment as Minister of Transport. Nothing against you personally, I personally don't know you so much, but I know your behaviour in the previous government team as a health minister, and there has been a lot of upsetting on me. When I think of you as a union officer now as the ÖBB, which is known – that is no secret – a red forge, that is, one has made the Bock a gardener at the ÖBB. I am already concerned that you do not want or can not get under control of the problem we have with the ÖBB, namely that the state of Austria has to pay €2 billion each year on taxpayers' money. That's what I'm worried about. If I see that as a health minister you have not managed to make these 22 social security institutions more cost-effective with a kind of administrative reform, then I believe that you will not create this problem either – that is why I am concerned. Nevertheless, Mr Minister, I also want to give you a chance. You can drag me to your side by really convincing me that you have the department under control that you are putting on these weaknesses and bringing improvements there, bringing clear improvements. Then you will have me in the boat, then you will have You support me as a supporter and the entire Stronach team, which thinks very economically, as a supporter. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Minister has referred to freight transport on the rails. They know – as spokesperson of the Stronach team, I have been on this issue for a long time – that we need to become more competitive in this area. It always hurts me when I'm over in Switzerland – Switzerland is known as a track-occupied country – and the politicians there tell me: Please tell your colleague in Vienna that they are adapting and expanding the freight network accordingly so that freight transport on the rails does not have to be carried around Austria, but also Austria can participate in this market! The problem is: It does nothing if expensive tunnels are built in Switzerland, if great high-speed routes are built there or in other European surroundings of Austria, and in Austria we sleep the whole thing. There is a lot of work to be done, Mr Minister. I can only recommend: Cremble Once on the sleeves and pack on this theme! The freight rail is an important issue. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Other topic: Truck. The truck transports at night I find much more reasonable because if we increase the speed from 60 to 80 kilometres, the goods can be transported faster. You live in Upper Austria, Minister, I live in Vorarlberg. I go by car from time to time because it's faster than by train from Vorarlberg to Vienna; I need less and a half hours in the worst case, at best I'm even faster. And I keep the speed; I'm a police officer, I'm keeping up with the speed, ladies and gentlemen! [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] There is also something wrong with passenger transport, if the rail is too slow for passenger transport. It's nice when it goes to Linz, where you come from, very fast. But Vorarlberg has been forgotten again! That's where we should sit. That is why it is important to me that we move freight traffic on the road, if it cannot be transported on the rail, into the night hours, because of course it is the problem that is very strong on the day of passenger transport. There are very dangerous situations when too many trucks are on their way. That's why there's also the truck bans. I also have a request in committee, and we will also discuss it. On two tracks this is a very massive source of danger, even there we should start. Your predecessor has already recorded this, so we will negotiate it. You see, in me you have a good employee. If you want, come to me, I'll help you. Also a big topic for me – I am an enthusiastic motorcycle driver – is the release of the bus track for the motorcyclists. Mr. Federal Minister, you just have to take care of this over regionally! For in one country it is true, in the other it does not apply, how should a trafficr, especially from abroad, recognize himself? – Here we could prevent a lot of congestion by also releasing the bus track for the motorcycles and thus speeding up the whole thing. Let me now speak briefly to the Minister for Finance as a Vorarlberger, and I will stop immediately. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] Mr. Finanzminister, you are a hopemaker for me. As Vorarlberger we know the saying: “Schaffa, schaffa, Hüsle baua, Katz verkofa, selbr musa!” That means we can handle money, we've learned to save, we've learned to manage, and I trust you. They are predestined as a service provider, as you have seen it. I will make a request later, which will help you to implement these measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e14792	I can also translate what the honourable Member said earlier: “Work, work, build house, sell cat, catch mice!” [[Federal Minister Schelling: Thank you for the translation, Mr President!]] The next item is the speech by Mr Pock. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e14824	Mr President, thank you very much for the translation. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors here in the plenary room and in front of the televisions! Dear Minister Stöger, you have received a comprehensive place with the Angelobung as the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology – in advance my warm congratulations on this new challenge! It's going to be a challenge. The resort offers you the opportunity to make decisive choices in order to make Austria grand-fit and to show solidarity with the next generations here as a Social Democratic. It is now up to you, in addition to the Minister of Finance and the Social Affairs, to ensure that the debt mountain we have accumulated so far is not further growing and possibly even reversed. Since we are well-known for our constructive policy, I would also like to share with you some essential issues that are very important to us. The broadband development has already been addressed by my previous speakers. Here we see a broad consensus in the National Council on all six political groups. What is particularly important to NEOS is that we shape the calls for tenders in such a way that the medium-sized person actually benefits from building not only earth-bound infrastructure but also from putting it on the mobile broadband, and that we also create a wide range of products here from competition. An essential point in mobility – even here I could be friends with a Ministry of Mobility and Infrastructure – is a regional transport issue which the colleague of the Greens has already addressed and which is certainly also known to you as the Upper Austrian, namely the commuting problem between the Mühlviertel and the Greater Linz region. I am aware that certain topics do not directly fall into your competence. But as a new minister in the Ministry of Infrastructure, it will certainly be a challenging task to reorganise the competences, as commuting not only within a political district or within a federal state. As a minister, you also have to look over the edge of the plate. Another point that will be very exciting from our point of view is the announced study on pension and structural reform at the ÖBB, and allow me to comment that if NEOS delegates say something to the ÖBB, this should not automatically be an OBB-bashing. This is where the Republic of Austria has a great responsibility as a property representative, and I hope here for a detailed discussion both in the Committee and afterwards in plenary. From our point of view, there is a lot to do here. I would also like to draw an example of the infrastructure projects relating to the Brenner base tunnel, which has often been discussed. Yesterday, there were again reports in the media that the financing of Italy is not secured. There is the statement that although it will only start to build later in Germany, one will be ready in time, and now this is not secured on the Italian side again. I am asking for this, and there has already been a request from me in the Transport Committee, that we regularly evaluate these projects and that, above all, we do not place the priority so much on long-distance transport and international transport axes, but rather strengthen regional transport. There are a large number of people here who need to be transported and are actually ready to change. This is our current weakness in transport policy. From our point of view – and this is the central requirement that we do not want to discuss only once – that policy should be taken out of the companies, out of the state-in-state establishments, that there should be transparent post positions with qualified candidates, regardless of political membership, that there should also be realistic cost planning and that there should be no projects at the request of national leaders for better profile in country election campaigns. I would say about this demand the railways drive, and I wish you a nice day.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e14877	Now Mrs. State Secretary Mag. President. — I call the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e14898	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, here in the House! Dear Seers! I would like to congratulate our new National Council President Doris Buresherzlich on her election. I believe that this is a very, very good decision, and it will also complete its office with all respect and humility. I am pleased that, as a former Member here in the House, I am allowed to explain to you the transfer of the State Secretariat from the Ministry of Finance to the Federal Chancellor's Office by the Social Democracy. On the other hand, of course I would also like to bring you closer to my new, my new additional task. Until yesterday, I was State Secretary at the Federal Ministry of Finance and, in addition to the other tasks with which I was entrusted to the Ministry, was also entrusted with the political reflection function, i.e. with the political negotiations with the Minister of Finance. I would like to point out here that this political reflection function is still part of my task. Yesterday I was admitted by the President of the Federal Republic of Germany to the Federal Chancellor as Secretary of State, and I would also like to thank the Federal Chancellor for my confidence. I can assure everyone that I will also meet my new task with the same optimism, the same elan, but above all with great respect and humility. In the Federal Chancellery I will be very busy as a State Secretary for Administration and Public Service, which are very, very big challenges. On the other hand, I will of course also be concerned with the coordination of tax reform and other budgetary policy issues. Structural measures already mentioned in the previous debate are also an essential part of my coordination work. I should also like to take advantage of the opportunity to wish everything good to the new members of the government on the government bank, and of course I also wish for good cooperation. What are the agendas that I will look after in the Federal Chancellery? – These are on the one hand administrative management and e-government, which, especially in times like these, are challenging areas, where we are talking about close to citizens and, of course, need to find new ways to manage them at the same time. The area of public servants has already been addressed, but I am also entrusted with the issues of structural and regional policy. Regional policy is an essential cornerstone of the Federal Chancellor's Office, as well as funding that connects regional policy with the European Union, such as ERDF funding. I am also concerned about the matters of law enforcement in matters of equal treatment. I am aware, ladies and gentlemen, that the public service sector in particular is a particular challenge. We in Austria employ almost 130 000 people in the Federal Service, throughout the public service or better in the public sector. That means, including the countries, the municipalities, the distributed companies and institutions, it is around 450 000 people, i.e. more than 10 percent of all employees. These persons public services have been faced with the savings measures taken for years, so that there is a shortage of resources on one issue or another, as well as constantly new requirements and challenges, and they do an excellent job in spite of all these difficult conditions. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I was able, in particular, to conduct personal discussions with my colleagues in each of the financial offices, but also with customs offices, with the challenges they face me, for example, in the fight against fraud, where they have described to me the challenges they face in the customs offices, and how much these tasks are especially for officials in the public service today. That is why I can now take the opportunity to thank all my colleagues in the Federal Ministry of Finance again expressly and cordially. [[In the case of the SPÖ and the ÖVP representatives, and in the case of Bravoruf des Abg. Pendl.]] Administrative reforms, administrative and structural measures are always part of our debate here in the House. I have been working in the High House for more than four years, or in federal politics, and the key word “administrative reform” is one of which many can imagine something. On the one hand, it is worth saving billions, but if you look more closely into the administration, you will find that, of course, we also have efficiency potentials. On the other hand, of course, we also need to ensure that the state is managed optimally. One of our reform projects is the Federal Government's office. We have just started the initial work, the proposals will be drawn up and, of course, discussed politically before the legislative implementation takes place. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] I believe that the office of the Federal Government is also one of the leading projects of this federal government, in addition to the tax reform, in addition to the reorganisation of the federal government/states/communities and in addition to the budget strategy set by the Austrian Federal Government itself. I therefore wish, as before, a good cooperation with the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e14978	The next item is the speech by Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e14999	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and in front of the screens! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me begin by making a statement that is very important to me personally: I think we could have gotten some kind of comment when we started the sitting. I think we have and have elected an excellent President. And anyone who thinks there is someone coming from the government into Parliament, I refuse to let him see how long he has been a Member and how long our President has been. So let's leave the church in the village! We have a profound, excellent, long-standing President from this House. I congratulate you once again, Madam President. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Tamandl.]] There is often a picture here, where I wonder which country some Members are talking about. Let us look at some European countries! I don't even look overseas. If in other European countries someone withdraws from the government, no matter what reason, then there are months of discussions. So there is hardly any more competence and leadership than in this federal government. Federal Chancellor, respect and recognition: It can't go faster. I believe that the Federal Government has clearly established where the necessary points are where it wants to start. We are all invited to make a contribution. However, I would like to join Mrs Steßl's Secretary of State because I have been standing for this public service for my entire life. I can extend my thanks to all public servants because they provide a first-class service for the Austrians. I should like to thank and thank all my colleagues in the public service personally and on behalf of my group. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Tamandl.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It always swings with it, and some publish this opinion, but it is not the right opinion. Mrs Colleague, during the last legislative period under this Federal Government, under this Chancellor, we have put in place the largest administrative reformatory measures of the century. Obviously, this has happened to some! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Reciprocating.]] We've been negotiating for months. [[Abg. Don't be so good.]] – Let’s leave the church in the village, colleague Lausch! I am just saying that this administrative reform, whether it is the national jurisdiction or the administrative jurisdiction, whether it was the police reform, whether it was the measure for the new foreign and asylum law, has all said at the beginning of the negotiations that it is impossible for us to agree. And I can say, look back: It was interesting negotiations, it was good negotiations, but today still to do as if nothing went on administratively, is simply and decisively wrong and unfair. I'm sorry, but the I would also like to say this because the discussion on the number of posts is coming over and over again: We have in the administration – Mrs Nachbaur, you can look at the establishment plan, it is easy to read – we have saved every fifth planning point in the administration area since the start of these measures. I'm sorry, but the [[Abg. Rebaur: Ask an entrepreneur!]] – Mrs Colleague, look! Look, easy to read! This federal government sets the priorities exactly where the shoe is pressing and where it is important and necessary for the population – whether it is with the police or with justice, where we need people. And the government has already said the last time a thousand additional posts. It's always going down. Now we've negotiated this again. I would also like to thank the Federal Government and the Federal Chancellor for the fact that this really means security for the Austrians. So we don't pretend that this wouldn't happen, otherwise you have to have the impression that you're not talking about our wonderful homeland of Austria, but you're talking about any other country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] I am curious about someone who has been conducting these discussions for many years. There are always some here and say: 37 Service rights in Austria are too many. – I knew that already 25 and 30 years ago, but in every special debate you all make your own rules and demand for your own areas that are at your heart. [[Abg. Lausch: I think the speech is 25 years old!]] That's not how we're going to get on with it! I believe that we are here together calling for new service regulations to be negotiated according to today's time – that goes to the military, because I see you just now, dear friend and colleague. But to make ourselves here and to say that there are too many rights of service, and in the special debate in the field of specialization, we know that, I believe, for many years, and we can give it to ourselves. I believe that one of the most important milestones we have made in the Government Convention, at least for the security sector, is the following: We want us to look at the overall situation of the executives and introduce a new regulation here in order to take account of today's specific requirements. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] I'd like to say: Congratulations again to me, our President, congratulations to the Federal Government, congratulations, Mr Bundeskanzler! Let us try to solve the essential questions for the Austrians together!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e15097	Next speaker: Mrs Tamandl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e15119	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start by thanking our excretive Minister of Finance Dr. Michael Spindelegger. He has always fought against wind in recent months because he has simply tried to advance the budget path and budget consolidation. And he has always told the people that we cannot afford a tax reform until we have created room for it. I believe that today, ladies and gentlemen, you have also seen that with his successor Hans Jörg Schelling is again a Minister of Finance, who believes that the money of taxpayers must be handled very, very carefully. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Exactly! With schilling to schilling!]] I also believe that we must continue to pursue this, namely that we keep our spending path, that we comply with the budgetary discipline, and - a concept is being drawn up - that we have no question at all - that we are going to have a tax reform that will relieve workers, the families, but also the businesses in that country. It will certainly be a hard way, but I know you, Minister of Finance, as a hard negotiator. You have already negotiated some reform very well and intensively with the countries. This is excellent because you will certainly have very, very tough negotiations with countries over the next few years, for example, structural reforms and distributions of competence, but also, of course, with regard to savings in support. I am very happy to support you in your efforts and look forward to the good cooperation with you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But I would also like to thank you very much for two reigns. One is Mr Danninger, the State Secretary, who has left the government, who has done an excellent job. He was a hardworking worker, he was always very well-integrated. I think all those who had to do with him in the Financial Committee, but also in the Budget Committee, have seen that he took the matter very seriously. [[President Bures takes over the presidency again.]] And the second one I would like to thank is Mrs Steßl's Secretary of State. She is now changing from the Ministry of Finance to the Federal Chancellery. I am convinced that she will do her job very well there. She's already proved this in the Ministry of Finance. I also wish you all the best and good luck for your new task. Mr Pendl said: There are great challenges waiting for you, not only to negotiate a modern and performance-oriented service right, not only to negotiate a slimmed and customer-friendly administration, but there will be a lot of other things that you, I am convinced, will do well to master. [[Complementary of the Abg. Gessl-Ranftl.]] But I would like you to have a very respectful relationship with the officials of the public service. We have heard today that they are doing great work on the citizens. For example, I can say this about the financial management: There is a strong idea of performance there, a strong concept of service on the part of officials. I mean, thank you for that. On behalf of my group, I should also like to thank the public servants very much for their services. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] On the whole, I believe that the Federal Government has shown today that it wants to go well into the future. We will all support them. But one thing is clear: It is already very disappointing, Mr Kickl, that before you hear what the Federal Government and the new members of the government are planning to do, you will make a request and distrust to the government. The Federal Government will show you that it is continuing its work very well, and our group will at least support this path with full commitment.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e15177	Next speaker: Mr Lausch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e15199	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! Yeah, where do you start? I will start with the competent State Secretary for Public Service. You now have the third responsibility in nine months. To this end, we can only congratulate this Federal Government. In the same way, the whole thing goes with the Minister of Finance, who says that it has been saved on the part of the expenditure side. They are the fourth finance minister in six years. Congratulations! This shows, of course, that this republic is on the move or perhaps does not know if you find the right people. The question then arises whether this federal government is at all the right government for this republic. What Mrs State Secretary has done in the Ministry of Finance so far is, I believe, something unclear. She was responsible for tax reforms. One does not know, one hears only relatively much that it has not been able to explain certain reform steps of this Federal Government in the Ministry of Finance. This does not make us particularly sure as a public servant. Why the Chancellor's Office has done this task is not known. But of course one can already find out: The Federal Chancellor – sitting behind me – is very well equipped in person. It must not be surprising that the Republic of Education, for science, no longer has any money, that one no longer has a minister of science, if everything is done in the Federal Chancellor's Office, so that the Federal Chancellor Faymann has the best representation or his best advisor. This republic doesn't have one yet, it's a vice chancellor's office. I don't think we have. But then stop at the ÖVP – who learn quite quickly – each one takes his faithful staff as the State Secretary. It can now be found that this Republic also has a Vice-Cancellor's Office in addition to the Federal Chancellor's Office. Because you always have one – dear Bernd, the louder you get, the more right you're here at the speaker's desk. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice to meet you.]] You're getting nervous all the time. You just need to look at it all the time. But, of course, that's clear. Mr. Finanzminister, before you leave us now, look into your ranks! You can save a lot on the expenditure side. Perhaps you can convince this government that you should not put everything together in the Vice-Cancellor Office or in the Federal Chancellor's Office, then you might have money in this Republic for more important things as well. That would be important. That would make sense. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That would then be your honor in the polls of the citizens in the elections. Then you wouldn't lie down like you really are. That's what you have to say. You also don't need to be so nervous if we keep the mirror here, namely that the ÖVP obviously can't handle money. You can say that. Look at Lower Austria! Look You can reach out to the municipal banks in Lower Austria! Then you know: ÖVP-hand does not necessarily require the reaction to say: That's good for the country. In addition, you have managed to appoint the fourth Minister of Finance in six years. Probably nobody wants it with you, or no one can, apparently. Now, 2014 at least, we have the fourth. [[Abg. Schönegger: Carinthia!]] – Yes, Carinthia has ruled red. That's very, very good. I think there are also problems there – perhaps more. But you shouldn't always be oriented to the coalition partner. You might want to think a little more and take this a little more seriously. In this sense, I can only say: I give my permission to Mr Pendl, who said that the public officials are doing excellent work in this Republic. But I have to tell him again, and I can say that to him at every speech: Despite this federal government! It's clear: If within nine months you receive the third manager or the third manager, this does not prove that you take this job or this job seriously or the public servants. You can then make yourself here and thank you again and again, what – I have to tell you – the public officials can't hear in part. They know they're working well. But you have to say: Not because of this federal government, but despite this federal government! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e15247	Mrs Moser. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e15269	Madam President, for the first time in this office! Congratulations! Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at home or – less now – at the gallery! I have, honestly, already asked myself a lot when I heard that there is now a Chancellor's State Secretary. [[Abg. Karlsböck: She herself does not know what that is!]] Yeah, right now! I thought: What does the lady do, what is her field of duty, what should she serve for the Austrian population? I knew she was a “necessity” – we have heard it now, the magic word is “Mirroration” – when there was a State Secretary in the Ministry of Finance. This is now obsolete, because the financial sector is now in a strong hand. And now really is the question: What we need, then, Mrs Mag. Steßl? - Excuse me, if I ask you this, it's about tax money. They were even in the financial resort. And I remember as a colleague, Mrs. Mag. In the Committee of Inquiry there was a lot of contribution from the SPÖ Group – she was a replacement member at the time – in order to carry forward the investigation in this House. As a lawyer, she has asked herself quite a question of know-how. That was my personal impression. But this personal impression does not answer the question: What is she now State Secretary at the Federal Chancellor's Office? Now I've been thinking about it. Yes, the Federal Chancellor must be represented. Then I thought: There is a great danger that the Secretary of State will probably become Mr Faymann's grief number. It cannot handle everything, it must also be active internationally. The former Secretary of State Ostermayer is now advanced, he is now also a minister, and the Federal Chancellor needs a representation. Now I've been thinking: Well, the poor woman Mag. Steßl must now represent and possibly – I do not want to repeat the word. Well, today I'm smarter. Mrs. State Secretary, I've been smarter for about 30 minutes. You have at least a broad field of activity, even after the German Chancellor has made a statement. Only: As you will then be politically shaping in this field of action, that is the further question mark. What do you want in the administrative reform? - I would have liked to know. Parliament would have liked to know. There has been a survey in Parliament, which has then been turned off, there has also been a subcommittee. You would probably have a partner in the administrative reform, many partners in us, because we all know that the word “administrative reform” does not want to hear much of the population at all. This is, as it were, the most stressed term that always ends in the Nirvana, in the Nirvana of the competences of the federal states. And that's because I don't know where you want what you want, I'll give you advice. [[The speaker holds a book entitled “Citizens Active State: Public Management and Governance”.]] Mr. Vice-Chancellor, now he's here – we exchange books today. [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: I have that too!]] I also know you got it from the former President of the National Council, Heinrich Neisser. He'll take care of your training. I organized it last year in September, got it gifted and already read it. That's why I can give it to you very much: ‘Citizen's active state: Public management and governance’. What do you understand? – Citizen-nearly state, one can understand, that is a concern to people and that is what they want. An active state – this is where the question arises: Where should it become active? - We have to agree. The Minister of Finance, including Mr Vice-Chancellor, has raised the role of the State today in a very special way. Read this book: It is about targeted taxes, efficiency orientation. It is about the clear definition of objectives. It's about a value discussion. It is a question of civil participation, a motivating of the administration as well. It is also about evaluating transparency. This is an essential task in which we need to work more together in the administration and in Parliament, in the sense of transparency and control. These are also quality criteria of modern administration, modern management. There is also an EU White Paper on this. Read it once! Read it! There are many democratic fundamental values that have to do with the comprehensible use of tax money, transparency and control. We were also in the Court of Auditors. Mrs State Secretary, I would have liked to know what happened to the Court of Auditors' reform proposals with the announcement – it was Spindelegger who made this happen. It has been said that there is a discussion about the summer – the new Minister of Finance is not yet here or is gone again – in which the President of the Court of Auditors will then be given further information on how to save, improve, control, and how transparency prevails. They were still State Secretary at the time. Did you do that in the summer? – That was actually your job in your reflection function. You could carry out this task with a new life if you were to take up this in your new position as Secretary of State at the Federal Chancellor's Office. I hope that your parliamentary memory will not, so to speak, completely float or be completely dissociated in view of the fact that you
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e15321	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to come to the conclusion.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e15337	I would like to say briefly: Mrs State Secretary, we are not only a very patient opposition, but also a constructive one. That's why I'm getting it. Today, as the field of action of this book, it is also my hand, but only my loan, for it belongs to Parliament. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e15364	Mr Hagen. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e15385	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! The Minister for Finance is not in the house at the moment, but I promised him that he would receive a motion for a resolution which would enable him to convince his party colleagues and the colleagues of the other government team so that he could continue to implement what he said in his speech and which corresponded to this request. We're happy to help him. That is why I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, that would be a reasonable thing. The Minister of Finance has already spoken in this direction. I cordially invite him. We like to support him. I now come to the Secretary of State Steßl, who is responsible for administration and officials. I am with us the speaker for the officials and now I would like to address a few things. The colleague, Mr Moser, asked what the tasks of Mrs. State Secretary were. I'd like to put it a little different: We have heard the tasks of Mrs. State Secretary, who is quite clear, and we also know the tasks of Chancellor Ostermayer. But I wonder what kind of tasks does the Federal Chancellor have at all? Mr. Federal Chancellor, if you are delegating everything if you give up everything, what are you still working? – Ladies and gentlemen, this is certainly a legitimate question. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ostermayer's Minister of the Chancellor's Office used to have the agents of the officials and know – I have often been in conversation with him – our position regarding an executive service law. Mrs State Secretary, I will now come to you in the future. I think we're gonna be good at talking to each other. I am glad that I also trust you that you will implement this. I have to say quite honestly, I have great confidence in you and great hope that you will also make some progress. Mr Ostermayer will be glad that he's gone now, because I've bitten him a bit on this point. [[Federal Minister Ostermayer: If the bite is, don't bite!]] The point is that I have already submitted this request to the committees, I have also tabled the proposal for counter-financing as an application. Now it's about negotiating. Mr Ostermayer will be glad that he no longer has to negotiate with me, because I think I would have done well now. Ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary for us to have our own executive service law for the executive. That's a clear reason. We executive officials today have the same right of service as teachers, the normal administrative officials, all of whom have no such intrusive service as the executives. That's only in Austria. In other countries, the Executive has its own executive service right, which has been specifically established on the tasks and requirements of the Executive. We do not have that, and therefore the executive officials in Austria are simply the poorest within Europe. We have the highest retirement age in Europe among executives, we have one of the lowest salaries in this area, but most requirements. The administrative burden, Mrs. State Secretary, is enormous. That is, some executive officers are 70 percent in the writing room instead of being on the street. The Federal Minister knows that. We need to get there and simplify the administration. This is a joint work, a common matter between the Ministry of the Interior and now the Secretariat of State. I think there's a lot to do. I'm happy to give you the support. I've been an executive officer for 25 years, I know the requirements, I know the problems. I've also been in politics for a little while, so I know what I'm talking about, I've experienced a lot, I've always been on the front line. So you have someone with me who likes to support you. Administrative reform should not only be a bottle, as has already been mentioned here, but one should really accept it and implement it. We from the Stronach team are always there to support with good suggestions. We bring in good ideas, we give you the hand. They only have to accept them, and then we can work reasonablely for Austrian taxpayers and provide a reasonable solution for Austrian citizens. I offer this to you and wish you all the best in your office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e15447	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e15520	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Alm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e15542	Madam President, first of all I would like to congratulate you on your election. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Mrs State Secretary, in particular! I've already been a bit afraid that the interaction behind my back is going to decrease a little, but I've heard that you've also got e-government and ICT agendas, so I don't need to give this fear any more food. However, you have now slipped a little further to the left, so I'm not going to hear you anymore. [[refering to the seat of Secretary of State Steßl at the very end of the government bank]] They will not harm me if I say that there is the impression that this State Secretariat was not necessarily created for reasons of content, but rather to give a Secretary of State a task without a portfolio. We do not need to worry now that you do not have enough meaningful tasks to perform, you have spoken of reflection functions, of coordination. But that's not particularly ambitious. There the SPÖ could have thought a little more, like the coalition partner, for example, what could have been taken out of this State Secretariat. I'll give you an idea, a keyword: Internet. It would be urgently necessary and there would have been an opportunity to pool this cross-sectional matter into a State Secretariat. No one currently feels responsible for this issue. The former Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology feels only in part responsible for this topic. When it comes to broadband billions, yes. That's where we picked up € 2 billion from mobile phones through the auction, € 1 billion. The € has just gone to the hypo, the other billion has been reset by a bookkeeping trick, so to speak, so that the deficit does not increase even more. The Minister or ex-Minister has made every effort to recover this money, which, at any rate, has a certain provision. So far, so good. She has tried to lead it out of the ribs to the Minister for Finance, who is no longer there. But in terms of content, if we go a little deeper, it doesn't feel responsible anymore. Two months ago I submitted a request concerning the operation of gate servers; also a subject that has to do with the Internet. It has needed seven weeks for an answer, and the answer is as follows: “These questions do not fall within my competence.” I do not quite understand why such an answer necessarily takes almost two months. I already know that there is a certain period of time, but we all have already learned that this is obviously part of normality, and the cynical reference to this period makes, I think the criticism of it no less justified. The same thematic understanding of depth as regards the network also exists in other departments, for example in the storage of data on stocks – in Austria unlawfully implemented; Austria has now been forced to change by the EU and the VfGH. Network neutrality is enforced at EU level – in the government programme, you will not even find the word “net neutrality”. Next point: Security. – The topic “Cyber” is also part of the program of the Ministry of the Interior, which is very common there. However, it is budgeted to a very small extent, and not much new will happen in this area before 2016. There is no connection at all in the fields of education and the Internet. There is no chapter in the government programme that deals with network policy, as there are almost exclusively security aspects. Nevertheless, you find no word on the NSA, no word on net neutrality, as has already been said, no word in the context of education and no word for informational self-determination. Instead, risk scenarios are addressed, which are of course important and which need to be addressed, but the only thing you draw is a threat scenario: The Internet is dangerous! Solution You think that the net is something dangerous! The Internet is not a threat, it is a huge chance for people, for the location, it is an economic factor. The network is the largest game changer in the last decades, but active network policy, which accompanies this change, does not play a role in the government at all. You have missed the opportunity to give this subject a certain importance with a place of business. You can still do this: Use this planning site for your own State Secretariat for Network Policy! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e15612	Next, Mr Mahrer will speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e15633	Madam President. High house! Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Values Members of the Federal Government! The Federal Ministry of Science, Research and Economics is an absolute Ministry of the Future. It is a key resource for Austria, especially now, because there is much to do together for a good and a successful future of our country. It's okay. to rethink things for us and to do the right thing, to implement them for the citizens, and for that we should all work hard together. I want to work for this, to bring in my work – on the basis of the right values and with the right goal in mind! You should also know what I'm for. – I want to make a contribution for a modern and a human Austria – which you may know – and I want to work for an Austria where there is a good, sustainable balance between freedom, social responsibility and ecology. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The economic and regulatory model of the eco-social market economy is for me the guiding model for the future of Austria. Austria should develop into a lighthouse in Europe and, ideally, when we work hard to achieve a common balance between positive economic, social and environmental development throughout the world. Yes, Austria is a small country, and that is why we need to think in greater contexts and act in greater contexts. We are a small, open economy. We earn 6 out of 10 € in export, and for us there is therefore only one future insurance in Austria: our innovative strength, our ability to go new, better ways, our competence to think together. And this is a culture of world openness and enthusiasm for the future. I am deeply convinced that we must bring our education system up to date, from early childhood education to all our schools to science and research. I would like to cooperate and help in the department that we think all these areas networked and that the future of our country and its people is the basis for the further development of our education system – and nothing else, no ideologies, no matter where they come from, and no particular interests! For an economic, social and ecologically successful Austria, we need above all a strong, powerful and also a successful economy in international competition. Here too, the challenge and my job assignment are clear where I can support: I would like to help to create more scope for our economy, more opportunities for performance, for growth and for employment. For example, we need to advance the start-up culture in our country and anchor entrepreneurial thinking in the education system. We need to provide businessmen with framework conditions so that they can act unbureaucratically, for example, in order to solve the difficult financing issues that are prevailing today. This starts with crowdfunding at the beginning, goes through private equity, up to medium-sized financing. For this we need, as I also ask for your contribution, a business- and medium-sized policy throughout the country, not an entrepreneurial polemic, because otherwise we saw on the branch on which Austria is sitting: the entrepreneurs as well as the workers together. [[Congratulations to the ÖVP and to Mr Strolz and Mr Köchl]] High house! A future-oriented education system, combined with flourishing science and research, and a strong innovative economy: Together, these are the key keys to making it possible for us to create all the spaces that we can significantly relieve people, as I have heard more often in the debate today, and therefore can give them more freedom personally that what they have worked out and earned can be re-issued and charged according to their own interests. In an economically strong, socially responsible and ecologically sustainable Austria, in which state, economy and civil society – which is a special concern for me to say here too – work together and mutually fertilizing on the challenges of tomorrow, a colorful both-and-and-and-a-braining one, the electorate and Either-or: Those are my goals! [[We welcome the ÖVP and Mr Strolz and Mr Dietrich.]] That is, as I said, my goals! I would like to support the Federal Government for this. I would like to invite you to give me a few advance locusts, and I look forward to working together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e15715	Thank you very much, Mr State Secretary. Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e15739	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr State Secretary! Mr. Vice-Chanzler, today in his new role – I am pleased that you are still Minister of Science, Mr. Vice-Chancellor, and hope that this can also be interpreted in the sense of upgrading – has today stressed in his speech that the areas of education, innovation and the knowledge society are one of the challenges that we must face. I can only underline this three times. I have looked at the list of speakers and I have seen that in your speech, Mr State Secretary, all the political groups have nominated the scientific speakers. Do you appreciate this as a signal for how important it is here in this House for the future of our country? I would like to take another point from your speech, Mr Vice-Chancellor. And that's... They have said that in the future we must continue to live on a good dispute culture, develop further in order to develop solutions with one another argumentatively. – I would like to stress that too. Science policy in particular is an area where we can very well need this culture of dispute – and we both parties too – because we do not always assume the same starting positions. But in recent months and years, we have managed very well to achieve good solutions in the sense of a positive dispute culture. In recent months, we have managed to improve the funding of studies, to take first steps to reform the ÖH elections, to introduce the direct election of the Federal Office, and thus to reintroduce a lot more democracy at universities. I think that we should continue this path of common solutions in the future. It's not that we're just diverting from the goals, that's really not true. For example, we were able to agree or agree with each other that it is one of our essential objectives to work to ensure that we have more qualified young people in our country. This means that we do not want fewer students in our country and that we want to expand the capacities at our universities. There is, of course, an important point. The financial situation of universities. In recent months, Mr Mitterlehner has repeatedly stressed that it is important to provide the universities and universities with financial resources accordingly. In the coming weeks and months, the task will be to establish the service agreements with the universities. ................................................................................................................................................................ This will be one of your major tasks in the next few months, Mr Vice-Chancellor. The Minister of Science, who has requested this, is now also Vice-Chancellor and ÖVP-Obmann, and we also have a new finance minister. I hope that the good sign of good results in these performance agreement negotiations are for our and our universities. Also very important – and I would like to stress that, for us, a very important concern – is the expansion of the places at the vocational colleges and their corresponding financial security, because the colleges represent a very, very valuable part of the training opportunities, the training offer in the tertiary sector. Another point, which is also very important to me and which I would like to stress, is the improvement of the situation of young scientists, namely to improve career and career conditions. We have been able to take first steps to improve the funding of studies: social security. But the improvement of social security for students is not done from our point of view at Weitem. It is about taking further steps to ensure that even in the tertiary field there is no automaticity that the chance of continuing to come there depends on what it looks like in the parent's wallet. The issue of permeability should also be mentioned and underlined in this context. Mr State Secretary! They talked about creating space for the economy. But I would like to add – and I hope you see it that way too: It will also be an important task, a particularly important task in the coming years, to create spaces for young people through improved opportunities for education. I am looking forward to a good cooperation in this sense.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e15806	Mr Deputy University Professor Dr. Däderle came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e15828	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, Mrs Kuntzl, the fact that all the scientific speakers are now commenting on the speech by Secretary of State Mahrer actually means, or one can see it as an expectation that this area will be an important part of the State Secretary. The emphasis or emphasis of innovation as a central basis for Austria's success in international competition also suggests that the most important driver and supplier of innovation are research and science. I too have great hope in the new Secretary of State and wish him much success. It is very much to do in this area. Some things have already been mentioned. Of course, the financial basis is to be secured. I also hope that this will be achieved through the new constellation, even though I agree with the Minister of Finance that we cannot, of course, make a big leap in the expenditure area. Nevertheless, I believe that this area of the future is a very important and important one and that there must be additional resources, especially for the next period of the service agreement. Of course, money alone is not central, and above all it is not the public money alone that can finance research and science. Austria is known to spend a lot of public money on this area, disproportionately much in the EU comparison, and even more in the OECD comparison. That is, we need to bring more private resources into science and research. For this too, I think Mr Mahrer is a hope-holder, especially since he has already expressed himself several times, how to reform the law of the foundation in such a way that more money could flow into research there. Another point is reform at universities. I am not your opinion, Mrs Kuntzl, that we need an enormous increase in the number of students. I don't think our academic ratio is too low. This opinion has also taken place again in Mrs Glawischnig's speech when she said that the decision to live was taken in the third class of folk school if you have two. This is an immeasurable exaggeration and distortion of facts. It sounds as if visiting a new middle school – which might be decided here – or visiting a long form of the AHS would be vital. That's not the case at all. Less than 30 percent of our maturants come from the long form of the AHS, so the New Secondary School is not a dead end at all. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as with the representatives of the FPÖ.]] And it's not a dead end if you don't end up at a university, but make a teaching and then practice a profession. I would therefore like to correct this misconception. I would be more important than mass at the university. But you have to do something for that. Above all, one must reform the trapping place of popularity, which is currently part of our universities, especially through a much too liberal law of study and by many other things that undermine the seriousness and the commitment of study. [[Abg. Kickl: A good man!]] There you really have to see that quality at universities is gaining and that we give universities framework conditions where they can live and experience this quality. Otherwise, we will not achieve international competitiveness in all respects. They are competitive in many areas. Of course, efforts must be made to continue to support young scientists accordingly. There are enough approaches to this through the new collective agreement. You can expand that. In this way one can not only do good scientific Keeping young people in Austria, you can also attract good young people from abroad. The essence of science is also its mobility. That means, of course, we will have to endure it and also promote that our young people go abroad. At the same time, however, we will also have to try to get good people from outside. And for that we need appropriate framework conditions. These conditions also need to be met in the financial field, but not only, but also in the organisational field, where it is a matter of giving universities the necessary resources to be able to increase their quality and not to compete which they cannot exist with these inadequate resources. I wish you every success for this and for other measures, Mr State Secretary, and I am willing to offer my contribution and my cooperation here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e15870	Mr Dr Karlsböck spoke next time. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e15892	Madam President. From this place again everything good for your choice! Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, I have just nine months ago, when the last government was praised, the division of the ministries, namely two State Secretary and one Minister at the Ministry of Finance, the abolition of the Minister of Science and the transfer of two ministries to one minister, highly criticised and called ear figs for the location of science, university and technology in Austria. I am therefore all the more pleased, Mr Vice-Chancellor, that you have taken up our or my request, ended this dispassion and, once again, made some normal conditions, at least in the order of the ministries. Austria is a country of thinkers. Austria is a country of researchers. We are a land of inventors and the gifted technicians. And we are a country of innovation, of which we live. This innovation, which has lived for decades, has given us today's prosperity. It is also no secret that what I am now saying is a statement and a description of the past. If we want to maintain prosperity in Austria, we must ensure that this innovation continues to retain its strength, that young people continue to receive the best education they can study, what they want to study, that the best potential of our truly skilled young people will come into force in German. Without innovation, a decline in mediocreness, a loss of quality of life, prosperity and much more threatens. We have heard today from Mr Finanzminister that there are no room for manoeuvre. Of course, what I have listed here costs money, and with “should we”, “must we” and such announcements, we will not continue. We are “compulsory to taxpayers”, said the Minister of Finance – very well, we are. But we are also obliged to our youth to enjoy the best training. We're out of room today, said the Minister of Finance. - Yes, that's why everything will stay with the old. And it does not benefit anything that has been said here today, it also does nothing if you say that the scientific location is upgraded, we introduce a more formal expertise by having a doctor sit in the Ministry of Health now and a State Secretary comes to the Ministry of Science. If there's no money and everything goes the way it was, we're just not going to go on. The fact is that – that has not yet been said at all today –: We have had three finance ministers in the last nine months. That's a fact. And we had three finance ministers and two state secretaries, if we want to overdo it even further. I'm telling you, that's a mistake. We have already heard it today: the phase of introduction, the stage of development. A standstill has arisen here, and that is why we have made the request to distrust the government here today, even though, as has been said, the formal competence in this area is well recognized. If the upgrading of the scientific location of Austria is not to remain empty words in Sunday's speeches, then an incentive for students must also be set. And there must not only be an incentive for students, there must also be the infrastructure for teachers. Today, as it is so beautiful in Neudeutsche, we have an incredible brain drain, not only in the medical departments, but also in all other subjects. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! You are now Vice-Cancellor, you now have, I think, a greater margin than before, and so I think it won't be a problem, increase the promised additional billions for universities for the period 2016 to 2018. The currently unacceptable access restrictions should also be easier to handle. There is an urgent need for action in this respect, especially as the restrictions previously imposed mostly have been applied at the expense of Austrian students. If we want to keep free access to higher education, we must stop this misdevelopment at our universities in the sense of academic justice and quality of training. In addition, just a few numbers: In the winter semester 2012/2013 almost 80,000 foreign students studied in Austria, which is more than 26 percent of all students, and in the winter semester 2012/2013 alone, there have been some 17,500 foreign students. It is quite positive, although someone comes from abroad, but not at the expense of our students! Nearly 40 percent of all university students at public universities have come from abroad, so we have been criticizing this for a long time. Thus, measures to limit university access have primarily taken Austrian students, while the proportion of foreign students continues to increase. In any event, we liberals will closely monitor whether the upgrading of the Ministry of Science will lead to a return to scientific normality and trigger the urgently needed shift in reform. Mr State Secretary, I expect you to use your lobbying experience in favour of the universities, and - I am not putting it to you, but we as opposition must say that, and I say it in time - as an Austrian learner, as it is unfortunately being muttered back there and there, old ropes with orders from the ministry. We hope that this doesn't happen, I'm not going to put it to you now; we're just saying that we're going to look at your fingers there. We simply cannot afford a continuation of the scientific standstill, neither in terms of the location of Austria nor because of our responsibility for the future of our youth. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e15961	Mrs Maurer has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e15982	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Colleagues! Dear spectators at the gallery and at home! Nine months ago, the Ministry of Science was abolished as an independent ministry, instead, a largely incompetent family ministry was introduced. But not only that, the ministry has not only been abolished, but it has been combined with that ministry, which is probably the worst in conjunction with science, namely the Ministry of Economics. That was nine months ago. At the time, there has been a great deal of resistance, both from the community, from universities, from media coverage, and from Parliament. As a scientific speaker, the Green Group, we have mobilized very much against it. Unfortunately, it did not use anything, it stayed there, it was abolished. If you look at what has happened over the past nine months and how your performance, Mr Mitterlehner, can be assessed, you can see the following: Five months ago, after a hundred days of government, I checked what had happened until then. There has been no interview of you until then, in which They have presented a scientific vision. Today I've been looking at it again: It is still the case, there is no single interview of you in which you are a bigger – Mr Minister – I would ask you to speak! [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: You can't even research! Don't even research!]] I can search the APA very well: There's an interview from you. August in the "Tyroler Zeitung", where you answer questions about access restrictions and study fees. There is no scientific visionary, in any way an announcement containing an interview from you. The only thing that exists is opening speeches, such as in Alpbach, in which exactly what has been described from the beginning, what we have been afraid of from the beginning – I have been there all the time. [[Vice chancellor Mitterlehner: Where you left immediately!]] Could you let me talk to you sometime?- Oh, my God! I find this relatively unkind, Mr Minister and Vice-Cancellor! Thank you. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In the speech in Alpbach, you have outlined what you stand for as a science policy, namely precisely for supplying the science of the economy. We have heard there again about the old idea of surveying on the labour market, which graduates are even needed. We constantly hear from you that more private money has to flow into science, and we are constantly hearing about the applicability of scientific results. What we outlined nine months ago, what the Community outlined as a fear nine months ago, has proved very true. They are the agent of the economy and certainly not science. Last week, there was a change of government. I thought, okay, Mr Mitterlehner, you're taking over the ÖVP, you're also going to be Vice-Chancellor, it's a big place, a lot of work – maybe there's the opportunity to reverse this fatal mistake of abolishing the Ministry of Science. I'd like to remind you of some of the things you said. You yourself, Mr Mitterlehner, said that the look was bad, that it was a bad symbol to put science and the economy together. At the New Year's reception of the uniko, you said you didn't ask for this place. You have repeatedly pointed out in several speeches that you have organized the resorts in such a way that they can be separated at any time, so that the community signals that you want and would do that when it goes. In that interview two weeks ago, I quoted earlier, you asked whether it would be desirable to set up an independent scientific unit, in which research agents from the Ministry of Infrastructure would also be involved: Yeah, that'd be nice. So I thought: Yeah, great, government reform, that's the chance to start a science ministry again! - No, you didn't. Another rumor that is curated was that a State Secretariat for Science should be set up in order at least to correct this error in some way. It was about a research state secretariat and so on, there are several names curated, all the experts from this field, even a woman was called there who could take over this State Secretariat. Unfortunately, this has not happened, instead, there is now a State Secretariat for the whole department. - Okay. I thought that in view of how science is marginalised in public reporting, in the political focus of the ÖVP, this government – and this can also be seen from the fact that, for example, only the Ministry of Economic Affairs is the only one and no longer the Ministry of Science – is no longer a buffer in the ignorance of the subject in itself. But I have to find one with some horror: Today, six scientific speakers are speaking on the subject, on your appointment, Mr. Mahrer, and I am indeed very baff, that you have not formulated a single statement on science policy in your speech. In my opinion, that means: The course continues. They are presented as young entrepreneurs, you yourself do not refer to the scientists. I just hope that this government reform has a positive aspect, I hope, Mr Mitterlehner, you were smart enough to be guaranteed by the Minister of Finance that the university billions are coming. As a science spokesman for the Green Group and the Green Group, we will not forget that this is part of your portfolio and part of your tasks and will continue to draw your attention to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e16040	Mr Ertlschweiger has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e16062	Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at home in front of the televisions! Estimated government representatives! Ladies and gentlemen! In life, everything is not always black and white, and I believe that a differentiated view of things is sometimes very helpful. Therefore, I also express my confidence on my side of the new or the reformed Federal Government in advance and wish it was doing a good job. That is why we are all sitting in this House, the Members of the Government and the Members of Parliament: We are sitting here because we want to work for the people in this country for the population. I believe that many people in this country have the desire and the great hope that this change in government will finally change something, that urgent reforms will be addressed, that the standstill has an end. It is not true that the ladies and gentlemen behind me would not know how red and black do not know how to do so. The problem is that of the chambers, groups, workers' chambers, trade unions and cetera, which have often been discussed. Everyone has to represent his interests, everyone wants something, and the hard thing is to put it all under one hat. In my opinion, that the Federal Ministry of Science, Research and Economics has now installed its own State Secretary with Harald Mahrer is a positive one, as this is an appreciation of the most strategic ministry next to the Ministry of Finance. Nevertheless, I think it would be extremely helpful if the integration of the science unit into the Ministry of Economic Affairs would at last also strengthen the target and output orientation of science and research. That's why we've heard that more often today: We finally need to act better and become more effective in results. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] If Austria does not want to continue to lose ground in the European Union's output rankings – I am once again giving up 10th place in the Innovation Union Scoreboard – then it is urgently necessary to strengthen this output orientation. Only in this way will we be able to finally reopen the Innovation Leaders and not go behind in the rankings. I also think it would make sense to transfer the R&D agendas remaining in the Federal Ministry of Transport, Innovation and Technology completely to the Federal Ministry of Science, Research and the Economy. Why? – Because at last one would have the entire innovation chain in a responsibility and it could be optimally geared to economic exploitation. I can only understand the demand for more money for research over and over again in the last few days, and I only share it with them on a conditional basis. In times of a savings package, in times of a tax package, in times when people don't know how to pay their rent, we don't need more money for research, ladies and gentlemen, but we need more research for our money! This is crucial: We need more results. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Especially the expansion of the Austrian research site is more urgent today than ever. – Mr Rädler, I know you want to go home, but you still have to wait a little bit, I have it right now. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] In particular, small and medium-sized enterprises, the so-called core client of the ÖVP, which form the backbone of the economy in Austria and also of the European Union, must take particular account of this development of the Austrian research site. Why? – Because innovative products and services developed by the economy are the main sources of value creation and thus the prosperity of the population, ladies and gentlemen! We don't have to reinvent the wheel, we just have to do something at last! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Now it is true that our small and medium-sized enterprises are moaning and being squeezed out under the ever-increasing tax burden like the lemons. We finally need courage and rethinking in R & D policy. And we have to ask ourselves the following questions: What does our economy need to remain competitive in the longer term? What do companies need, what framework conditions do companies need in order to have an optimal environment and attract investors? We must offer attractive framework conditions to start-ups, SMEs and other skilled companies in our country. Research premium, tax benefit et cetera, which all belongs to forced. We need incentives to attract companies to Austria, which then invest their budgets in research and development. Only in this way will we be able to increase the location attractiveness, only in this way will we succeed in creating new jobs, and only in this way will we be able to maintain existing jobs for the benefit of the people in that country. In conclusion, I believe that we have a great chance that the Federal Government too will have a very great opportunity to get the car to move, finally to end the standstill and to take up necessary reforms. That's why all the new State Secretary and Minister will be given advance locust berries. I look forward to working together! I see it differentiated, ladies and gentlemen, it is not all black and white. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e16147	Mr Scherak was the last to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e16168	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! Mr. State Secretary! When the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Science were brought together, Mrs Maurer already told me, this was seen with great skepticism – I also shared the fears of the community. However, we NEOS have undertaken that, when things are done well, we stand in the face of the value of things, and we also announce them. Mr Vice-Chancellor, I personally believe that you have done this very well and that these fears have not proved true. I am still of the opinion that the symbolism was devastating, but you have, despite this symbolism, tried to get involved in this context. Now there is a new State Secretariat in the Ministry of Science and Economics. I also have to say that I was a little confused that you, Mr Mahrer, did not report on science policy – almost none at all – but still hope that you will be particularly committed to it. Mr. Vice-Chancellor will probably have less time in the future, as he is now also a party observer. I believe that, despite Mr Vice-Chancellor's honest commitment, there are still very, very many construction sites in this context. I also believe that some good proposals have been made. The only problem is that they are implemented, and I am personally very skeptical. This is not up to you, Mr State Secretary, I believe that we have very similar views in the field of science and that there are many overlaps. However, I believe that the bigger problem is your coalition partner in this respect, because whenever proposals were made in connection with these construction sites, they were resisted quite quickly. My colleague, Mrs Däderle, made a clear point of the discrepancy between the ideas of ÖVP and SPÖ regarding science policy. There are some construction sites, for example, that Mr. Vice-Chancellor said in Alpbach that the demand for tuition fees was not ad acta for him. I then looked at the APA and waited until the OTS of the SPÖ, science spokesperson Kuntzl – it took about two and a half, three hours – in which she gave him a clear rejection. This is similar to the discussion about general school, gymnasium – the same discussion since eternity, nothing moves. Next problem: Studienplatzfinanz. There was once a solution that, in my opinion, was not very good. The biggest problem in this context is that it has now been exposed, and the question is how to explain to the university that there is not at last a new proposal on how to implement it. I believe that this is extremely important if we start negotiations on the performance agreements in autumn. The universities need more money, more money has been promised, I still believe it won't be enough. In this context, I believe that the discussion on non-profit foundations is very, very important. You have also said that a proposal will come from you. [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: 2. October!]] – Yes, the question is whether the SPÖ will support you. I always see this great discrepancy between your two parties when it comes to science policy. In this sense, Mr State Secretary, I wish you much sustainability and good luck. I hope that you will look after science and research in particular. I think the problem will be, you will not get the support of your coalition partner in this context. And this will not change a lot with government reform. This will be in the final effect, as I think, at the expense of those who have least earned it, namely the students and the scientists.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e16211	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strache, colleagues and colleagues on the failure of confidence in the Federal Government in accordance with Rule 74. 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act. As regards such a decision by the National Council in accordance with paragraph (b) of this paragraph. I expressly note the presence of half of the Members of Parliament in the terms of the Constitution quoted above. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the motion for a reluctance to accept it. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Nachbaur, ladies and gentlemen, on 'harmonization of the health system'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Nachbaur, ladies and gentlemen, on 'New structures for Austria: Fair tax tax tax reform for more economic growth without capital taxes’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. The agenda is exhausted. [[18:02:10]] Decision to terminate the 2014 extraordinary meeting
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e16287	I would like to make the following request from the honourable Member. Arbitrator, Dr. Lopatka, Ing. Hofer, Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek, Dr. Nachbaur, Dr. Strolz, colleagues before: “The President of the Federal Republic of Germany is asked to attend the extraordinary 2014 meeting of the XXV. National Council legislative period at the end of the 2nd century. to be declared terminated on September 18, 2014.’ I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a corresponding sign. The request was adopted unanimously. [[18:02:56]] Reading of a part of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e16321	In order to allow for the immediate completion of this decision, I shall, in accordance with a written request from 20 Members, read the relevant part of the Official Protocol so that it may be deemed approved at the end of the meeting. This is: 'At the request of the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Arbitrator, Dr. Lopatka, Ing. Hofer, Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek, Dr. Nachbaur, Dr. Strolz, the National Council unanimously adopted the following decision: ,The President of the Federal Republic of Germany is asked to attend the extraordinary 2014 meeting of the XXV. National Council legislative period at the end of the 2nd century. To be declared finished on September 18, 2014.’ Are there any objections to the version or content of this part of the Official Protocol? - That's not the case. The relevant part of the Official Protocol is therefore applicable in accordance with section 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure, with the end of the sitting, as approved. [[18:04:04]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2014-09-02-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00039_d7e16365	I am still announcing that, at today's meeting, self-employed applications 588/A(E) to 598/A have been tabled. Questions 2316/J to 2352/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council is for Wednesday, 24. September 2014, 9 a.m. and will be convened in writing. This meeting is closed.
